 
•	 Q3 2016 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 General Electric Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 General Electric Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 General Electric Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 General Electric Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 General Electric Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 General Electric Earnings Webcast - Final
•	 Q4 2009 General Electric Earnings Webcast - Final
•	 Q3 2009 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 General Electric Q2 Earnings Call - Final  
•	 General Electric Q1 2006 Earnings Call - Final  
•	 General Electric Q4 2005 Earnings Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q1 2003 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q3 2002 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q2 2002 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2002 General Electric Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,816 words
   PD
21 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Ellen, and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and thanks for joining our third-quarter earnings call. Today I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Earlier today, we posted the press release, presentation, and supplemental on our investor website at www.GE.com/investor.

As a reminder, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements can change as the world changes.

With that, I'll turn it over to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Hey, thanks, Matt. GE had a good quarter in a slow growth environment. We continue to see challenges in the resource sector as customers adjust to a lower price environment.

Globally, growth continues, but at a low level. There is sufficient opportunity out there to achieve our goals. At the same time, we plan to control our costs even tighter as we navigate this environment.

GE grew organically by 1% and EPS grew by 10%. Segment profit grew by 1% year-to-date, ex-FX. Industrial margins were up 40 basis points, again excluding foreign exchange.

CFOA was $8 billion, including $2.9 billion of industrial cash flow. We end the quarter with $319 billion of backlog, and we accomplished our financial goals despite the impact of $0.04 per share in foreign exchange headwinds year-to-date.

We continue to execute our capital allocation plan. We have virtually completed our pivot in financial services, with $193 billion of signings.

Year-to date, we've returned $24.6 billion to investors through dividends and buyback. For the year, we're increasing the buyback by $4 billion, from $18 billion to $22 billion, and total cash returned to investors will be at least $30 billion for the year.

We continue to invest in the Company. In the quarter, we announced investments in additive manufacturing, digital platforms, and wind turbine supply chain. These will add to earnings in 2018 and position the Company in fast-growth markets in the future.

Orders were $26.9 billion, down 6%. Alstom orders were $5.2 billion, and backlog is up $3.2 billion since the acquisition. Overall, backlog is up 6% versus a year ago, with service backlog up 11%.

We had substantial strength in Renewables, Healthcare, and Power. Renewables grew by 59%, including our first substantial offshore order at $600 million and a $400 million order to repower the installed base.

Healthcare HCS equipment had its strongest orders growth in five years at 12%. This includes 12% growth in the United States and 15% in China.

Aviation service orders were up 10%, and growth market orders were up 21%.

Oil & Gas orders were down 21% in the quarter. There are still pockets of growth. Our Middle East orders grew by 5%, and Latin America was up by 19%. We ended the quarter with $22 billion of backlog, and we expect fourth-quarter orders to be about flat with a year ago.

AGPs remain on track for 135 to 150 in the year. Software orders were about $900 million in 3Q, up 11%; and at $2.8 billion they're up 15% year-to-date.

We saw significant growth in Power, up 72%; Oil & Gas up 10%; Transportation up 21%; and Grid up 43%. Customer wins include [Gairdow], NEC, Aramco, Haier, and CN.

We continue to build our foundation for growth. We have 243 partners on Predix and are on track for 20,000 developers by year-end.

Our productivity at $500 million is already above target and should be strong for the year. We see orders strengthening in the fourth quarter versus a year ago, and that will position us for 2017.

GE is executing well in the environment. As I said earlier, organic growth was up 1%. Excluding Oil & Gas, organic revenue growth is up 6% in the third quarter and 4% year-to-date.

We had several strong business performances. Power was up 7% with 15% growth in equipment; Renewables grew 44%; Aviation Service was up 12%.

And the GE Store contributed to growth, with vertical financings which supported $4.2 billion of Industrial orders. Meanwhile, GE2GE revenue, which is a measure of internal pullthrough, grew by 25%.

Organic growth is accelerating through the year. The fourth quarter will be at 4%, and for the year we expect organic growth to be 0% to 2%.

We continue to see a drag in Oil & Gas, with revenue down 15% to 20% for the year. The rest of GE will grow at a healthy pace.

The Oil & Gas team is executing well in a tough environment. We continue to aggressively manage costs while positioning for long-term growth. The business fully leverages the GE Store and will come out of the cycle stronger.

Core margins grew by 40 basis points and gross margins grew by 110 basis points, ex-FX. We've seen solid work in value gap and cost productivity, slightly offset by mix.

Service margins again led the way, with 220 basis points of expansion. Our analytical tools have been critical to enhance service margins.

Our businesses have done a nice job in a slow growth environment. For instance, Transportation grew margins by 90 basis points despite lower volume.

We continue to invest in the growth and competitiveness of GE. Alstom remains on track, and we're building backlog and winning key new orders. We're on track for synergies of $1.2 billion in the year.

Year-to-date, Alstom orders are $12.7 billion, up 13% versus 2015. We pulled forward more restructuring, which should help 2017 and beyond.

Alstom remains on track to deliver $0.05 EPS this year ex-FX, and we expect to complete purchase accounting in the fourth quarter by booking an incremental reserve of $2.4 billion to cover customer contracts and legal and tax reserves. This is consistent with expectations. The net present value of synergies is more than $21 billion, and Alstom will generate a mid-teen return over time.

In September, we announced the acquisition of SLM and Arcam, which will position GE as a leader in the fast-growth market for additive manufacturing equipment while opening up potential for an additional $3 billion to $5 billion of productivity over time.

Also in September we announced the acquisition of Meridium, a leader in asset performance management. This completes our suite of maintenance optimization, machine and equipment health, and reliability management. It's a perfect fit for our digital strategy and will accelerate our growth.

Last week we announced the acquisition of LM Wind Power. This gives us enhanced margins and technical expertise. In addition, this opens up growth in emerging markets. LM and GE have a deep pipeline of innovation which will lead the industry.

We had a pretty good quarter for cash. Industrial CFOA was $2.9 billion, up 13% from 2015. Year-to-date free cash flow was $17.3 billion, including a capital dividend of $5 billion. We received an additional $2 billion dividend from Capital in October.

In the fourth quarter, we expect Industrial CFOA to be more than $9 billion based on higher earnings and lower working capital. In addition, we should receive a $4 billion dividend from GE Capital. So for the year, we expect free cash flow plus dispositions to be more than $32 billion above our goal.

As I noted earlier, we continue to invest in long-term growth and competitiveness, and with the improved outlook on CFOA we plan to boost our buyback by $4 billion to $22 billion, with the total cash return to investors expected to be $30 billion including the dividend.

Our balance sheet remains very strong. All of our cash metrics look solid for the year. So now let me turn it over to Jeff to go through operations.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the third-quarter summary.

Revenues of $29.3 billion, up 4% in the quarter. Industrial revenues were up 5% to $26.7 billion. You can see on the right side that Industrial segments were up 4% reported and up 1% organic. Alstom revenue in the quarter was $3.2 billion.

Industrial operating + Verticals EPS was $0.32 in the quarter, up 10%. The operating EPS number of $0.27 includes other continuing GE Capital activity, including headquarter runoff and exit-related items that I'll cover on the GE Capital page.

Continuing EPS of $0.23 includes the impact of nonoperating pension. The net EPS of $0.22 includes discontinued operations.

Total disc-ops impact was a charge of $103 million in the quarter, driven by GE Capital exit costs.

As Jeff said, we generated $18.3 billion of CFOA year-to-date, up from $6.5 billion last year, driven by increased dividends from GE Capital. Excluding deal taxes, Industrial CFOA was $3.4 billion year-to-date, down 45%.

We generated $2.9 billion of Industrial CFOA in the third quarter, which was up 13% versus last year. This was driven primarily by working capital improvements in receivables and inventory. Progress collections was a usage in the quarter on lower awards, principally in Oil & Gas.

Free cash flow was up 17%, and free cash flow conversion was 93% in the quarter. Adjusting free cash flow conversion for the mismatch of gain income and cash, which is included in other investing activities, free cash flow conversion would be 99%.

Alstom generated $25 million of CFOA in the quarter.

As Jeff said earlier, we now expect GE Capital dividends for the year of $20 billion versus the planned $18 billion. Fourth quarter will be another large Industrial cash quarter on $5 billion of cash income and continued progress on working capital, principally around inventories related to higher volume of deliveries in the quarter.

Industrial CFOA is expected to generate between $11 billion and $12 billion of cash for the total year.

The tax rate was 11% in the quarter, bringing the year-to-date tax rate to 13%. In the third quarter, we adopted an accounting standards change related to the treatment of tax benefits on stock option exercises, which had a favorable impact on our 3Q tax rate of about 2 points. The impact on our year-to-date rate was about 1 point.

Given that change, we now expect the total-year GE rate to be in the low teens versus the mid-teens rate we guided to previously. The GE Capital tax rate was favorable, reflecting a tax benefit on pretax continuing loss.

On the right side are the segment results. As I mentioned, Industrial segment revenues were up 4% reported and up 1% organically. Excluding Oil & Gas, which has clearly been challenging, organic revenue was up 6% with strength in Power, Renewables, Aviation, and Healthcare.

Industrial segment op profit was down 5% reported and down 3% organically. The organic number excludes the impact of $14 million of FX translation headwind.

We also had an additional $128 million of negative FX transactional impacts year-over-year, which is not adjusted for in the organic calculation. This is related to remeasurement and mark-to-market on open hedges, principally in Oil & Gas, Renewables, and Energy Connections. Excluding all FX, organic operating profit was flat in the quarter.

Including corporate operating costs, Industrial op profit was down 6% reported, and down 4% organically, and flat excluding all FX.

As you see at the bottom of the page and as I mentioned earlier, Industrial operating + Vertical EPS was $0.32, up 10%, with Industrial operating EPS up 8%. On a year-to-date basis, we delivered $1.03 of EPS, which was up 29% versus the prior year.

Next on Industrial other items for the quarter, we had $0.05 of charges related to Industrial restructuring and other items that were taken at Corporate. Charges were $683 million on a pretax basis, with $200 million related to Alstom synergies investments that we've made to drive results. $100 million related to continued cost-out actions in Oil & Gas and actions taken in Lighting and other segments.

We also closed the Asset Management transaction in the quarter resulting in a $400 million pretax gain. This gain was partially offset by a charge associated with the anticipated sale of our majority share in a nonstrategic business in Aviation that makes aero structures. The net gains for the quarter were $0.02.

At the bottom of the page, you can see the profile for 2016. We continue to expect gains and restructuring to offset for the year at about $0.24, both in earnings and charges.

Next, I'll cover the segments. First is Power. Power orders in the quarter totaled $7.5 billion, up 56%, including Alstom. Excluding Alstom, orders were $4.7 billion, down 3%. Core equipment orders were flat at $1.7 billion.

Gas Power System orders were higher by 6%, driven by aero and gas turbines, offset partially by Distributed Power resets. We booked 36 aeroderivative units in the quarter versus 26 last year on strong demand in sub-Saharan Africa and Argentina.

Gas turbine units were 11 versus 22 a year ago. Although the number of units was lower, the dollar value of the orders were up 10% on much larger units, principally the H, with six units ordered versus four last year. We have 33 H's in backlog and received orders for 50 inception to date on the program.

One of the H orders in the quarter for three units was full scope and included additional Alstom scope totaling $760 million. We continue to see a real opportunity for growth and equipment pullthrough between GE and the Alstom business.

Core equipment backlog grew 34% versus last year.

Core service orders of $3 billion were lower by 4% on lower Power Services, driven by no repeat of a large flange upgrade in Japan last year, and timing on 10 AGP orders. AGP orders in the quarter were 24 versus 22 last year. We have booked 50% of the 10 AGPs that moved to the fourth quarter as of this call and are still on track for the year for 135 to 150 AGPs in total.

Alstom orders in the quarter were $2.8 billion. Equipment orders totaled $2 billion, including $1.1 billion for the Hinkley Point UK power project. We also booked another three HRSGs and three steam turbines related to the full-scope H ones I mentioned earlier.

Alstom service orders were just under $900 million. Alstom backlog ended the quarter at $17.7 billion, which is up 15% since the acquisition, with equipment up 49% and services down slightly.

Power revenue in the quarter totaled $6.5 billion, up 37%. Core GE revenue of $5.1 billion was higher by 7%.

Core equipment revenue of $2 billion grew 15%, driven by Gas Power Systems, higher by 16%. We shipped 30 gas turbines including seven Hs versus 16 a year ago.

Aero units were higher by 9 versus last year. Core services revenues of $3.1 billion grew 2% on outage, volume and upgrades. We shipped 28 AGPs in the quarter versus 22 a year ago.

Alstom revenue in the quarter totaled $1.5 billion, with $530 million of equipment and $920 million of service revenues.

Operating profit in total was just shy of $1.2 billion, with core op profit of $1.1 billion and Alstom op profit of $91 million. Core earnings were higher by 3% on positive value gap and volume, partly offset by the mix impact of seven Hs versus zero last year. The Hs we shipped in the third quarter were profitable, but drove a 70 basis point margin contraction in the quarter.

The $91 million of Alstom earnings included a $16 million FX headwind. Through the third quarter, the team has delivered $650 million of Alstom synergies versus the $777 million total-year target that we shared with you last year, and the business is delivering on its H profitability in the second half. For the year, we expect to ship 25 H turbines and about 110 to 115 gas turbines in total.

Next up is Renewables. Orders in the quarter totaled $3 billion, up 59%. Core orders, excluding Alstom, of $1.9 billion grew 3%.

Core orders are driven by large service orders for $400 million associated with repowering and upgrading existing units, offset partly by fewer new unit orders of 592 turbines versus 821 a year ago. Over 90% of the new unit orders were the large, new machines.

We expect fourth-quarter orders to be strong as the final fully qualified US PTC orders are placed. Repowering, upgrades, and new units provide a strong outlook for the fourth quarter and the future.

Alstom orders in the quarter totaled $1 billion, driven by a large offshore wind win in Germany of over $600 million and $400 million of hydro orders. Backlog finished the quarter at $12.9 billion.

Revenues of $2.8 billion grew 66% with core GE revenues of $2.4 billion, higher by 43%. The business shipped 970 wind units versus 735 wind units in the third quarter of last year. Alstom revenue totaled $381 million in the quarter.

Operating profit of $202 million was up 16%, with the core business higher by 22% driven by higher volume offsetting negative foreign exchange.

Op profit rate was down 150 basis points excluding Alstom, reflecting new product mix and $58 million of negative foreign exchange versus last year. We continue to improve margins on the new 2-megawatt machine.

Alstom synergies in the quarter totaled $46 million, and Alstom op profit was a loss of $12 million. For the year, we now expect to ship 3,000 to 3,200 wind turbines versus the 3,000 we had previously communicated to you.

Next on Aviation, global passenger air travel continues to see strong growth, despite a slight increase in capacity relative to demand. Year-to-date August traffic was up 5.8% with strength in both domestic and international markets. Air freight volumes were up 1.4% August year-to-date with FTKs growing 3.9% year-over-year versus last year.

Orders in the quarter were $6.2 billion, down 6%. Equipment orders of $2.1 billion were down 27% on lower commercial engine orders, driven by 9X, GE90, and GEnx.

In the quarter we booked $1.4 billion of new engine orders including about $400 million in LEAP, $250 million of CFM, and $350 million of GEnx. Military equipment orders of $204 million were up sharply, driven principally by T700 orders from Turkey. Total equipment backlog of $33.7 billion was down 4%.

Service orders grew 10% with commercial service orders up 13%, driven by CSAs up strongly at 29%, overhaul up 9%, and the spares order rate up 6% at $42 million a day. Military service orders were down 12% on no repeat of a large Air Force order last year. Total service backlog grew 15% to $122 billion.

Revenues of $6.3 billion were up 5%. Equipment revenue was down 3%, with commercial up 5% on higher deliveries including 22 LEAP engines, while military equipment revenue was down 33% on lower shipments.

Service revenues were higher by 12%. The commercial spares shipment rate was up 5% to 39.7 million a day.

Operating profit of $1.5 billion was up 10% driven by higher volume and cost productivity. Margin rates improved 120 basis points in the quarter.

Third quarter was another solid execution quarter for the Aviation team, and we are on track for the ramp up on LEAP shipments this year. We have shipped 33 LEAP engines to date, and there are currently six LEAP-powered planes flying with two airlines, with departure performance of 100% and some of those planes operating more than 10 cycles a day. We expect to deliver about 105 engines this year.

Next is Oil & Gas. The industry remains very challenging. Some market indicators showed modest sequential improvement in the third quarter.

US onshore rig counts were higher by 15% versus the second quarter, and US well counts rose 3% versus the second quarter. Both rig and well counts remain down about 50% from where they were last year.

External forecasts for upstream spending for 2016 have been revised to be less negative and with 2017 slightly more positive. Flow markets on our Industrial applications remain stable, but Oil & Gas flow and OpEx markets continue to be weak.

Orders for Oil & Gas of $2.5 billion were down 21% in the quarter, with equipment down 22% and services down 21%. All segments saw equipment declines except Subsea and Drilling, which was up 33% on easier comparisons to last year.

Service orders declined in all segments.

Backlog ended the quarter at $21.6 billion, which is down 7%. Equipment backlog down 32% versus last year while services backlog grew 14%.

Revenues in the quarter of $3 billion were down 25%, with equipment revenue down 33%. All segments were lower except Downstream Technologies, which grew 16% in the third quarter. Service revenues were down 16% with declines across all the segments.

Op profit of $353 million was down 42%, driven by lower volume, price, and foreign exchange, partially offset by cost execution. The business took out $245 million of costs in the quarter.

Total cost-out year-to-date is $535 million. The team expects to deliver total cost-out for the year of between $700 million and $800 million, adjusting for cost actions related to volume.

The business remains on track for op profit down about 30% excluding the effects of foreign exchange. No doubt it's an incredibly tough environment, but Lorenzo and the team have executed well on their cost-out initiatives and capturing available growth opportunities as they present themselves.

On Healthcare, the Healthcare business had another solid quarter. Orders in the quarter grew 6% to $4.8 billion.

In terms of geography, orders grew organically 5% in the US, 6% in European, and 10% in Asia Pacific. China orders were up 2%, but up 13% excluding the KUBio bioprocess facility order we took last year.

In terms of business lines, Healthcare systems organic orders were up 8%, driven by strength in Imaging, up 12% on strong CT and MI, and Ultrasound higher by 11%. Life Science orders grew 4% organically with bioprocess and core imaging both up 5%. Excluding the prior year KUBio order I just referred to, Life Science orders grew 11% with bioprocess higher by 22%.

Revenues in the quarter of $4.5 billion were up 5%. Healthcare systems revenues grew 4% organic, with Ultrasound higher by 13%, partly offset by Imaging down 1%. Life Sciences grew revenues 11% organically.

Op profit was up 10% in the third quarter and up 12% organically. Strong volume and cost performance more than offset price and program spending.

Margin rates expanded 70 basis points in the quarter. Gross margins improved 90 basis points in the quarter.

Healthcare continues to execute. Through three quarters they've delivered over $300 million against their $350 million of cost-out commitments for the year. We expect they will outperform the 50 basis point margin goal.

China growth continues to improve, with public tender activity up 20% in the third quarter. And the US and Europe markets are seeing stable growth.

Next is Transportation. The difficult cycle for Transportation continued in the third quarter. North American carloads were down 5.4%, driven by coal lower by 14.6%, petroleum down 23.4%. Intermodal volume was down 3.6%.

August and September volumes did improve versus July but are still well below 2015. We expect the trend to continue through year-end.

Orders in the third quarter of $695 million were down 21% and down 15% organically. Equipment orders of $109 million were down 23%, but up 18% organically on orders for five locomotives versus three a year ago.

Service orders of $586 million were down 21%, driven by lower local parts and mining. Backlog ended the quarter at $19.9 billion, which is essentially flat with last year.

Revenues in the third quarter of $1.249 billion were down 22%, down 17% organically, with equipment lower by 22% and services lower by 13%. We shipped 200 locos versus 259 a year ago.

Op profit of $309 million was down 18% on lower volume, partially offset by positive mix and the benefits of restructuring. Gross margins improved 180 basis points, and op profit margins were higher by 90 basis points.

The business continues to grow its international business as demand in the US continues to be a challenge, while driving hard on product and service costs. We expect total-year locomotive shipments of between 740 and 750 units.

Energy Connections -- Energy Connections & Lighting, this is the first new presentation of the two segments together. The businesses have not changed; we are reporting orders for Lighting for the first time.

Lighting really has two businesses, the Current business and the legacy core Lighting business, which we are in the process of restructuring. The Current business represents professional lighting sales for North America and other key countries, energy management & control systems and software. Reported orders and backlog apply to only the current business, as these are longer-term projects.

Orders for the segment totaled $3 billion, with Energy Connection orders of $2.7 billion and current orders of $328 million. Energy Connections orders were up 31% reported, with core GE orders of $1.4 billion, down 14% organically.

Power Conversion was down 33% on tough comparison to last year, when our Renewables orders were up 4 times.

Industrial Solutions orders were up 6% in a market that was down 4% in North America. Grid orders totaled $1.4 billion in the quarter.

Total backlog finished at $11.5 billion. Current orders of $328 million were driven by LED retrofits, including large orders from financial services.

Revenues for Energy Connections were $2.6 billion, up 45%. Core Energy Connection revenues were down 9% organic, with Power Conversion down 12% and Industrial Solutions down 7%. Grid revenues totaled $1.4 billion.

Lighting revenues were down 8%, with Current growing revenues 10% and legacy Lighting down 22% as the non-LED market continues to decline and we restructure and exit many markets.

Operating profit in the quarter of $48 million was driven by $63 million of earnings from Energy Connections and a $15 million loss in Lighting. Energy Connections had $64 million of profit from Grid and a small loss in the core. The core was driven by lower volume, foreign exchange, and mix, partly offset by value gap.

The Lighting loss was driven by a buildout of our Current business. The segment continues to make incremental progress, improving each of the last three quarters, and we expect the fourth quarter will improve again relative to the third quarter.

Next I'll cover GE Capital. Our Vertical businesses earned $466 million in this quarter, up 33% from prior year, driven by lower impairments in Energy Finance, partially offset by lower gains.

GECAS, Energy Finance, and Industrial Finance all had strong quarters, and overall portfolio quality remains stable. In the third quarter, the Verticals funded $2.8 billion of unbooked volume and enabled $4.2 billion of Industrial orders.

Other continuing operations generated a $441 million loss in the quarter, principally driven by excess interest expense, restructuring costs related to portfolio transformation, and headquarter operating cost, partially offset by tax benefits. These costs will continue to come down as excess debt matures and we right-size the organization structure.

Discontinued operations incurred a loss of $100 million, largely driven by marks on held-for-sale assets, partially offset by tax benefits and other items. Overall, GE Capital reported a $78 million loss.

We ended the quarter with $103 billion of ENI excluding liquidity, with continuing ENI of $79 billion. Liquidity at the end of the quarter was $57 billion.

Asset sales remained ahead of plan. During the quarter, we closed $16 billion of transactions, bringing the total closed transactions through the end of the quarter to $173 billion.

We have signed agreements for an additional $12 billion in the third quarter, bringing the total signings to $193 billion. We expect to be largely done with signings by the end of the year, and we're on track for the 1.1x price-to-tangible book that we originally estimated.

GE Capital paid $5 billion of dividends during the third quarter. In October, they paid an additional $2 billion, and we expect an incremental $2 billion dividend before the end of the year for a total of $20 billion in 2016 versus the $18 billion target.

Overall, the Capital team continued to execute ahead of schedule on all aspects of the plan that we shared with you 18 months ago. We expect to be largely complete by the end of 2016.

And with that, I'll turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. Now let me punch through our operating metrics for 2016. We're narrowing the EPS range to $1.48 to $1.52. In this number, we're offsetting $0.04 to $0.06 of FX headwind.

We expect organic growth to be positive but near the low end of the range, and our corporate cost control and margin execution remain very strong. Free cash flow plus dispositions will be above plan, mainly due to GE Capital dividends. All other cash metrics remain on track.

We're increasing the buyback from $18 billion to $22 billion. This makes the total cash returned to investors $30 billion for the year, ahead of plan. So in a time of volatility, the GE model is performing.

Finally, let me reflect on the Company's earnings going forward. When we launched the Capital repositioning in April of 2015, we established the goal of $2 EPS by 2018. Since then our outlook for Oil & Gas has worsened, and foreign exchange has hurt most global companies, and GE is no exception.

At the same time, the rest of GE is performing well, and we see that continuing in the future. We should be even better than our original plan for buyback, and Alstom continues to perform at or above plan.

Going forward, we plan to drive out more cost in supply chain, program spend around product launches, and corporate. And we will continue to grow our funding on digital transformation.

Incremental leverage exists, with the idea of pushing beyond our goals. We'll give you our 2017 outlook in December, but all of our metrics for compensation purposes will continue to be linked to $2 of EPS in 2018. We're aligned with investors.

Matt, back over to you for questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. I'll now ask that the operator opens the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. Your final comments, Jeff, were interesting. I mean, you're not backing off the $2 number, which is a relief to some of us. But your comment about potentially stretching leverage, can you be a little bit more clear on what that means?

Is there a comfort level around ratios that you have now that's increased versus maybe where you were before? Is there a comfort level around M&A and the stuff that's available? Just give us a little bit more there, please.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, really, I didn't mean to change at all the way we've thought about leverage in the past. I think what I tried to differentiate is the build to $2 has always assumed without leverage that we -- the extent to which we do incremental buyback or M&A, it should push above that point. So that was really the only context for the point on leverage.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, so still a $2-plus-plus in using your terminology?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. No, in other words, we're trying to do the build -- our intention is to not change the bridge the way we've articulated over the last couple years.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, that's helpful. Then just as a quick follow-up, your Energy Connections is not a business I know very well, but the margin is pretty weak there. You said you're doing restructuring. What do you think a pro forma margin looks like in that business once you are done with your restructuring?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, here's what I'd say, Scott. It's really three businesses, and it starts with the Grid business, which is a combination of our legacy Grid business and Alstom's business. That business I think is -- or I think we think is performing -- actually quite well. It earned $64 million in the quarter; it's delivering on all the Alstom synergies that we talked about it delivering.

And then you have the Power Conversion business, which has a higher concentration in Oil & Gas historically than the balance of Energy Connections. That part of the Power Conversion business has been enormously challenged.

We've replaced a lot of that volume with Renewables volume. The Renewables volume is not as profitable as what we're doing in Oil & Gas.

So Power Conversion has been a challenge. We've been breakeven to lose a little bit of money here through the first three quarters.

And then that leaves you with our legacy Industrial Solutions business, which had a reasonably -- a good orders quarter. I mentioned earlier up 6% on orders in a North American market that feels like it was down 4%.

But on execution and revenue in the quarter it was less than what we expected it to deliver. That business ought to earn between $100 million and $140 million a year.

The Power Conversion business, until oil turns around, I think is going to be a little bit of a challenge; and we have a good outlook for our Grid business. So when we think about 2017, we expect the Energy Connections business to be a meaningful contributor to earnings growth when we move from this year to next.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys; good morning. Just to be clear on the new profit guide for the fourth quarter -- for the year, I think the Street's around $18 billion. I think backing into using your free cash flow guidance and backing into what that would imply for a profit guide for the fourth quarter, somewhere in the $6 billion to $6.5 billion range: Is that the right number?

JEFF IMMELT: I think that's about right.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: That's within a row of apples, Steve. That's what we are executing to.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think that's about right.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thank you very much. I just wanted to follow up on the components exactly behind the revenue growth guidance reduction. What proportion are coming from, say, Transport or Power?

And then when you're thinking about the scope for recovery, timing and magnitude, how are you communicating on that in light of the weak ongoing order intake?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I think the revenue is primarily Oil & Gas, Julian, with maybe just a touch in some of the other ones. But I would think about it in that context.

Then, again, I would come back and talk through backlog growing; service backlog particularly strong as being a big driver of organic growth; and the fact that underlying Alstom orders that will play out in 2017 and beyond are actually quite strong as well. So I view orders as being more or less in line with our expectations as a buildup for what we have to do in 2017 and 2018.

Then Q4 I think we believe will be a pretty good orders quarter as well. I don't know, Jeff, you want to add to that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, let me address revenue. When you think about the year, we had 1% organic revenue in the third quarter.

When you exclude Oil & Gas, if you get back to the rest of the portfolio, in the third quarter our organic revenue grew 6%. On a third quarter year-to-date basis it grew 4%. And we expect it to be really solid, ex-Oil & Gas, really solid organic revenue growth in the fourth quarter.

So moving from 2% to 4%, to 0% to 2% is mostly about where we think the revenue number is going to end up with Oil & Gas. Having said all of that, we've not changed our outlook on Oil & Gas op profit in the year, ex-foreign exchange. We still think, plus or minus, that's about 30% down.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen. I just want to go, Jeff -- either Jeff, really -- to the extent that you can provide color on just how to think about the underpinnings of the bridge to 2018. What I mean by that is we're still at $1.50 midpoint for 2016, but we're now looking at segment OP $1 billion lower.

So we've got lower tax and other things going on; we see this change in goodwill at Alstom; I don't know if there's other moving parts. But can you give us any thoughts on the OP ramp in your business to 2018?

JEFF IMMELT: Why don't I start so what I would say, Jeff, if you just context in 2016, I'd say headwind in Oil & Gas, headwind in foreign exchange in 2016. We think some of the foreign exchange actually comes back our way in 2017 and 2018.

We think Oil & Gas is going to continue --as you look forward --to be a drag. Our team is doing a really good job; we are executing well; we're taking cost out. But we're not really forecasting a hockey stick in Oil & Gas.

The rest of the Industrial portfolio really, which grew 8% ex-FX, I think it's well positioned to continue to drive good solid growth over the next few years.

Alstom is on plan. We think the Alstom return still looks solid and the Alstom earnings outlook for 2017 and 2018 still looks solid.

We're going to continue to execute on the buyback, right? So those are the main components.

Then what I would add to that, Jeff, is just a context of driving corporate costs lower, continuing to work hard on incremental opportunities on supply chain that we see, and accelerating progress in gross margins. So I think the way you've got to think about it is incremental intensity around cost that we see in our line of sight, sustained good growth in our Industrial portfolio; some of the FX headwind we've seen should come back to us over the next few years, just by the way the contracts are written; buyback at or ahead of plan. And that realizes the context for an Oil & Gas business that we are executing well, but we're trying to be prudent about how we think about it over the next couple years.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, when you think about that framework where we initially put it together, clearly Oil & Gas is the single biggest challenge against that framework. And we're going to be much more aggressive around costs as a result of it.

The rest of the portfolio I think is as Jeff described it. And we're going to try to be a little bit better on buyback.

JEFF IMMELT: I think the last point, guys, I just would make the point: the guidance range of $1.48 to $1.52 this year, that's with us eating $0.04 to $0.06 a share of FX in that number, right? So I think underlying execution in the context of where we are is still pretty strong this year.

OPERATOR: Andrew Kaplowitz, Citigroup.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, guys. Jeff, you talked last quarter about services order growth rising to the mid-single digits in the second half of the year, and organic orders did turn positive this quarter after being negative last quarter, but were still pretty low at plus 1%. Do you still see a sustainable mid single-digit growth in orders given continued weakness in Oil & Gas and Transportation?

Is the real issue still just the timing of AGP orders? And what are the chances that AGP orders slip in the current environment?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Andrew, I'd say a couple things. Firstly on AGPs, I think we feel reasonably confident about the guide that we've given you on 135 to 150 for the year. So I don't think that at the moment is a point of concern for us.

We did talk about mid to high single-digit service orders in the second half of the year. We still see that in the fourth quarter; we see mid to high single-digit service orders organically.

What's really changed versus what we said at the end of the second quarter has been around equipment, and most of that change in equipment has been about Oil & Gas. We're about $3 billion lower on Oil & Gas orders, and that's really about three projects. It's really three distinct projects that have been delayed or suspended, has changed our outlook.

So equipment is going to be softer than what we said at the end of the second quarter. I don't think there's any change to how we see service orders here.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ: Good; thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning, all. Hey, I just want to go back to Oil & Gas. Last December you guys had talked about more room in the $1 billion of cost-out, which was like $600 million in 2015, $400 million in 2016; and you thought you might be able to raise that $400 million to $800 million. Sounds like you've just said you are on track to that for this year.

But as I start looking at this worsening environment, you say you're going to continue to be aggressive in costs. It starts to really raise the question for me of how much more you can do here, other than ongoing Lean and productivity in terms of real, major thinning out going forward to offset what are continuing really significant pressures. I know you've talked about it generally, but any more precision on that front as we look further than the fourth quarter would be helpful.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, your math is exactly right. So we said -- I think I said $700 million to $800 million of incremental cost-out this year in Oil & Gas. Through three quarters they've delivered about $530 million of that.

They will deliver all the actions to get to $800 million. We might not realize all $800 million, because some of those savings were volume related. In other words, if the volume is not there, you don't actually get to eat the cost savings; although when the volume comes back it will absolutely be there.

I think Lorenzo and the team would say there are additional incremental cost actions we're going to continue to work into 2017. I think you're right; I think the depth at which you can continue to cut cost is somewhat limited. But there is still incremental additional actions that the team can take.

I think our comment on more cost actions generally is more of a statement across the entirety of the Company, given what's happened in Oil & Gas. Around program costs, structure, corporate, there are more opportunities that we're going to run to, to try to compensate for the fact that Oil & Gas is, we expect, going to earn less than what we originally thought when we gave you the $2 framework 18 months ago.

JEFF IMMELT: I think Jeff said it exactly right. And then, what I would say, Steve, is look: our overall context for Oil & Gas hasn't changed. We still think it's a really good GE business, leverages the GE Store, and I have every confidence we're going to come out of the cycle better than we went in. But I think I would echo what Jeff said.

I think we continue to see good opportunities in corporate. We also continue to see good opportunities around our footprint and supply chain.

We've had a chance now to look across the Alstom and GE factory base and things like that, and we see some incremental opportunities that we think are going to allow us both from a sourcing standpoint and a supply chain standpoint; and we'll be able to do that and still do the investments we need to make in digital as we go forward. So I think that's the right context.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning, guys. On cash flow, progress collections I think you said was still a pressure. It would seem like that should be close to bottoming.

What's that going to be this year, and where do you see that heading? And just any other metrics or dynamics you've been working on cash flow-wise in 2Q, just maybe give us an update.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, progress was a bit of a challenge in the third quarter versus expectation. We definitely delivered better working capital performance in the third quarter. Progress is a little bit of drag; that reflects equipment orders.

And that's largely where we thought Oil & Gas might be in third and fourth quarter and where we see them now. We had, as I mentioned earlier, two or three big orders push meaningfully -- meaningful sized orders that would have brought a lot of cash with it.

We're down year to date. The fourth quarter will be better than the run rate through the first three quarters, and we expect progress to actually contribute in the fourth quarter to our CFOA performance that we talked about earlier.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Not going to ask you a question on Oil & Gas; just to shift a little bit to Predix. In your presentation, you say that the number of partners has quadrupled on a sequential basis. Are there any revenue and profit implications from that going to next year? Because it does seem to be running quite a bit ahead of expectations.

JEFF IMMELT: I wouldn't change it yet, Andrew. We'll talk more about this at Minds + Machines in a little while. But clearly on the partners side with Predix, I think we're ahead of where we had envisioned. But we'll update those numbers in the middle of November when we go to Minds + Machines.

ANDREW OBIN: But partners does have revenue implications, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, for sure. No, seriously, for instance, we partner with people; they immediately add developers, and they have revenue goals. So we expect this to be a good boost to how we think about revenue over Predix over both short- and long-term.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I would just add we had a goal in the year to sign 50 partners; we're over 200. That's really positive momentum both from a technology perspective and ultimately longer-term in terms of actually generating orders and revenue.

We're way ahead on where we thought we'd be on people developing on Predix. As Jeff said, all these metrics will be updated at Minds + Machines, but I think there is reasonably good momentum here.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks; good morning, everyone. I wanted to go back to Jeff's question from earlier. When I look at what you guys gave out in EPG, you had about 5% Industrial growth ex-Alstom coming through in the $2 earnings bridge. So we're running this year, call it down mid to high single digits.

So have you guys updated that number? Is that number going to be running closer to 2% to 3% in that bridge?

And then my second question really is around the buybacks. The buybacks are running ahead of schedule. I think you've done about $25 billion by the end of this year of the $35 billion. So is there upside to that number? Thank you.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We will update you on the bridge. Jeff will update you on the bridge when we get to EPG --

JEFF IMMELT: (multiple speakers) to year end.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I'm sorry. The outlook meeting in December, we'll go back through the bridge; we'll go back through all three pieces that we've shared with you before. I don't think we see at the moment any real change in Alstom.

There may be -- we may be a bit better on buyback accretion, which is a partial answer to your second question, and we'll walk you through the dynamics and the organic portfolio growth over that period of time. So more detail to come on that.

On buyback, I think we're absolutely ahead of plan. I think the $4 billion incremental buyback here in the year I think is important.

As you know, we're constantly going back and evaluating our capital allocation plans, most of which we've shared with you, on what makes sense. And to the extent it makes sense to be more aggressive with buyback, we will do that.

On the leverage question, we're mostly focused around M&A. So I wouldn't read through on that that leverage equals buyback. I think that we had -- in our capital allocation plan we had capital available for M&A, buyback, and other reasons; and right now we are being a little bit more aggressive in buyback.

JOE RITCHIE: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you; good morning, everyone. Hey, like to stay on that capital allocation theme, Jeff Bornstein, right where you finished off there. Because the plan had been to toggle between buybacks and M&A depending on the returns.

Are you implying at all that there's fewer opportunities in M&A today versus the attractiveness in GE stock in terms of -- increasing the buyback?

Then also on M&A, maybe some additional color on the LM wind turbine blade acquisition. Is this the same derisking of the supply chain we saw in Avio? Maybe expand on that, why it gives you better strength in emerging markets.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. On the capital allocation question, we're not changing any way in terms of how we're thinking about the trade between M&A and buyback. Certainly with the stock at $28 or $29, the buyback looks quite attractive to us.

We're not short ideas on M&A, I don't think. We're constantly evaluating M&A opportunities. I think just what we've announced recently here between SLM and Arcam, which is an investment that's going to have a huge payback longer-term, and most recently the LM acquisition, we are continuing to evaluate M&A opportunity.

So I wouldn't read through as we're short ideas on M&A. We're just, I think -- we'd like to be more aggressive around the stock given the outperformance by GE Capital in terms of what they are returning to us and operationally what we're able to do through our capital allocation model that was unrelated to M&A and leverage. So, Jeff do you want to --?

JEFF IMMELT: I would just say, Deane, I think Avio is the right way to think about LM. We see good opportunities in the supply chain. We think the next few years the visibility we have on wind is pretty solid in terms of PTC and global demand. We think between us and LM we've got good technology that can really innovate in the industry.

And what we saw on Avio is we were able to keep the non-GE base in Avio, and we think we can do the same thing with LM.

Lastly, your question -- it really bolsters us in China and India and a lot of the emerging markets where we see growth potential for us in the future. So we look at it as a reasonably low-risk investment where a lot of the levers are in our control and we have, I think, a disproportionate upside if we execute well.

DEANE DRAY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks for fitting me in here, guys. Good morning. First of all, just a clarification on the buyback. The $4 billion extra this year, that's not a pullforward from next year? We're still looking at 14, 15 for next year.

But my primary question is on the margin side. Obviously good news on gross margins, good news from price/cost. But what's driving the SG&A inflation, because there's about 150 bps of higher SG&A? So if you can just address those two questions, thanks.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Okay, so first on buyback. Let me be absolutely clear. The $4 billion buyback is an increase of the model we gave you that went through 2018. We're buying $4 billion more stock than we said we would when we gave you the plan through 2018.

On SG&A: in the third quarter, structural SG&A was up 1%. That was 12.6% of sales. Third-quarter year-to-date we're actually down 4%, about 13% of sales.

It was a bit of a drag in the quarter, partly because SG&A was up 1% and volume was essentially down slightly on a calculation basis. So it ended up being about a 10 basis point drag in the quarter.

Other inflation that sits in the Other line is associated with inflation on base cost, and most of that is EOP. There's other indirect expenses that also incur inflation, and that's what you see on that line.

Other inflation ex-FX, if you take out the impact of FX -- so some of those marks go through the Other line in that walk -- was a negative 60 basis points as opposed to what we showed you in the walk.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks.

MATT CRIBBINS: Okay. A couple quick announcements, Jeff, before you wrap up. The replay of today's call will be available this afternoon on our Investor website.

We will be holding the Minds + Machines conference out in San Francisco on November 15 and our annual outlook meeting on December 14. We'll be holding our fourth-quarter earnings call on January 20. Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Matt; thanks. Just a couple points to wrap up.

I think we plan to have a solid Q4 and wrap up a really solid 2016. Looking forward, I think we're being realistic about the environment in the resource sector and Oil & Gas. But don't be mistaken; we still think this is a core GE business and one where our team is managing it extremely well through the cycle.

The rest of GE is executing very well. Alstom remains on track in 2017 and 2018. The buyback is ahead of plan.

We've got a really good line of sight to incrementally take more cost out of the Company and be even more efficient. And all of our compensation plans, whether it's the long-term incentive plan or the AIP, which is in our IC plan, all tied to the bridge that we showed you in 2015 and where we march in 2016, 2017, 2018. So we're aligned with investors, Matt, and I think we are quite confident in the performance of the Company.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. Thank you for joining.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161022ecal0028l
  


 HD
 Q2  2016  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,657 words
   PD
22 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Ellen and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and thanks for joining our second-quarter earnings call. Today I am joined by our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our CFO, Jeff Bornstein; and GE Aviation President and CEO, David Joyce. Earlier today we posted a press release, presentation, supplemental on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As a reminder, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on their website, those elements can change as the world changes.

Now with that, I will turn it over to Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. GE had a good quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment. I would describe our markets in two segments really. The resource sector remains tough putting pressure on our Oil & Gas and Transportation businesses. Meanwhile the rest of our markets have plenty of growth available. The strength of GE is our diversity and we remain on track for our 2016 framework and our bridge to 2018.

In the second quarter, our portfolio execution was a real highlight. This includes GE Capital de-designation, the Appliances sale with a substantial gain and the sale of GE Asset Management.

From an operations standpoint, we had EPS of $0.51 and that is growth of 65%. Industrial EPS was up 35% excluding gains and restructuring. Margins were flat ex-Alstom and up 10 basis points year-to-date and we are on track for our margin goals for the year. Alstom was a penny of share in the second quarter and we are on track to hit our plan in 2016.

CFOA was $10.7 billion and we are on track for our CFOA goals for the year. Industrial operating profit and organic revenue growth were down slightly in the first half consistent with our expectations. However, we are positioned for strong organic growth in the second half and were able to hit our earnings goals despite a $0.03 headwind and foreign exchange year to date.

Looking forward we have no change to our framework for the year. We still expect organic revenue growth of 2% to 4% with strong organic growth in the second half. We expect margins to expand and Alstom to deliver $0.05 a share. We still expect free cash flow plus dispositions to be $29 billion to $32 billion for the year including a capital dividend of $18 billion. Year-to-date we returned $18 billion to investors and we are on track for $26 billion in the year.

So despite the macro volatility, we are delivering.

Orders were $27 billion, down 2%, down 16% organically. Alstom orders were $4.5 billion in the quarter and $7.5 billion for the first half. Backlog grew by $4 billion from first quarter 2016 and sit at $320 billion, a record. Core service backlog grew by 11%. Orders pricing was down slightly versus a year ago. Power and Aviation pricing was positive but Oil & Gas continues to be pressured.

Equipment orders were down 11% which was 30% organically. We saw sustained pressure in Oil & Gas and Transportation while Power and Aviation had tough comps versus a year ago.

There were a few highlights. Aviation had another excellent air show with more than $25 billion in commitments and we have 34 H turbines in backlog. Total service orders were up 9% with solid growth in Aviation Renewables. Globally, the wind markets are strong and we expect solid growth for the year. Our pipeline of activity in the Oil & Gas is improving and we are working on several large global loco deals to offset sluggishness in the US.

Our global orders are $31 billion year-to-date, about flat versus a year ago including Alstom. We have increased Alstom backlog by about $2 billion since the acquisition.

Digital orders ex AGP were up 15% in the second quarter with revenue up 17%. AGP revenue was up 2% and orders were down. We expect 50% growth in AGPs in the second half. We now have 54 partners and 12,000 developers which is ahead of plan. Recently we announced a partnership with Microsoft to put Predix and Azure and with Huawei to expand in China. In addition, we launched major customer collaborations with Schindler, PSE&G and the city of Tianjin. We are on track to hit $7 billion in digital orders this year.

In the second half we expect orders to be about flat. Service orders will be up and equipment will be down slightly and on balance orders are coming in about where we expected.

I wanted to give you a little bit more context for revenue since our plan is backend loaded. In the first half, organic revenue is down 1%. We expect the second half will strengthen to be up about 5%. We see organic growth at 2% to 4% for 2016 likely trending closer to the bottom end of the range.

There are three main dynamics. Oil & Gas faces major cyclical headwinds but by the second half, they have easier comps. We have line of sight to several big projects in the second half which will help build backlog for 2017.

Power is shipping 65% of its gas turbine volume in the second half including 50% more AGPs than last year and most of these units are in backlog. The rest of the Company is sustaining organic growth in the 5% range comparable to the run rate and this should continue in the second half.

We have several businesses that are sustaining strong organic growth rates in the first half. Healthcare is improving with Life Sciences up 12%. China is up 19% and Ultrasound is up 9%. Renewables grew by 27% and Services grew by 5% with momentum in Power and Aviation.

Including Alstom, global revenue grew by 12% in the quarter including significant growth in Europe, India, Africa and ASEAN. Bottom line, we are seeing organic growth accelerating in the second half.

Margins are trending consistent with our expectations. Excluding foreign exchange, core margins were up 40 basis points in total and with segment gross margins also at 40 basis points. We are making great progress on value gap and cost productivity. We expect this to improve in the second half. Service margins are 90 basis points year-to-date excluding Alstom.

Next, an update on our Alstom execution. As I mentioned earlier, we remain on track for $0.05 a share in 2016 and we are on track for $1.1 billion in synergies for the year. We are seeing significant benefits including coordinated technical and cost performance on gas turbines. The system performance is exceeding our expectations and Alstom equipment backlog and Power is up 22%. This improved market acceptance for GE in the grid and steam turbine business, our customers see these as good fits for GE and we are winning incremental business.

As expected, we are seeing strong cost execution and sourcing and plant restructuring. Services integration in Power is ahead of plan. We see significant opportunities for upgrades in coal to improve energy efficiency.

So we really expect to see favorability in Alstom revenue synergies that we didn't count on when we did the deal. We see Alstom favorably so far and expect this momentum to continue. So we have a lot going on with the integration of Alstom but the team is doing well.

Our cash performance was good overall but our industrial cash performance was impacted by a range of issues and trailed our expectations. Capital dividends are now $15 billion, on track for their $18 billion goal including another $4 billion this week. We faced several CFOA headwinds in the first half that should unwind during the year. We have a large inventory build behind new NPI with LEAP, H and wind products. These are all shipping in the second half.

Alstom exacerbates our profile as their earnings, synergies and tax benefits are also back-half loaded. We still expect Alston to be neutral on cash for the year. We expect earnings to accelerate in the second half with substantial improvement in working capital. And finally, we had about $1 billion of comp and tax payments in the first half that won't repeat.

We have returned $18 billion to investors in the first half through buyback and dividends and are on track for $26 billion for the year. Free cash flow is a big metric on the Company comp plans and the team is incented to hit these goals.

Now I want to introduce David Joyce, who will give you an update on our great Aviation business and our wins at Farnborough.

DAVID JOYCE, PRESIDENT AND CEO, GE AVIATION, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. Let me start with a quick perspective on our performance over the last three years.

Aviation has been a strong segment for GE with good leverage, annual growth rate and operating profit of 13% on 6% growth in revenue. Over that same period, we have been investing in the next generation of products and technologies growing our installed base of engines in service, positioning our supply chain and business for the transition in new products, building out our digital services for both GE and our customers while strengthening our operating profit of the business by 250 basis points. Performance has been very consistent with our strategic imperatives.

As we look at 2016, we see another strong year led by the commercial environment which is depicted on the next page. Traffic growth estimated at just over 6% after growth of almost 7.5% in 2015. Freight traffic estimated to grow again in 2016. Over two million departures added in the last year with very healthy airplane load factors across the networks at 80% for the second year in a row. And jet fuel costs which is the largest variable cost for our airline customers estimated to be deflationary again in 2016.

If you look at the trend in jet fuel over the last three years, it is down almost 50% and all these factors fuel profits in the industry estimated to grow again in 2016.

Now switching over to the defense environment, US defense spending is anticipated to be flat in 2017. However, we see an increase in science and technology spending as well as operations and maintenance. Additionally, international defense spending is growing, anticipated to be up 4% across the globe excluding the US.

At Aviation, we are experiencing growth in our military spare sales, 9% in 2015 and 6% through the first half of this year and we forecast our installed base growth to be 14.5% by 2020.

2016 has been a busy year in the military segment with some terrific wins. Just last month we were awarded the $1 billion contract to develop the next-generation fighter engine with our adaptive cycle technology combining high efficiency with high performance situationally. This technology promises 25% improvement in fuel efficiency, 30% in range and up to 20% more thrust relative to today's most advanced engines.

We were also chosen to power the Korean Indigenous Fighter and re-engine the UK Apaches. We are growing our services contracts with all three military branches including the F110 overhaul service work for the Air Force that was awarded to us earlier this year. And we are delivering on some very important milestones in support of the new Saab Gripen powered by our 414 and the CH53 King Stallion powered by our new heavy lift helicopter engine, the T408.

So the impact of both the commercial and military environments on our Aviation business has resulted in an unprecedented backlog totaling $156 billion, up $46 billion in the last three years. Focusing on the critical pieces of that backlog story, equipment up 11% CAGR over the last three years thanks to the successful launch of our new products. Services up 13% CAGR over the same time period enabling us to fund the product transition.

Last week was a terrific Farnborough Airshow for GE Aviation. $25.9 billion of business in total at list price, over 800 new engine commitments and we surpassed 30,000 CFM engines produced at the same time we surpassed 11,000 LEAP engines committed.

So let's talk LEAP. Terrific product positioning, sole-source on the 737 Max, on the Comac C919 and over 50% win rate on the A320 Neos. We delivered our first LEAP powered A320 Neo to Pegasus on Tuesday entering service this weekend. We are forecasting to deliver 110 engines this year building to 1900 by 2019. This year we also reached record levels of delivery on our current CFM engines exceeding 1700 engines. My point is that the rates for LEAP are not unchartered territory for CFM and we are very confident in our plan to deliver on time.

Now switching to margins; of course this transition investment is dilutive as we march down our learning curve and deliver on launch orders. But we have some big tailwinds that allow us to maintain margin rates through the transition.

First is our services growth; 44,000 installed commercial engines by 2020; over 61% of our entire installed fleet has seen one shop visit or less.

Second, lower Company funded research and development. We have completed certification on our passport engine, our GE Honda engine and the LEAP engines for both Airbus and Boeing and we will complete the C919 LEAP engine cert in fourth quarter of this year.

And finally, our digital productivity, in both services as we improve time on wing and cost per shop visit on a $122 billion backlog and in operations accelerating our variable cost productivity and LEAP learning curve.

Only GE has the strength of its installed base to support this magnitude of product transformation creating both the next generation of our installed base and service while delivering for our shareholders today.

So let me finish with a look at GE Aviation as a digital industrial business. First, the impact for our customers. Transitioning to predictive maintenance on 35,000 engines. So far we have experienced a 25% improvement in unscheduled disruptions for those customers engaged in our digital programs.

As an example, Emirates, a big, big GE Aviation customer has realized for the first six months of 2016 a 43% reduction in disruptions and a reduction in planned maintenance resulting in 12 additional days of utilization across their fleet of 777s for the first half of this year.

For our business, it is all about productivity. In engineering, we have the most sophisticated turbine blade designs on test in two weeks versus nine months. We have launched 13 brilliant factories where operations data connected to our data lake is available to critical experts across the business in engineering, supply chain and services resulting in 0.5 point improvement in variable cost productivity year to date.

At the enterprise level, our new advanced turboprop has eliminated 845 parts using digital design tools coupled with additive manufacturing, eliminating engineering hours, drawings, purchasing activities, quality plans, shipping, assembly hours and ultimately reducing cost while improving speed and quality. We are just beginning to understand the value of a digital industrial GE Aviation and the impact on the customers and our operational productivity.

And with that, I would like to turn it over to Jeff Bornstein.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, David. I will start with the second quarter summary.

Revenues were $33.5 billion, up 15% in the quarter. Industrial revenues were up 16% to $30.7 billion. You can see on the right side that the industrial segments were up 7% reported and down 1% organic.

Alstom revenue in the quarter was $3.2 billion. Industrial operating plus vertical EPS was $0.51, up 65%. The operating EPS number of $0.39 includes other continuing GE Capital activity including headquarter runoff and other exit related items that I will cover on the GE Capital page.

Continuing EPS of $0.36 includes the impact of nonoperating pension, the net EPS of $0.30 includes discontinued operations. The total discontinued operations impact was a charge of $544 million in the quarter driven by GE Capital exit costs.

As Jeff said, we generated $10.7 billion of CFOA in the half, up from $3.9 billion last year driven by the increased dividend from GE Capital. Industrial CFOA was $400 million for the half, down 89%. This was driven by a number of known items including our three-year long-term incentive program payout, non-repeat of last year's NBC settlement, negative Alstom CFOA in the quarter and timing on our service billings.

While we planned to be down in the first half, we underperformed our own expectations by roughly $1 billion driven by lower collections, accelerated inventory build and earlier closing of appliances transaction in the quarter than we originally planned.

Fortunately, most of this is timing between the first half and the second half. In the second half, we are planning for income plus depreciation and amortization of around $8 billion, working capital improvement of $3 billion to $4 billion driven by second half shipments and improvement in AR performance particularly delinquency and other timing items such as tax of $1 billion to $2 billion. That walks you to the total framework of $12 billion to $14 billion of industrial CFOA, no change to our framework for the year.

In addition, in the second quarter, GE borrowed $5 billion from GE Capital which will mature in the fourth quarter of this year. This makes a ton of sense for the Company as we already own the excess debt and the borrowing cost is lower than our dividend yield. The proceeds were used for an accelerated share repurchase program launched in June. This helps accelerate our buyback within the year.

The GE tax rate was 15% and the GE Capital tax rate was 27% which for the GE Capital tax rate reflects a benefit on a pretext continuing loss. For the year we expect the GE rate to be in the mid-teens.

On the right side of the segment results as I mentioned, Industrial segment revenues were up 7% reported and down 1% organically. Foreign exchange translation of $148 million was a 1 point headwind and lost revenue from disposition was a 4 point impact. Each of those impacts were more than offset by a 12 point revenue increase from Alstom.

Industrial segment op profit was down 5% reported and 6% organically. The organic number excludes the impact of $13 million of FX translation headwind. We also had an additional $120 million of FX transactional impacts which is not adjusted for in the organic calculation. This is related to remeasurement at mark to market on open hedges principally in the Oil & Gas, Renewables and Power segments.

Including corporate operating costs, Industrial op profit was down 2% reported and down 4% organically. As you see at the bottom of the page as I mentioned earlier, Industrial operating plus vertical EPS was $0.51, up 65%. That includes $0.11 of gains net of restructuring this year versus zero a year ago. In the box we provide the V percent adjusted for industrial gains in restructuring. Excluding those impacts in both years, Industrial operating EPS was up 35% and total Industrial operating plus vertical EPS was up 29%.

Next I will talk about one-time items. We had $0.09 of charges related to Industrial restructuring and other items that were taken at corporate. Charges were $1.2 billion on a pretax basis with about $400 million related to Oil & Gas and $300 million related to Alstom synergy investments and accounting items. The $0.09 was a little bit lower than what we were estimating driven by timing of restructuring projects.

As you know, the Appliance deal closed in the quarter contributing about $0.20 of gain.

At the bottom of the page you can see the profile for the year. We continue to expect gains and restructuring to offset for the year. In the third quarter, we have the asset management disposition and some smaller transactions in the fourth quarter that will contribute an additional $0.05 bringing total year gains to approximately $0.25.

Next I will cover each of the segments starting with the Power business. Orders in the quarter totaled $7.7 billion, up 41%. Excluding Alstom orders of $2.9 billion, core orders were down 11% with equipment down 26% and services lower by 4%. Core equipment orders were lower primarily due to units mixing to smaller aero and steam units partially offset by four additional H orders year-over-year.

Total gas turbine orders were 16 units versus 18 a year ago. Through the half, core equipment orders are up 1% with heavy duty frames up 25%. Core equipment backlog excluding Alstom grew 37% year-over-year to $8.3 billion driven by H technology strength. Our H backlog stands at 34 units inclusive of five new orders offset by six unit shipments.

Service orders excluding Alstom were down 4% on lower AGPs of 24 versus 39 last year and lower aero services. Through the first half, AGP orders totaled 49 versus 55 last year. For the total year, we remain on plan for 135 to 150 AGPs versus 119 a year ago.

Through the half, total upgrades grew 18% to 153 versus 130 units a year ago driven by dry low NOx, compressor upgrades and flange to flange upgrades. Year-to-date total service orders grew 2% led by Power services up 5%. Service backlog excluding Alstom ended the quarter at $54.3 billion which is up 5% versus prior year.

Alstom orders in the quarter were $2.9 billion including $1.7 billion of equipment orders. In the second quarter we took an order for the Hassyan supercritical steam coal plant in Dubai as well as orders for five more HRSGs.

The Alstom equipment backlog is up 22% since we closed the acquisition in the Power Systems business.

Alstom Service orders of $1.1 billion included eight steam upgrades. Alstom service backlog ended the quarter at $9.8 billion.

Power revenue in the second quarter totaled $6.6 million, up 31%. Excluding Alstom, core revenues of $5.2 billion grew 2% with equipment revenue down 5% on lower BOP associated with last year's large Egypt equipment deal partially offset by higher H shipments. We shipped 26 gas turbines versus 24 last year including six H units. Service revenues excluding Alstom grew 7% driven by Power Services up 12%. We shipped 28 AGPs versus 26 a year ago.

Alstom revenue of $1.5 billion included $600 million of equipment and $900 million of services.

Operating profit was higher by 9% in the quarter excluding Alstom core op profit of $1.1 billion was up slightly on positive value gap and cost out partially offset by H mix. Margins on the six H shipments were roughly breakeven and we expect shipments to be margin positive beginning in the third quarter. Margin rates excluding Alstom contracted 40 basis points. Alstom earned $89 million of op profit in the quarter and was higher than planned on better synergy execution.

We continue to see strong demand for the H technology. Our cost position continues to improve on the H and we expect to have positive margins in the third quarter on the platform. We are also pulling through Alston technology including steam units, generators and HRSGs. We are on track to ship about 115 gas turbines for the year with a heavy fourth quarter.

The Alstom integration is also on track and the business will deliver about $800 million of synergies or better for the year.

Next on Renewables, orders in the quarter of $2 billion were down 6%. Orders through the first half grew 29%. The business took orders for 637 wind turbines in the quarter versus 888 wind turbines in the second quarter of last year. For the first half, core orders excluding Alstom for wind were higher by 15%. Two-thirds of the turbines ordered were for our new 2 megawatt and 3 megawatt machines.

In addition, we booked orders for 218 wind turbine upgrades. Alstom orders in the quarter were $206 million.

Backlog finished the quarter at $12.6 billion including $5.1 billion associated with Alstom. GE core backlog grew 26% versus the second quarter of 2015.

Revenues in the quarter grew 28% to $2.1 billion with core GE revenue up 14%. We shipped 856 wind turbines versus 806 last year. Alstom contributed $221 million of revenue.

Operating profit of $128 million was down 11% year-over-year. GE core earnings of $127 million were down 12% driven by launch costs for the new NPIs. Margins in the quarter contracted 200 basis points in the core.

Through the half, the business is on track notwithstanding the foreign exchange challenges. Alstom synergies of $38 million through the second quarter has the business on track to deliver $100 million plus of synergies for the year. The market reception of the new wind products has been solid and we are progressing down the cost curve. We think the outlook for the onshore wind business is very encouraging.

Next is Aviation. The business delivered another strong quarter and David gave you an update on where the market stands. Orders in the quarter of $6.4 billion were down 15% with equipment orders down 37% driven by no repeat of two large 9X orders in 2015 from Qatar and A&A. This quarter we booked $1.4 billion of commercial engine orders including a ViaJet order for 200 LEAP-1B engines.

In addition we took orders for 348 CFM engines, 21 CDF6 engines and 29 GEnx engines. Not included in the second-quarter results as David mentioned, we won more than $25 billion of orders and commitments at the Farnborough Airshow.

Military equipment orders were up 49% driven by large orders from the Korean military for F414 engines and T700 helicopter engines and the Indian Navy for 14 LM2500 engines. Total equipment backlog of $34 billion was down 3% versus last year.

Service orders grew 8% in the second quarter with commercial services up 9% driven by spares up 5% and CSA orders higher by 17%. Military services grew 11%. Total service backlog was higher by 14% in the quarter to $122 billion. Revenues of $6.5 billion were up 4%. Equipment revenues were down 7% with commercial equipment down 2%. We shipped 78 GEnx engines versus 86 a year ago. We also shipped 11 LEAP 1A engines. Military equipment was down 31% as we expected on lower engine shipments. Service revenues grew 16% in the quarter with the commercial spares rate up 3% and CSAs up 20%.

Operating profit was higher by 6% driven by services volume, positive value gap and cost productivity. Margins in the quarter expanded 40 basis points. For the half, op profit grew 11% and margins expanded by 80 basis points.

The Aviation team continues to execute well and as mentioned, we shipped our first 11 LEAP engines or on schedule to ship about 110 for the year.

Next, Oil and Gas; the environment remains very, very tough. US rig and well counts continue to contract over the second quarter. Rig counts are down 55% year-over-year and down 79% from year-end 2014. Well counts are down 58% in the US versus the second quarter of last year and down 76% from the third quarter of 2014, their peak.

Based on the latest industry expectations, CapEx spending in 2016 is expected to be down about 14% for IOCs, 9% for NOCs and about 40% for North American independents. We continue to focus on re-making the cost structure of the business and improving our competitiveness. Orders in the quarter were down 34%. Equipment orders were down 58% versus 2015 with all segments lower. Service orders contracted 10% versus last year.

Backlog ended the quarter at $22.7 billion, up 1% from the first quarter and down 7% from the second quarter of last year. Year-over-year equipment backlog was down 31% but the services backlog is actually up 15%.

Revenues in the quarter of $3.2 billion were down 22% with Equipment revenues down 31% and Services revenue down 13%. All segments were lower year-over-year on Equipment and Service revenue except the turbo machinery business where their service business grew revenues 4% in the quarter.

Operating profit of $320 million was down 48% versus 2015 driven by lower volume and negative fixed cost leverage partially offset by $140 million of structural costs out.

The team remains focused on their plan for about $800 million of cost actions in the year. Through the half, approximately $280 million of benefits have been realized with stronger paybacks expected in the second half of 2016.

Oil & Gas is down 40% organically on op profit through the half and continues to execute against a framework of down 30% organic op profit for the year.

Next is healthcare; the healthcare team is executing well and delivered a strong second quarter and first half. Orders grew 3% and 4% organically. Geographically, organic orders were higher by 2% in the US, 9% in China, 11% in Europe and 17% in ASEAN. Growth in those markets was partially offset by Latin America which was down 9% organically on weakness in Brazil.

In terms of business lines, Healthcare System orders grew 2% reported and 3% organic driven by ultrasound up 8% on strength in the USA and Europe. Imaging orders were higher by 2% organically with both CT and M/I up double digits partially offset by x-ray and mammogram weakness.

Life Sciences continues to grow smartly with orders up 12% organically. Bioprocess grew 26% and core imaging grew 6%. In the second quarter our Life Sciences business delivered its first and China's largest bio park with a KUBio product. We believe these modulized bioprocess facilities will be the future of all biologics.

Revenues in the quarter of $4.5 billion were up 4% and up 6% organically. Healthcare systems revenues were higher by 4% organically driven by imaging and ultrasound up 8% and 7% respectively. Life Sciences continued strong revenue growth up 8% reported and up 11% organic.

Operating profit in the quarter was up 11% to $782 million. Strong volume and cost productivity more than offset negative price and investments for digital NPI and supply chain costs. Margin rates expanded 110 basis points in the quarter and they are up 80 basis points for the half.

The healthcare team is driving technology competitiveness, transforming their portfolio digitally and reducing their product and service costs. The team has delivered roughly half the cost out target of $350 million for the year. The team is on track to deliver or beat the 50 basis points of margin improvement that we set out as a goal for the year.

Our Transportation business continues to deal with a very difficult cycle. In the second quarter, North American commodity carloads were down 11% driven by coal down 27% and petroleum down 20%. Intermodal volume was down 5%. Parked locomotives have more than doubled over the last year.

Orders of $678 million were down 51% in the quarter. Equipment orders of $117 million were down 77% on orders for 21 locos this year versus 120 units a year ago. Service orders of $561 million were lower by 36% driven by lower loco parts partly due to the parking and no repeat of a movement plan order we took last year.

Backlog ended at $20.7 billion which is down 2% with equipment backlog down 4% and services down 1%.

Revenues were lower by 13% and down 6% organically reflecting the signaling disposition. Organically, equipment revenues were up 3% on higher loco shipments, 222 units versus 191 last year offset by lower services revenue which was down 14%.

Op profit of $273 million was down 18% and down 14% organically driven by lower volume and unfavorable mix offset partially by favorable value gap and cost out.

No doubt the US environment is challenging. The transportation team is focused on growing our international business, driving cost out and executing on our digital strategy.

In our Energy Connections business as we have discussed in the last two calls, organic performance reflects power conversion industrial solutions only. GE's Digital Energy business is treated as a disposition to the grid JV. Also as we have discussed, we consolidate 100% of the grid JV's revenue but only 50% of their operating profit.

Orders for the business totaled $3 billion in the second quarter, up 45%. Orders for power Conversion and industrial solutions totaled $1.6 billion, down 2% organic and grid orders totaled $1.4 billion.

Core orders were driven by power conversion down 17% organically on weakness in Oil & Gas and no repeat of a large wind order for converters last year offset by 1% organic growth in Industrial Solutions.

Backlog finished the quarter at $11.9 billion with grid solutions at $8.2 billion. Revenues in the quarter of $2.7 billion were higher by 55%. Grid Solutions revenues totaled $1.4 billion. Core revenues were down 4% organically.

The business is beginning to make progress. Operating profit improved from a loss of $85 million in the first quarter to a profit of $35 million in the second quarter. The core business recorded a loss of $9 million on lower Oil & Gas volume, higher digital spend in dispositions and the grid solutions business earned $45 million in the quarter.

Alstom synergies remain on track to deliver $200 million plus of benefits for the year and we expect the business will continue to improve earnings sequentially in the second half.

Next on Appliance and Lighting, we closed the Appliance transaction on June 6, and as I mentioned on the one-time items page, we had a pretax gain of $3.1 billion which translated to $0.20 of EPS. In the quarter, revenue was down 25% driven by Appliances down 31% due to the sale.

Lighting revenues were down 11% with the legacy lighting business down 23% and the LED product line up 4%. Segment profit of $96 million was down 42% driven by the sale of Appliances and our investment in Kern.

Going forward, we will be reporting Energy Connections and Lighting as a single segment.

Last, I will cover GE Capital. As mentioned earlier on June 28, GE Capital was de-designated as a systemically important financial institution marking a major step in our GE Capital exit plan. Our vertical businesses earned $452 million this quarter down 15% from prior year including higher base earnings offset by lower gains and higher insurance reserve provisions resulting from updates to our models on our runoff long-term care book. Portfolio quality remains stable.

In the second quarter, the verticals wrote $2.1 billion of on-book volume, 75% of which supported our Industrial businesses. In addition, GE Capital arranged third-party financing which supported an additional $1.1 billion of Industrial orders.

Other continuing operations generated a $1.1 billion loss in the quarter principally driven by excess interest expense, preferred dividend payments, headquarter operating costs, restructuring and asset liability management actions.

Discontinued operations incurred a loss of $0.5 billion largely driven by marks on held for sale assets. Overall, GE Capital reported a $1.1 billion loss.

GE Capital ended the quarter with a $116 billion of E&I excluding liquidity with continuing E&I of $79 billion. Liquidity at the end of the second quarter was $56 billion which was down $50 billion from the first quarter driven by debt maturities and lower deposits as a result of the sale of GE Capital Money Bank in the US and the IPO of our Check platform.

Asset sales remained ahead of plan. During the quarter, we closed $12 billion of transactions bringing the total closed transactions through the end of the quarter to $158 billion. In July, we have added $10 billion of closings driven by the sale of our French and German CLL businesses bringing the total to date of closes to $168 billion.

In addition to closings, we signed agreements to sell $16 billion of ENI in the second quarter taking our total signings to $181 billion during the first half of the year. Our price of tangible book on deal signed to date is 1.2 times and we are on track to deliver the 1.1 times price to book we have submitted when we announced the restructuring.

Of the remaining $25 billion assets to go, we anticipate that we will run off about $10 billion of assets where it makes more economic sense to do so. The remaining assets are comprised of our Italian bank, our French mortgage book and other smaller portfolios and investments. That will be largely signed we believe by the end of the third quarter of this year.

GE Capital paid $3.5 billion of dividends during the quarter for a total of $11 billion during the first half of the year. In July, GE Capital has paid an additional $4 billion bringing our year-to-date total to $15 billion, well ahead of our original plan. We remain on track to meet our $18 billion target of dividends for the year.

Overall Keith and the GE Capital team have continued to execute well ahead of schedule on all aspects of the plan. We expect to be largely completed by the end of 2016.

And with that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. We really have no change for the operating framework in the year. There are always a few puts and takes but we remain on track. We will hit our $1.45 to $1.55 EPS goal despite FX headwinds of $0.02 to $0.04 in the year and we expect to deliver $29 billion to $32 billion of free cash flow plus dispositions in line with our plans.

I thought we would give you some context for the Company beyond 2016 particularly given the volatility of our markets.

First, Alstom is on track and I expect us to hit all of our goals. Transportation and Oil & Gas are in tough cycles. They represent 15% of our earnings and it is hard to see them improving in 2017. But at the same time, parent Aviation remains strong. They are 60% of our earnings and we see consistent performance year-over-year. They have very strong service franchises, productivity programs and our market positions are growing.

Healthcare, Energy Connections and Renewables had generally favorable markets and real opportunities for growth and margin expansion. In particular, Healthcare feels sustainable with diverse growth and market momentum. These businesses represent 25% of our earnings and we will continue to execute on GE Capital and Corporate.

So really 85% of our Company is in great shape winning in markets with high visibility and so we remain on track for the 2018 bridge to $2.00 a share of EPS. The strength of our diversified model is key in a volatile environment.

Matt, now over to you for questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. I will ask that the operator opens the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. When I looked at your topline forecast for the back half of the year, considering I don't think the world is getting better and I think that is going to be part of my question for you. But how do we get to that 2% core growth number? Is it just comps in Oil & Gas get easier and that is just -- that provides a tailwind or is there some other something else you are seeing in macro that should make us feel a little bit better about the world?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I will start and then maybe toss it over to Jeff. But again. I think just like we said on the first-quarter call, we think Power really explains the first half, second half split. As you can look in the presentation, the year-over-year comps are better, the backlog is strong, you are going to ship most of the gas turbine units in the second half plus a 50% growth in the AGPs.

Oil & Gas has got easier comps but we are not really counting on that much out of Oil & Gas and then the rest of the Company, the underlying companies mid-single digits, 5% organic growth. So I think it is really a Power story when you think about it and that is really in backlog and that really explains how we think about the first half, second half. I think the world itself, Scott, is no better, no worse so we just kind of see the general trend on markets.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't have much to add other than when you think about Power, about 65% of our gas turbines are in the second half. AGPs will grow 60% year-over-year in the second half. That is a big source of it. Oil & Gas, the comps do get better or less difficult in the second half of the year and we've got about 70+% of the revenue for Oil & Gas based on our forecast of revenues in second half in backlog.

So and as you mentioned, the balance of the portfolio we expect roughly mid-digit, single-digit growth.

JEFF IMMELT: This is really the profile we expected I think.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. My question was just around the margin bridge on slide five. Just in light of sort of input costs and your own pricing outlook, how do you see the value gap item trending?

And then the quick follow-up would just be on the base inflation number there, that was up 110 basis points headwind in Q2, just explain that please.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So a couple of thoughts. On value gap for the year, I don't think we have changed our outlook. We have said we expect value gap for the year to be roughly flat or neutrals for the year with strong roughly $1 billion kind of direct material benefits offset by price and a little bit of inflation on our other variable costs. So no change on outlook on value gap. Value gap in the second quarter discreetly was a positive, not huge but it was a positive in the second quarter.

As you work down that margin walk, the 110 basis points and other, 40 basis points of that is foreign exchange. It is the marks generally on our hedges are moving through that line. Then you've got about 40 basis points of inflation on other base costs including compensation, etc. and then a small impact associated with minority interest in JVs which is about a 20 basis point negative in the quarter.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning, guys. Just two things on digital. One, on the partners, you are targeting 50+ forth the year. A month ago you were at 31, now you are at 54. Maybe just comment on that rapid pace of additions, what are you seeing, maybe some of the recent partnerships?

And then for David, on the 35,000 engines monitored, I am curious how that has ramped so far and are you seeing that pick up and where do you see that going over the next couple of years?

JEFF IMMELT: Shannon, I will hit the first one. Again, I think the momentum from Predix is growing. There is no doubt that partnerships like the one with Microsoft, the notion of putting Predix as early the really analytical platform inside of Asia I think is a big signal to the industry. Huawei in China is another great relationship that will help us extend on a global basis. Big wins like the one with Schindler I think gets us in a completely new industry space for Predix. So I just think what you are seeing is momentum taking off and we are pleased with the partnership numbers and I think that will continue to accelerate through the year.

DAVID JOYCE: This is David Joyce. On the 35,000 engines installed, we have a number of different ways in which we take data off the engines. The newer the airplanes of course the more accessible the data is on a real-time basis and then the older the airplane, then we have to go and actually get the data after it lands. But I would say we are making great progress, we are actually starting to connect data acquisition as part of our services contracts as we take on the risk which is part of the service contract. We are requesting that we have the ability to go get the data so we can do the evaluations and get the productivity for both our customer and ourselves. So good progress.

OPERATOR: Andrew Kaplowitz, Citi.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Can you talk about organic services orders in the quarter, negative 1%. The core services backlog is up 11% so you still seem in good shape for services growth in the back half but with these services order number in line with your expectation given it was down a bit from 1Q's 4%, is it really just Oil & Gas Services weighing and the timing of AGPs weighing on the business and the confidence level that services orders gets better in the second half of the year?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I think sometimes in particular with AGPs, there is some timing involved. I think in the second half of the year in services, we expect orders to be mid-single digits positive. So again, our business model there, 5% organic growth in the first half, backlog growth and our visibility in the second half I think is all quite positive around services.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, I talked about AGPs being up 60% year-over-year in the second half and the total year outlook of 135 to 150 versus 119 last year. That is a big driver. I mean we see double-digit services order growth in the second half of the year here and very solid mid single-digit growth in our Aviation Service business and those are the two big drivers on the service side.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen. I was just wondering if we could also just address kind of the back loading to some degree through the profit lines. At EPG, you talked about 5% underlying growth in the Industrial businesses ex Alston. Obviously we are starting off kind of in the hole here in the first half. Should we expect some op profit growth in the third quarter or does that profit ramp really have to all manifest itself in the fourth quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Listen, We are going to have a very large fourth-quarter because we've got an enormous Renewables and Power fourth-quarter. There is no question about it. We expect to grow sequentially in the third quarter, I'm not giving you third-quarter op profit guidance but I think the variables that we have talked about, Power volume in the second half of the year, Oil & Gas on a year-over-year basis less negative than they were in the first half of the year, we expect Energy Connections to accelerate and we expect the Alstom synergies as well as our own restructuring synergies to really kick in in the second half of the year. We are looking for a real acceleration there.

So that is where we see the op profit in the second half of the year, one. Two, that is why we are so confident that we can deliver 50 basis points of margin expansion for the total year having been flat in the first half.

JEFF IMMELT: I would only add to what Jeff said again, I think a lot of this is a Power story and with their shipment backlog in the second half, their operating profit growth is quite robust in the second half of the year. And I think Jeff, the way you think about the walk I think is still more or less intact from the standpoint of how we think about the Company for 2016.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good Morning, guys. Just a question on de-SIFI and the impact on your appetite for accelerated buyback or more M&A. I think at EPG you sort of said that you were busy with Alston but it just seems de-SIFI came a lot faster than expected and it gives you an opportunity to use your balance sheet. So both if you could address appetite for more buyback and appetite for more M&A in the near-term. Thank you.

JEFF IMMELT: So I would maybe talk about the capital allocation piece. Jeff, maybe you talk about the leverage piece. So capital allocation hasn't really changed that much since EPG. I think we are just looking for the highest return. I think we have a lot of good ideas inside the Company but we will be disciplined about those ideas and it is really for us just making the smart investments for investors vis-a-vis buyback versus acquisitions. But we always have good ideas inside the Company.

And Jeff, on the (multiple speakers) side.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just say, just remember that the $18 billion target we have for GE Capital dividends assume that we would be de-designate. So there is no change in that framework. It happened sooner rather than later which is really outstanding and that has allowed us to accelerate the buy back. I talked about the $5 billion loan we did in the year between us and GE Capital where they have excess debt, excess cash, we took that and we did a $5 billion ASR here in June. And so our buyback through the first half of the year is about $13.7 billion. So we are running ahead of the plan here. Our average buyback is below $30 a share so I think we feel pretty good about that.

On the leverage, the leverage is going to be paced by the opportunities to put that capital to work if we in fact do it and the returns that we can generate for shareholders. And I would say everything else being equal, I think we have consistently said we are more focused on M&A and where those opportunities are than we are on anything else. That will be paced on the ideas that we have.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning, guys. So I guess my one question is a beyond Oil & Gas, your EBITDA is down about 40% to start the year in the first half of the year. You are trying to hold the 30% for the entire year yet pricing continues to get worse. I guess maybe just talk a little bit about your confidence and trying to make up some of the gap on the Oil & Gas EBIT in the second half of the year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Listen, I think this is all about what we talked to you about in terms of restructuring the cost in the business. And through the first half of the year, we realized about $300 million, a little less than $300 million of benefits through the entirety of the income statement around all those efforts, headcount, cost, deflation, restructuring agreements with suppliers, etc. We are still pushing hard for the 800 in the second half of the year. So you've got a real acceleration between what we started and executed in 2015, what we have executed in the first half of 2016 that everything else being equal we expect to deliver an additional $500 million of cost out in the second half of the year.

So if volume stays intact and our outlook on revenue in the second half is roughly close, we ought to be in reasonably good shape. There is some risk obviously that if volume is a little bit lighter that some of the benefits even though the actions have been taken because you lose the volume leverage may not materialize. But I think we feel and Lorenzo and the team feel really good about the execution they are doing around the restructuring in the projects inside the business.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just if I could get a little clarity on Alstom, you walked through the numbers in the supplemental around the $100 million operating loss, $300 million-ish benefit on synergies and the offset on some of the one-time investments to get those. Maybe just talk about where are you seeing the growth recovery here? What is driving that, what do you think is sustainable and how should we expect a little more color there going forward?

JEFF IMMELT: I will take a crack and Jeff, you can add to it. But again, I think if you look at kind of the gas turbine balance of plant activity, Steve, we are already seeing tremendous pull through vis-a-vis the balance of plant. Services, I think the customer reception in services is quite positive and so we are seeing good activity around energy efficiency upgrades, bringing AGPs to the steam side as well as the gas side, things like that.

I think similarly grid - revenue growth which is something that we hadn't put a lot of benefits towards, I think we see grid as being a potential upside as time goes on as well. So I would say balance of plant, more steam activity than we had anticipated, better grid acceptance than we had forecasted and services which was really the way we underwrote the deal in the first place is quite positive for Alstom.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, listen, the team is executing. Through the half, we've got in excess of $400 million of synergies executed so far against a goal of $1.1 billion for the year. That feels good. As Jeff said, the Power I mentioned earlier when I went through the results, the backlog we acquired in the Power business is up 22% as of the first half so those synergies on the growth side are absolutely materializing and we feel great about that. So I think the execution is pretty good.

We did have a cash use for the first half of the year. We expected a cash use for the first half of the year, we hope to be neutral for the year, that is part of the cash recovery in the second half of the year. I would say on par, I think we feel really good about both the cost and the growth synergies we are realizing so far.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just to follow up on an earlier question, when you say growth in the third quarter, is that seasonal from an operating profit perspective? Then with your second half cash flow guidance that kind of $8 billion that you highlighted there, I am backing into something that is around $18 billion. Is that kind of the right profit number that underlies that for the year that underlies that $8 billion and kind of net income plus D&A contribution?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: There is multiple questions in there. Let me start with this, let me start with CFOA. So through the half industrial CFOA was about $400 million so when we looked to the second half we have guided $12 billion to $14 billion for the year. We have not changed anything about that guidance so how do you go from $400 million of Industrial CFOA in the first half to $12 billion to $14 billion for the year. We look at earnings, cash earnings so adding back depreciation and amortization as you look forward to the second half, we see that as about $8 billion.

We think we are going to reduce working capital $3 billion to $4 billion. A big part of that is the inventory reductions that we have talked about partly driven by Power but also to Renewable and our other businesses and we need to be better on receivables.

Our delinquency rates in the first half were higher than we estimated. We think we can get that back on par. So if we just get back to the inventory performance we went out of 2015 with, if we get back to the delinquency and receivable performance that we ended 2015 with, that in total generates about $3 billion to $4 billion of working capital cash flow.

And then I just talked about Alstom, so we used a little more than $800 million of cash in the first half of the year on Alstom, we still expect to be roughly neutral in the second half of the year so that is an $800 million turnaround.

And then I think earlier when I went through the results, I talked about we had some unfavorable timing on tax. That is not an issue for the year, that is just a first half, second half issue. So that is how we have to work our way back to $12 billion to $14 billion of CFOA for the year which supports what Jeff talked about of $29 billion to $32 billion of free cash flow plus dispositions for the total Company.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say beyond that for 2016, we kind of reprofiled that at the end of the first-quarter call. We really have no change in how we see the year.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. I know we have covered a lot of ground here but I just want to circle back to your opening comments about still in a slow growth macro environment. Maybe you could provide some of those geographic data points, US, Europe, Asia, developed versus developing.

And then on the Europe side, I know it is still early, too early to tell but does Brexit pose any unique risk for GE as you see it today?

JEFF IMMELT: What I would do is I would say versus just talking geographically, I would talk industry wide and go back to say kind of Oil & Gas and Transportation which are both really around the resource sector, oil on the Oil & Gas side and coal on the Transportation side, those are tough cycles and those are tough cycles mainly in North America.

The Power and Aviation businesses, we don't see, we see continued Aviation strength. The Power market is okay but there is plenty of growth out there for us to go after and go get. Healthcare is better, not just in the US but globally. Energy Connections, the Oil & Gas stuff is tough but the rest of the stuff is quite strong and we think Renewables is in a very good cycle right now both in the US and globally so that is kind of the mix of the world.

Now if you bore in on someplace like China, the Healthcare business was awesome in China. Our Energy orders grew by more than 30% in the second quarter in China, Aviation was negative but that really wasn't because of revenue passenger miles, that is because we had big orders last year. So we see I would say around the edges China getting better, Europe is stable. And then puts and takes in the rest of the world. So there is plenty of growth out there for us to go get in the second half and into 2017.

In terms of Brexit, I just think Brexit is just another point of volatility. It wasn't the outcome we hoped for but we were plenty ready for that as just another point of volatility.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great, Jeff. A couple of quick announcements and I will pass it back to you to wrap up. The replay of today's call will be available this afternoon on our investor website and we will be doing our third-quarter earnings call on Friday, October 21.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Matt. Thanks. I would just say first half more or less what we expected, position for a strong second half of 2016 with what we have in backlog. I think looking forward, we are again confirming the bridge to $2.00 a share by 2018 and it is really driven by real strength in Power and Aviation, strong turnarounds in Energy Conversion, Healthcare, Renewables, good Alstom execution. And the strength of the GE portfolio I think offsets weakness in the Oil & Gas and Transportation business and that really is the strength of the Company is the diversified portfolio and the ability to meet our commitments even with this volatility.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | china : China | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRICS Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160723ec7m002e7
  


 HD
 Q1  2016  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,420 words
   PD
22 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2016 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and thanks for joining our first-quarter 2016 webcast. I'm here with our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our CFO, Jeff Bornstein; and our Vice President of Gas Power Systems, Joe Mastrangelo.

Earlier today we posted a press release, presentation, and supplemental on our Investor website at www.GE.com/investor.

As a reminder, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. As described in our SEC filings and on our website, those elements can change as the world changes.

Now with that, I'd like to turn it over to Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. GE had a good performance in a slow growth environment. EPS of $0.21 was up 5%. This included $0.02 of headwind through foreign-exchange.

Let me summarize some of the key achievements in the quarter. Industrial organic revenue was down slightly, and operating profit was about flat despite a very challenging environment in Oil & Gas and tough comparisons in gas turbine shipments. This is in line with our expectations.

Industrial margins grew by 30 basis points, up 110 basis points ex-FX, and CFOA was $7.9 billion, a good start in the year. We're on track to close Appliances in the second quarter, and this will facilitate incremental restructuring and capital allocation optionality.

We continue to execute our GE Capital strategy. We have $166 billion of Capital deals signed. GE Capital sent a $7.5 billion dividend to the Parent in the quarter, and GE Capital filed for SIFI de-designation in March.

Alstom integration is on track for our $0.05 goal in 2016. We're more comfortable with the business and our ability to create value.

We returned $8.3 billion to investors in dividend and buyback, and our capital allocation framework remains on track. Importantly, we are reaffirming our 2016 framework goal of $1.45 to $1.55 EPS, 2% to 4% organic growth, CFOA of $29 billion to $32 billion, and $26 billion of cash to investors.

Our performance in the quarter again validates the strength of the GE operating model. Diversity is a key strength during this period of volatility. We're in the midst of a challenging Oil & Gas market, however we are seeing sustained strength in Aviation and Power markets. Healthcare is rebounding.

I was in China last week and saw improvements in our business. Most of the portfolio is strong, and we're delivering.

There's plenty of business out there to achieve our goals. Orders were up slightly in the quarter, down organically, and pricing was flat. We ended the quarter with $316 billion of backlog, up 18% year-over-year.

Our investments in technology are paying off. Power orders grew by 25%. Our backlog of H-Turbines now totals 35.

Renewable organic orders grew by 88% behind the launch of new 2-megawatt and 3-megawatt turbines. Healthcare equipment orders grew by 6% with double-digit orders in the US.

We continue to win in the Aviation market as the LEAP remains the engine of choice and on track for a successful launch. Globally, orders were up 9% in developed markets with broad-based growth, and down 9% in emerging markets in line with the volatility we see in resource-rich countries.

Service continued to be quite robust. Power Services grew by 17% ex-Alstom, and Aviation grew by 13%.

Digital orders grew by 29%. We launched Predix and attracted 7,500 developers in just 30 days. Meanwhile, we continue to attract new customers through additional offerings.

Oil & Gas markets remain tough. Activity slowed again in the quarter and was reflected in our orders rate decline. However, we continue to make progress with our customers, signing the industry's first performance-based contract with Diamond Offshore. We're confident that GE will outperform in this cycle.

Overall, our backlog and momentum support our 2% to 4% organic growth target for the year.

Revenue was up 6% in the first quarter, down 1% organically, in line with our plan. The main driver of the revenue profile in the first quarter is Power. In the first-quarter 2015, Power organic revenue grew by 21% as we delivered several large orders; without this impact, organic revenue would've grown by 3% in the first quarter.

Some highlights in the quarter include services up 13%; Aviation up 10%; and China grew by 10%, with 15% growth in Healthcare. Healthcare had the best organic growth in 20 quarters, and Renewables grew by 34%.

We still believe that organic growth will be up 2% to 4% for the year. Healthcare, Power, Aviation, Renewables are expected to have strong growth, substantially better than 2015, and this will more than offset headwinds in Oil & Gas and Transportation.

Our second half of 2016 is lining up to be about 5% organic growth, based on equipment backlog profiles.

Core Industrial margins grew by 30 basis points. Margins would have grown 110 basis points without FX headwind.

We continue to make solid progress in sourcing and simplification. Service margins expanded by 190 basis points, as we continue to see benefits from our efforts in analytics. Our integration efforts with Alstom are just beginning, but we see great potential.

GE is executing well in a challenging environment.

Cash was in line with expectations. As I said earlier, we received a $7.5 billion dividend from Capital.

Industrial was impacted by Alstom with a typical first-quarter profile. We expect to hit $29 billion to $32 billion of CFOA in 2016.

Our balance sheet remains very strong, and we ended the quarter with $106 billion of liquidity at GE Capital and $9 billion of cash on the balance sheet. Meanwhile, we returned $8.3 billion of cash to investors in buyback and dividend.

We expect to receive $18 billion from GE Capital for the year, and Appliances is expected to close in the second quarter.

As I said earlier, we applied for SIFI de-designation in March. Our application is quite strong. We've addressed all the FSOC concerns which led to the original Systemic designation, and we'll give you more updates as we learn more.

Now I'd like to give you a sense for our dynamics in 2016. Most of the Company is quite strong.

Specifically, we feel great about what we're seeing in Aviation, Healthcare, Power, and Renewables. Their results should be better than what we showed in December. In addition, we're investing the gains from the Appliances business sale into incremental restructuring to achieve lower cost.

At the same time, we see pressure in the Oil & Gas business. The team had a decent first quarter, particularly when you take into account foreign exchange.

However, we want to take a more conservative position on the year, posting revenue down 15% to 20% and operating profit down 30%. We will continue to outperform our competitors and capitalize on volatility.

We've always said the value of GE is the strength of our portfolio, and we are reaffirming our $1.45 to $1.55 EPS framework for 2016.

I also wanted to spike out our performance in Alstom, where we're expecting $0.05 EPS in 2016. We had solid performance in the first quarter, $3 billion of orders, with renewed momentum. And I really like our opportunities for gas turbine balance-of-plant, HVDC, and steam turbines.

In addition, taking a dedicated look at Renewables is making us smarter and faster. We have massive potential to utilize the combined supply chain. Synergies were $100 million in the first quarter, on a path to $1.1 billion in the year.

Segment operating profit is ahead of plan. Jeff will go through the segments, but big-picture, this is working.

Now I would like to introduce Joe Mastrangelo. Joe leads our Gas Power Systems business. He can bring the Alstom benefits to life and tell you how we're winning in the marketplace.

JOE MASTRANGELO, PRESIDENT & CEO GE POWER GAS POWER SYSTEMS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with a quick market overview. Overall demand for Gas Power Systems is steady, and we forecast the market to be between 55 to 60 gigawatts for both heavy duty and aero gas turbines.

Globally, we continue to see strong demand in North America and Asia, with good growth in China. There are also pockets of country-specific growth in the Middle East and Africa, both for utility-scale and fast power applications. In addition, commercial activity is increasing in both Argentina and Mexico, driven by recent government reforms.

2016 is the production launch for the HA turbine platform, and our team is ready to meet the challenge of shipping about 24 HA gas turbines this year. The industry continues to shift to the H, or high-efficiency, technology. Last year this accounted for 40% of the total industry orders, and we expect that to rise to more than half of all gigawatts sold by 2020.

Fast power demand can be lumpy from quarter to quarter, and customers want megawatts online in months. Using aeroderivative gas turbines combined with Alstom expanded scope capability, plus local execution financing from The GE Store, we have the ability to quickly go from customer need to power on the grid anywhere in the world.

Moving to Alstom, this is a great marriage of two technology portfolios: high-performing gas turbines from GE and the highest-efficiency steam tail technology from Alstom. We have industry-leading, fully integrated power island solution capability.

Around 10% of our orders came from Alstom technology in the first quarter, and we are now quoting Alstom steam tails on every combined-cycle opportunity -- a big shift from pre-Alstom, where we sold steam tails less than 30% of the time.

This is our single biggest growth opportunity in the near term, and we expect strong 2016 orders that will convert into 2017 revenue.

In the first quarter, we shipped 13 heavy-duty gas turbines, and our forecast is to ship 40 in the first half and 75 in the second half for 115 total year shipments. Right now, 101 of those turbines are in backlog, and we see opportunities to potentially be better than our current forecast.

The next page covers the HA platform launch. We are very pleased with progress on this program, both commercially, where we continue to win in the marketplace, and also on equipment performance, which is exceeding expectations.

The H backlog continues to grow. We will deliver about $2 billion of revenue this year with positive total year margin.

Our integrated approach to the market translates into more equipment being sold per megawatt shipped. Alstom improves our steam turbines, generators, and heat recovery steam generator performance, and it shows in our orders.

In the first 200 days since the acquisition, we have already closed more than double the HRSG orders then Alstom did in the last three years combined. Our launch plant for EDF in France has set a world record output for both simple-cycle and combined-cycle configurations. We're also on track to set another world record for combined-cycle efficiency when this plant goes online in the middle of June.

We continue to develop and introduce new models at record speed, and during the first quarter we did a flawless validation of the 7HA.02 gas turbine. This turbine performed better than our initial engineering models, and our first units were shipped during the first quarter.

Exelon is another powerful example of the Alstom and GE combination. These two projects in Texas have 100% GE power island technology.

It wasn't sold that way, because Alstom wasn't yet part of GE at the time. But bringing these teams together gives us the ability to derisk project execution and deliver stronger operating performance.

The HA platform is one of the biggest product line launches in GE's history. The team is performing well, and this technology is a key driver to both growth and profitability.

Here are three great examples of projects that are improving both business profitability and delivering the lowest cost of electricity to our customers. The first example combines new technology with a vertical integration on three-dimensional compressor air flows that improve the output and efficiency for the HA turbine. We deliver a $12 million annual cost savings, raise our supply chain capability, and reduce production cycle time.

The middle of the page highlights the power of The GE Store. We brought together engineers from GE Power, Alstom, and the GRC who developed new high-temperature material for our F-Class fleet. It's less expensive and also improves gas turbine performance, where higher temperatures equal better efficiency. Once again, new equipment cost of electricity goes down while creating a new service upgrade opportunity.

Generators are an example of taking existing Alstom technology and putting it into our product catalog instead of buying it from a third party. We not only lowered our cost position but also improved performance and reliability.

The next page looks at our 2016 margin profile. The HA will become profitable in 2Q at about the time we ship our 12th unit. We've taken over 30% of costs out of the turbine in our first year of production.

Now let's put that into historical perspective. The 10th HA turbine shipment is equal to the 1,000th F-Class turbine shipped on a dollar-per-kilowatt basis. We are delivering higher performance for value with the combination of improved gas turbine output and Alstom steam technology.

Here are two projects in the US. The first one is TVA, which we closed in 2014. Our scope was just the gas turbine and the generator, which translated into a value of $178 per kilowatt for GE.

Now, fast forward to the first quarter of this year, where we closed an HA deal with PSEG. We sold the gas turbine and the generator and added in the Alstom steam tail highlighted in light blue. We more than double our dollars sold for the same amount of kilowatts delivered. Our customers get better value, in this case an incremental $5 million because the power island operates at improved efficiency.

This is very exciting, and now let me share with you one more thing: how our digital capability is improving our Industrial performance. Take the two first circles. We are opening new design spaces and allowing our factory to produce smaller features and tighter tolerances with world-class quality.

We build the digital twin when we design the machine, and direct-link that model to advanced manufacturing technologies like 3D printing and additive manufacturing. This allows rapid prototyping and the ability to ramp up production faster.

Then we test our equipment harder than it will ever operate in the field at our state-of-the-art full-load test facility. This is one-of-a-kind capability in our industry.

During testing, we have more than 7,000 data streams that capture more than 500 terabytes of data. That data goes back to our technology team to both validate designs and improve performance.

The blue circle is an example of this. It shows the first two stages of turbine blading, that have thousands of small holes to allow the metal to safely operate above its melting point. We color the blades with thermal paint to validate the design performance on the test stand.

And now, with our new Metem acquisition we can rapidly prototype and bring into production new cooling hole configurations that optimize performance and efficiency. What once took years can now be accomplished in a matter of weeks.

The far right circle shows how combining Digital and Industrial expertise delivers value. The blue represents a compressor test stand campaign compared to the orange, which is one year of operating performance for a 537 7F gas turbine fleet. These results create an expanded operating space for our customers where moving up and to the right can deliver up to $10 million in incremental value.

The data then becomes the basis for a Predix-enabled application that allows our customers to maximize performance while operating the equipment safely. This page shows why the HA program launch is proceeding so smoothly -- faster than we've ever done before, while continuously innovating our technology platform.

Thanks for listening, and now I'll turn it over to Jeff Bornstein.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Joe. I'll start with the first-quarter summary.

Revenues were $27.8 billion, up 6% in the quarter. Industrial revenues were up 7% to $25 billion. You can see on the right side that Industrial segments were up 6% reported and down 1% organic. Alstom revenue in the quarter was $2.8 billion.

Industrial operating plus Verticals EPS was $0.21, up 5%. That includes $0.05 of net restructuring this year versus $0.03 a year ago.

If you look at the box at the bottom of the page, we provided the V percent adjusted for Industrial gains and restructuring. Excluding those impacts in both years, Industrial EPS was up 5% and Industrial plus Vertical EPS was up 14%.

The operating EPS number of $0.06 includes other continuing GE Capital activity, including headquarter runoff and other exit-related items that I'll cover on the GE Capital page.

Continuing EPS of $0.02 includes the impact of non-operating pension. Net EPS of $0.01 loss includes discontinued operations. The total disc-ops impact was a charge of $300 million in the quarter, driven by GE Capital exit costs.

As Jeff said, we generated $7.9 billion of CFOA in the quarter, up from $1.3 billion in the first quarter of 2015, driven by increased dividend from GE Capital. Industrial CFOA was $400 million, down 60%.

There were two big drivers of the year-over-year decline. First, Alstom used about $400 million cash in the quarter, and this is primarily timing. Consistent with what we said previously, we expect Alstom to be breakeven to slightly positive on CFOA for the year.

Second, as you are aware, we have a very second half loaded volume profile, driven by Power. As a result, we began level-loading the factories, which has resulted in higher inventory in the quarter.

The GE tax rate was 17%, and the GE Capital tax rate was 36%, which for GE Capital reflects a tax benefit on a pretax continuing loss.

On the right side are the segment results. As I mentioned, Industrial segment revenues were up 6% reported and down 1% organically. Foreign-exchange translation of $544 million was a 2-point headwind, as was lost revenue from dispositions of $542 million.

Those impacts were more than offset by $2.8 billion of revenue from Alstom.

As Jeff mentioned, foreign-exchange had a significant impact on segment op profit this quarter. In total, we had $255 million headwind, driven by $33 million of FX translation and $223 million of foreign-exchange transactional impacts from remeasurement and mark-to-market on open hedges.

Traditionally, remeasurement and mark-to-market have been de minimus. For example, in all of 2015 it was about $30 million; and for 2014 it was less than $5 million for the year.

It's unusual for us to have this big of an impact, which is why we're calling it out here this quarter. This outsized impact in the quarter was driven by significant movements in certain currencies versus prior quarter. For example, the weakening of the pound sterling, the strengthening of the Japanese yen, and the strengthening of the Brazilian reals.

These impacts were principally felt in Power and Oil & Gas, given the global nature of those businesses. Alstom was a driver as, well given their broad global footprint.

It's important to note that we are economically hedged, and that remeasurement and mark-to-market impacts are just timing. The underlying transactions for which these hedges were put in place will occur in sales and costs over the coming quarters; and the net impact of the hedge and the underlying transaction will be roughly zero over the life of the contract.

So again, the $223 million of FX movement will flow back through earnings over time.

On the right side of the page you'll see the Industrial segment op profit was down 7% reported and down 4% organically. The organic number of 4% excludes the effects of acquisitions and dispositions and FX translation only. Excluding the impacts of transactional FX, as I just discussed, organic segment profit was up 2% in the quarter.

Next, on Industrial other items for the quarter, we had $0.05 of charges related to industrial restructuring and other items that were taking at Corporate. Charges were $686 million on a pretax basis, with $164 million of those charges related to Alstom's synergy investments, deal costs, and accounting items.

We also had a gain of $59 million pretax related to the sale of our space at 30 Rock, which netted to less than a $0.01 impact.

At the bottom of the page you can see the profile for the year. We expect gains and restructurings to largely offset, but with quarterly variability in timing. As you know, we signed the Appliance transaction, which we expect to contribute about $0.20 of gain in the second quarter.

In the second half we have asset management disposition. This was smaller transactions that will contribute an additional $0.05, bringing total year gains to approximately $0.25. This allows us to significantly restructure our cost basis and will make us more competitive in 2017 and beyond.

Next I'll go through the segments, starting with Power. The Power business had a very strong orders quarter. Total orders, $5.6 billion, were up 66%, including $1.5 billion of Alstom orders. Excluding Alstom, orders were up 23% to $4.2 billion, with equipment orders higher by 57% and services higher by 11%.

Equipment order strength was driven by Gas Power Systems where we took orders for 25 gas turbines versus 21 a year ago, including an additional six H turbines. We also had orders for seven steam turbines for combined cycle versus zero a year ago.

The US was strong, accounting for 73% of orders value. International was also strong, up 21%.

Our H unit backlog stands at 35 after receiving orders for six new units and shipping our first four units. Alstom steam orders totaled $300 million in the quarter. We took in order for one steam turbine and a turbogenerator for coal application. In conjunction with GE gas turbine, Alstom also took orders for five additional HRSGs.

Core GE services grew orders 11% on strength in Power Services, up 17%. Total upgrades were 52 versus 49 last year, including orders for 25 AGPs, higher by nine from last year. In addition to AGPs, we're seeing higher demand for other upgrades like dry low NOx and plans for plant upgrades.

Alstom services booked $1 billion of orders including 22 steam turbine retrofits.

In total, backlog ended at $78 billion. Excluding Alstom, backlog ended at $63 billion with $9 billion of equipment, up 51%, and services of $54 billion, up 7%. Revenue of $5.2 billion was up 13%, with equipment down 24% and services up 40%. Excluding Alstom, revenues were down 18%, driven by equipment revenue down 48% on 26 fewer gas turbine shipments and 35 fewer generators, as we expected.

Services excluding Alstom grew revenues 5%, driven by Power Services, up 7%. Upgrades were 54 this year versus 55 a year ago, including 27 AGPs, which was six higher.

Op profit excluding Alstom was $547 million in the quarter, down 28% on the lower gas turbine volume, negative cost leverage, and negative currency. This was partially offset by services growth.

In the quarter, we had $48 million of currency drag, mostly from transactional foreign exchange, principally on the euro and the yen. We expect these transactional hedges to reverse over time.

Alstom contributed op profit of $26 million in the quarter, including the effects of purchase accounting and currency. Transactional FX for Alstom was a $33 million headwind.

First-quarter results were as expected and, as Joe mentioned, reflect the timing of our gas turbine volume for 2016, which is heavily second-half loaded. We continue to win with the H turbine, including pulling through Alstom steam, generators, and HRSGs.

We expect to deliver 115-plus gas turbines this year, with 101 in backlog. And we will continue to drive H margins throughout the year.

We're on plan for Alstom synergies for the year of about $800 million.

Next is Renewables. Orders in the quarter were $2 billion, up 110% in the quarter. Orders were higher by 86%, excluding Alstom.

Our core Wind business took orders for 711 wind turbines versus 376 a year ago. US orders were very strong, up 144%, including an order for 96 units that slipped from the fourth quarter. Orders for the new 2.X and 3.X products accounted for almost 70% of our unit orders.

Alstom Renewable orders were $225 million, driven by hydro, with orders in China, Laos, and the US. Total backlog of $12.4 billion includes $5 billion contributed by Alstom. Core backlog of $7.4 billion grew 43%.

Revenue in the quarter of $1.7 billion was higher by 62% with the core business up 34%. The core business shipped 616 turbines versus 472 last year. About half of the shipped units were the new 2.X product. Alstom revenues of $295 million were principally attributable to hydro.

Operating profit in the quarter totaled $83 million, inclusive of $91 million from the core business and an $8 million loss from Alstom. Core profitability was driven by higher volume and a termination payment that was more than offset by 2.X launch costs and negative foreign exchange.

The quarter was a good start to the year, with strong order growth and execution in both the legacy and the Alstom segments. We continue to expect the business to ship about 3,050 wind turbines in 2016, with about 100 coming from Alstom versus the 250 we originally guided and 150 more from GE. The business is on track to deliver over $100 million of Alstom synergies for the year.

Next is Aviation. Aviation continues to perform well, as does the market. Global passenger air travel from February year-to-date grew 8%, its strongest performance since 2008.

Both domestic and international routes saw robust growth. Air freight volumes contracted about 1.6% through February.

Aviation orders in the quarter were $6.6 billion, down 12%. Equipment orders were down 35% to $2.6 billion, as we expected.

We booked $1.7 billion of commercial equipment orders, including $800 million of LEAP CFM, $400 million of GE90, and about $100 million of GEnx orders. Military equipment was higher by 91% on large naval orders.

Service orders grew 13% to $4 billion on spares up 2%, repairs up 10%, and CSAs up 34%. Services backlog grew 11% versus the first quarter of last year.

Revenues in the quarter of $6.3 billion were up 10%, with equipment higher by 2%. The business shipped 53 GEnx units versus 51 last year. Service revenue grew 17% with spares up 6% and strength in commercial services and military.

Operating profit in the quarter was higher by 16% on services volume and cost productivity. Operating profit margins expanded 110 basis points.

Aviation had another solid quarter. The LEAP launch remains on track, and we expect to ship 15 to 20 units in the second quarter and about 110 engines for the year. We have now accumulated more than 19,000 cycles on the LEAP engine, and all the engines were performing well and all were meeting their fuel specifications.

Next is Oil & Gas. We're operating in an incredibly difficult environment. In the first quarter, US onshore rig counts were down another 27% from year-end and down 72% from the 2014 peak. US well counts are down 64% versus the first quarter of 2015, and CapEx and investment decisions continue to be pushed out in virtually every segment.

We continue to be focused on the things we can control, principally on cost and competitiveness. Orders in the quarter were down 44%, with equipment orders down 70%.

Every segment saw significantly lower equipment orders. Subsea was down 83%, TMS was down 92%, Surface was down 43%, and Downstream was down 14%.

Service orders were down 19% in total, with all segments also declining. TMS was down 4%, Surface 28%, Subsea 57%, Downstream 23%, and Digital Solutions were down 5%.

Not included in orders but included in backlog, we signed a CSA contract with Diamond Offshore. The deal covers four BOP sets and was done in conjunction with our energy financing business.

Backlog ended the quarter at $22.6 billion, down 1% from the fourth quarter. Equipment backlog totaled $8.8 billion, down 7% from last year; and service backlog totaled $13.8 billion, up 3% from last year.

Revenue in the quarter was down 18%; down 14% organically. Equipment revenues were down 23%, 18% organically, driven by Surface down 45%, TMS down 23%, Subsea down 26%; and Downstream grew revenue 14%.

Service revenues were down 13%, down 9% organic, with all segments lower with the exception of TMS, which grew revenue 6% organically in the quarter.

Operating profit of $308 million was down 37%, and down 31% organically. The business delivered approximately $140 million of cost actions, which was more than offset by lower volume, price, and foreign exchange. Foreign exchange in a quarter was a $95 million headwind, driven by FX associated with translation of $25 million and transactional FX of $70 million.

In an extremely tough market, the team will continue to [drive] cost and market share. We are on track to deliver against the $800 million cost target.

Our restructuring investment will likely increase from $350 million to about $500 million to achieve the benefits, as lower volume will offset some of the realization. The increased restructuring is within the restructuring framework we've been sharing with you.

As Jeff mentioned, given the difficult market and how orders have started the year, we are now planning Oil & Gas operating profit down approximately 30% in 2016. We expect strength elsewhere in the portfolio and aggressive corporate cost management to maintain our plan. No change in guidance of the $1.45 to $1.55.

Next up is Healthcare, which had a very strong quarter. Orders in the quarter of $4.2 billion were up 5% organic and 1% reported. Geographically, orders grew 3% in the United States, 14% in China, 4% in Europe, and 2% in Asia-Pacific, partially offset by weakness in Latin America, which was down 12%, principally driven by Brazil.

In terms of business lines, Healthcare systems grew orders 5% organically and 2% reported, with strength in the US driven by strong CT growth of 26% on increased traction on the new Revolution CT launch and 16% growth in the Ultrasound business. Organically, China was up 12% and Europe grew 6% with broad growth across the region.

Our Life Science business was up 7% organically with strength in both bioprocess, up 7%, and core Imaging higher by 10%. Healthcare revenues of $4.2 billion were up 3% reported and up 6% organically. Healthcare systems grew revenue 4% organic, 1% reported; and Life Sciences grew 13% organically and 6% reported.

Operating profit was up 7% reported, up 10% organically. Strong productivity and volume growth offset price and NPI Digital spending. Margins improved in the quarter 70 basis points.

The business is beginning to deliver on the growth from NPI investments we've made, and it's restructuring to deliver lower product and service costs. The business is on track to meet or exceed the framework we shared with you and investors in March.

Next, Transportation continues to face a very tough domestic market. Commodity carloads in the first quarter were down 12%, driven by coal down 31%; and petroleum products were down 17%. Intermodal grew modestly, up 1%.

Orders for the quarter of $653 million were down 56%, as we expected. Equipment orders were weak, down 89%. Service orders were down 3% organically and down 18% reported, principally driven by lower loco parts.

Backlog ended at $21.1 billion; that's down 2% from the end of the year. Revenues in the quarter were down 25%, driven by lower equipment revenues. The business shipped 156 locos in the first quarter versus 215 last year.

Service revenues were flat, excluding the sale of Signaling.

Operating profit of $164 million was down 27%, down 22% organically, driven by lower volume and variable cost productivity, partially offset by strong deflation and structural cost takeout. Base costs were lower by 13%.

Op profit margins contracted 50 basis points in the quarter. The team continues to aggressively drive product and service costs, as well as structural costout, given the volume challenges they face this year. We still expect to ship approximately 800 locos in 2016, and our outlook for the year remains unchanged.

Energy Connections orders totaled $2.7 billion in the quarter, up 27%. Organically orders were down 13%, driven by Power Conversion down 20% on weakness in Oil & Gas, partly offset by strength in Renewables. Industrial Solutions was down 7% organically on weakness in the North American market.

Grid orders were $1.25 billion in the quarter, and backlog finished the quarter at $11.9 billion of which Grid Solutions contributed $8.4 billion.

Revenues in the quarter of $2.3 billion were up 34% reported. Organic revenues were down 6%. Grid Solutions revenues totaled $1.1 billion.

Operating profit was a loss of $85 million. The core business of Industrial Solutions and Power Conversion recorded a loss of $47 million, driven by lower Oil & Gas volume, higher Digital investment, and lost earnings from the sale of our embedded business in 2015. SG&A was down 8% in the quarter.

Grid Solutions recorded a loss of $38 million, driven by $20 million of operational earnings offset by $40 million of purchase accounting charges and $23 million of transactional foreign exchange. Alstom synergies in the quarter were ahead of plan, and their business is on track for the year to deliver over $200 million of synergies.

We feel good about the progress we're making in integrating Digital Energy and Alstom Grid. Overall, Energy Connections had a challenging quarter but we expect their results to improve over the year beginning in the second quarter.

We're investing to make this segment more competitive and to improve profitability. We like these businesses for the long-term.

Next, Appliances & Lighting. We remain on track for a 2Q closing for our sale of Appliances to Haier. Haier shareholders approved the transaction on March 31.

In the quarter, segment revenue grew 3%, with Appliances revenue growth of 8% on strong industry volume, which was up 7%, including strength in both retail, up 6%, and contract, up 9%. Lighting revenue was lower by 6% organically, driven by continued strength in LED offset by contraction in the legacy lighting business.

Segment profit of $115 million was higher by 13%, driven by the strength in Appliances on strong productivity and commodity deflation.

The last segment I'll cover is GE Capital. Our Verticals businesses earned $496 million this quarter. That's up 43% from prior year, driven by higher gains, better operations, partially offset by lower tax benefits and impairments. Portfolio quality continues to remain stable.

Other continuing operations generated a $1.4 billion loss in the quarter, principally driven by excess interest expense, the expense associated with the first quarter of 2016 $4 billion hybrid tender, headquarter operating costs, restructuring, and other charges related to GE Capital transformation including the costs associated with the preferred equity exchange which we also executed earlier in the quarter.

To date we've incurred $22.6 billion of costs related to the GE Capital exit plan. We remain on track versus our $23 billion estimate.

Discontinued operations incurred a loss of $300 million in the quarter, largely driven by marks on held-for-sale assets. Overall, GE Capital reported a $1.2 billion loss in the quarter.

We ended the quarter with $127 billion of ENI, excluding liquidity, with the Verticals at $78 billion of ENI. Liquidity at the end of the first quarter was $106 billion.

Our Basel 3 Tier 1 Common ratio was 14.5%, which is flat from year-end after paying dividends of $7.5 billion during the quarter. The timing of dividends for the rest of the year is dependent on the timing of deal closures, but we expect to pay roughly half of the $18 billion we've targeted in the first half of the year and the remainder in the second half.

Asset sales remain ahead of plan. During the quarter we closed $42 billion of transactions, including $28 billion related to Wells Fargo sale, bringing the total closed transactions through the end of the quarter to $146 billion to date. In addition, we've signed agreements for an additional $9 billion in the first quarter, bringing total signings to $166 billion to date.

Our price to tangible book on deals signed to date is 1.3 times tangible book. We're on track for the 1.1 times price to tangible book that we estimated a year ago.

What is left to sign is primarily outside the US with our country platforms in France and Italy and the execution of our IPO of the Czech Bank. We expect to have a small balance of assets left through year-end.

Overall, Keith and the GE Capital team have executed ahead of schedule and on all aspects of the plan we shared with you one year ago. We expect to be largely completed with the asset sales by 2016.

On March 31 we filed the request to the FSOC for the rescission of GE Capital's designation as a SIFI. The filing demonstrates that GE Capital has substantially reduced its risk profile and is significantly less interconnected to the financial system, and therefore does not pose any threat to the US financial system. We hope to complete the de-designation process as soon as possible.

With that I'll turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. Our operating framework remains on track. We expect operating EPS to be $1.45 to $1.55. We're remixing the Industrial content, and all other dynamics remain on track.

Cash performance has improved slightly based on the Appliances disposition that we expect to complete in the second quarter. Overall, free cash flow and dispositions will equal $29 billion to $32 billion, and we expect to return $26 billion to investors in buyback and dividends.

The GE model is producing for investors in this volatile economy. The strength of our portfolio will deliver strong EPS and cash growth. We're executing well with Alstom.

Before we end, I wanted to give you a sense for how we have aligned the team's compensation with investors. For 2016 our AEIP goals -- in essence, our internal plan -- is above this framework. For 2016 to 2018, our LTIP ties to the three-year EPS and capital allocation walk we showed you at the Outlook Meeting.

I feel great about our strategy, execution, and the strength of our business model. Matt, now over to you for questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. Now I'll ask the operator to open the lines up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi; good morning, guys. I know this might be tough to answer -- and this is for Jeff Bornstein -- but give us a sense at least of, what is the feedback and the process in this SIFI de-designation? Do you just apply and then wait for a ruling, or is there some sort of conversations through the process where you can get a sense of where you stand?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Scott. We're the first through the process, okay? So I wouldn't say there is a ton of definition around how the process should work, per se.

We are in discussions with the FSOC. They've got our paper. We will walk them through the tenets of our paper. We're in the process of doing that over the next couple of weeks.

Then we expect to get a response from the FSOC around the request. And we hope that happens sooner rather than later.

JEFF IMMELT: I would only add to that, Scott, two things. One is, if you look at the reason for the designation, our proposal aligns with that in terms of why we don't think we're systemic today.

The other one is just miming what's been said in public. I think people want to see the process work. In other words, I think they want to see that people can come out of SIFI designation just like they can come in. And that's just really parroting what people on the FSOC have said.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, good morning. Just a question on the segment margin bridge that you laid out. If you look last year as a whole, you take the cost productivity and gross margin plus the SG&A simplification; that was about a 60 bps tailwind to margins, all in. This quarter it was a negative of 20 bps.

So I wondered if there was just some timing on specific productivity measures, or if there is something larger going on that explains why the productivity contribution was so muted in Q1.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I think the page that Jeff just walked through, we showed cost productivity and gross margins as a 40 basis point drag. I think what you've got to -- I talked about the effect of remeasurement and marks and foreign exchange when I went through our results. A lot of that finds itself in gross margins.

If you adjust for that, cost productivity was actually up 40 basis points, and that's how you get to 80 basis points of gross margins, excluding the effects of that foreign exchange. I didn't say it earlier, but when we look at how those marks and remeasurements peel off over the year against the contracts that they're hedging, about two-thirds of that, of those contracts, settle up in the form of cash in the year.

So we would expect two-thirds of what we took as a charge here in the first quarter to come back within the year. So that's why the cost productivity line was a negative 40 basis points. But for exchange, it would have been a plus 40 basis points.

OPERATOR: Andrew Kaplowitz, Citigroup.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, guys. Service was up 4% year-over-year, which is a modest improvement from last quarter's 3%. It looks like your momentum in Power Services and Aviation is increasing.

Is there any way to parse out how much of the relatively strong growth is coming from your Digital initiative? Jeff, you've said in the past that you're expecting to get an additional couple points from Digital on service over time. Can you talk about the sustainability of the services momentum, especially as you just rolled out Predix?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I still expect in backlog that you're going to start seeing this flow through. ATPs will be up year-over-year, and we had some good wins in both the rail business and the Transportation business for the year.

I think when you look at orders growing by 29%, we think some of that is going to start echoing through into the run rate of the service business in the second half of this year, into 2017 and 2018. So I still fully expect, along with the service leaders in the business, to have organic services growth at 5% or greater as we look at 2016 and beyond.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks; good morning, guys. Maybe my own question on Oil & Gas, clearly the environment's not great. I thought Lorenzo did a great job last year of maintaining margins in a very difficult environment; but you seem to step down in decrementals in the first quarter.

I guess maybe, can you parse some of that out? How much of it is FX oriented? How much is it the pieces of your business like Turbo and the Offshore business not doing well enough? Can you parse out what really is driving your decrementals?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so a couple thoughts here. Let's start with the results in the quarter. They reported $308 million of operating margin in the quarter. That included roughly about $90 million of negative FX, okay? Again as I said earlier, a big part of that FX we'd expect to come back during the year.

When you think about the step to down 30%, we're seeing it tougher across all our segments, but it tends to be very concentrated in our Surface business in North America. We got a big step down there versus our original expectation, and a bit in our Subsea business.

The rest of the business, whether it's Turbomachinery, Downstream, or the old M&C business we call Digital today, those businesses are not that far off the framework we built when we guided you to 10% to 15%. It's really around Subsea and Surface.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning all. Hey, since we have a special guest today as well, it would be helpful to get a better sense on the Alstom backlog. To what extent when -- we also looked at the additional risk in the K on engineering and construction risk and all of that. To what extent is that backlog now something you've gone over every single project in excruciating detail, have very high levels of conviction on the risk front? And how should we think about that playing out going forward?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Steve, I'll start and then Joe can weigh in on the piece of the backlog that he knows. We have been going through those contracts in extraordinarily amount of detail.

We're deeply through it. We're not completely done. I've told the team we want to be completely wrapped here in the second quarter so we can lock down purchase accounting.

As you would expect, there are some challenges in those contracts around the timing of cash flows and how we forecast revenue to go, how we forecast cost to go. You've seen some of that in the purchase accounting.

But I would say generally speaking we are very close to done. I think in the Power business that Joe can talk to, I think we're in very good shape and we have a deep and good understanding of where we are. Joe?

JOE MASTRANGELO: Thanks, Jeff. The only thing I would add more on the operational side is the team in Power, they've done a really good job at how they've managed the projects, and we see this as an opportunity to grow for the future. The capability that we've gained around the world on complex expanded-scope projects I think is one of the catalysts for us to keep growing.

We're through our backlog in Gas Power Systems, and see that the team does a great job executing projects.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, I would say we've underwritten Alstom with no growth synergies at all. We're clearly going to blow that away, okay?

I just think, as Joe went through, HSRGs, Grid, things like that -- but I would also say even in -- I just got back from a week or so in Asia. Even in steam power there's going to be opportunities for GE as we look at the future.

So I think that's the way I think about it, as locking down the costs, what Jeff and Joe talked about. We didn't underwrite any revenue synergies at all, and I think that's going to be the icing on the cake as we go forward.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning. I do want to follow up on the Oil & Gas question because certainly there's been some speculation regarding your potential interest in adding more Oil & Gas assets at this point.

And then a quick one for Jeff Bornstein, an update on the cadence of buybacks, that $18 billion. How does that sequence out for the balance of the year?

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Deane, I'll take the first part of that one. Look, we like for the long term the Oil & Gas segment. We're going to look at adding to it, if it makes sense.

We think there's a bunch of different segments in the Oil & Gas business that are attractive as we look at it today. But it's got to make sense in the context of the world we see today and not the rosiest of projections as it pertains to the future.

So we're going to be a disciplined buyer when we look at the assets in the Oil & Gas segment. Jeff, how about the second part of the question?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. The way we planned it out, as you saw in the cash flow walk that Jeff took you through, we bought $6.1 billion worth of stock back through the first quarter. Our plan is to buy back roughly 50% in the first half, 50% in the second half; and that's how we're still planning for the dividends to flow from GE Capital. No change versus what we suggested we would do.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you; good morning, everyone. Just wanted to make sure I have my arms around the all-in Industrial OP. I assume the $19 billion plus for the year is still a decent number, given that the overall framework hasn't changed. So I guess, if you could address that.

But given all the moving parts, anything we should be aware of here in Q2 in just making sure we've got this dialed correctly? The H launch; LEAP is coming up. I know you don't want to get into precise Q2 guidance, but a little bit of help there would be good, I think.

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I think, Jeff, I would consider the remixing in the Industrial segments to be more or less washout as you go through the puts and takes on 2Q. Jeff, I don't know, do you want to spike out anything there?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We have a few things. We expect to close Appliances in June, so you'll see the gain associated with Appliances; let's say roughly $0.20 a share. We expect to do about $0.11 of restructuring in the second quarter, as we stand here today.

And I think the margin rate in the second quarter, based on LEAP, both launch and initial shipments, and H will get better sequentially every quarter on H cost. I think margin rate will be a little bit of a challenge in the second quarter; no change in how we think about it for the year.

We talked about 50 basis points of improvement in the core business -- or the ex-Alstom business, I should say. No change in view on that. But the second quarter could be a little bit challenged with what we've got going on with the LEAP, the H, and the Wind launch on 2.X and 3.X.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Hey, as we think about your organic guidance for the year of 2% to 4%, what would it take to get to 2% versus 4%? And is 4% achievable in this environment? Thank you.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I'm not going to -- I think the hypotheticals are always stuff to stay away from. I think the reason why we had Joe here today is that in many ways this is the answer to your question. I think you've got the right product at the right time, well executed; tough comps in the first half, strong comps in the second.

I think if we run the play in gas turbines it's going to lead us to an organic revenue for the Company that's 5%, let's say, in the second half; and a range that's 2% to 4% for the year. So I think that was the reason really why we had, Andrew, why we had Joe here today, is that this really is the plus and the minus, if you will, on the year. And I feel good about how we're executing in the Power business.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Hey, can we maybe try to quantify a little bit more what the total margin impact is this year from these development programs? Or the launch programs, call them I guess: the H, the 2.X, 3.X, and the LEAP.

What's the total margin impact in 2016? How should we think about that in 2017? At least some kind of ballpark idea of that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't think we've gone through that. Here's what we've said, Shannon, is -- notwithstanding the challenge that those present to us from a margin perspective, where despite that, through all the investment we've made around restructuring, SG&A costs, the focus on supply chain, that we're going to overcome those costs and grow margins roughly 50 basis points in the year, ex-Alstom. As we move through to 2017, we expect to be in a very different place on H costs.

We think H will be really accretive in 2017 versus 2016. We expect to keep deeper down the curve on the LEAP engine as volume ramps in 2017 versus 2016. And we expect to be in a better spot certainly around Wind, both the 2.X -- 2.X is the most important product -- in 2017 versus 2016.

So we haven't detailed out by product exactly what that is. But everything else we're doing around trying to change the cost footprint of this Company and around product and service costs within gross margins and running a better supply chain is going to provide us enough headwind to grow margins, notwithstanding those incremental costs on those products.

JEFF IMMELT: Shannon, we have a product cost council that's led by Jeff and Vic Abate and Philippe Cochet. We're tracking all our products as they go through the system. There's a lot because, for instance as LEAP comes in, GEnx keeps going down the learning curve; so we have a flow of products going on inside the Company, and I think we just have line of sight to how in totality we're going to generate improvement year-over-year.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks; good morning. Yes, so my initial question was whether the mix or the guidance for the full year is unchanged, and it sounds like that's not the case. Sounds like it's very much in line despite the Oil & Gas downturn. So maybe just confirm that.

But I did want to ask Joe a question on the H as well. Clearly there the fuel efficiency for the H compared to Siemens and Mitsubishi which is 1 to 2 points better, which is huge. But how do you maintain that advantage going forward? What is the development path for the H from here?

And how are you thinking about the price versus market share dynamic here? Are you planning to monetize this at price, or at this point do you want to drive market share?

JOE MASTRANGELO: So, Nigel, where I'd start off is let's say in two years we've gone from single-digit to 40% share of the space. So the technology we have today plays well in the marketplace because the customers get the incremental valuables on the output and the efficiency side.

As I talked about on my last page, the key for us in everything we're doing around Digital, Industrial, FastWorks, we now can develop technology on these gas turbines on a continuous basis. Where this was discrete in the past and you would do a move every five or 10 years, we're doing this continuously.

We've already done four models on the gas turbine today, and there is a roadmap to continue to push the thermal efficiency above 62%. Our plan is to get it to 65%, and we see that both from what we can do on the gas turbine and what we bring in from Alstom on the combined-cycle basis. That's the roadmap we have to stay ahead of the competition.

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say, Nigel, I would echo what Joe said. The Alstom pieces I think give us a window that's greater than what we had anticipated even before we completed the deal, which I think is quite a positive.

Then, Jeff, I think the first question was there's no change on really the mix on gross margin?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: So I think just to nail that one, I think, Nigel, even with Oil & Gas I don't think we see --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I didn't understand that that was a question. But yes, (technical difficulty) launch for the year, with the launches. But that's all wrapped up in our 50 basis point margin improvement.

OPERATOR: Robert McCarthy, Stifel.

ROBERT MCCARTHY, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, everyone; thanks for fitting me in. Hey, looks like overnight you did about a $100 million deal for Daintree Networks in Australia, and basically in the network lighting space.

Part of the rationale, at least from Daintree's standpoint, they are very excited about the Predix opportunity for lighting controls. Maybe you can talk a little bit about -- is this a change of the margin in terms of how you're thinking about investing in that business?

JEFF IMMELT: I think the way we look at this, Rob, is this was a system deal that allows us in the LED space to do a better job with controls. So I would view this as kind of a one-off from the standpoint of this was just a very unique technology that had a very good fit with doing these systems.

Now, what Jeff said in the past, so what Beth in the rest of the team have said, we're going to get this year some very big LED orders from commercial real estate people and things like that. So we're going to be at a run rate that's substantially over $1 billion.

But the Daintree control fit is really to allow us to build a system. this was a classic make-versus-buy call that just allows us to accelerate faster.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: It was absolutely a critical component to making these things work, no question.

MATT CRIBBINS: Okay. A couple of quick announcements. The replay of our webcast will be available this afternoon on our Investor website. Our 2016 shareowners meeting will be next Wednesday in Jacksonville, Florida.

Jeff, you're going to present at the EPG Conference on May 18. We're also going to hold a GE Digital Investor Day on June 23 out in San Ramon, California. Thanks for joining today's webcast.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160423ec4m001jm
  


 HD
 Q4  2015  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,759 words
   PD
22 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Ellen and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and thanks for joining our fourth-quarter 2015 webcast. Earlier today we posted the press release, presentation, and supplemental on our Investor website at www.GE.com/investor. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes.

Today I'm joined by our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Now I'd like to turn it over to Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. Let me start with some thoughts on the macro environment and GE's fit in it. For the last few years I've talked about a slow growth and volatile economy. This is still my view.

In the fourth quarter, across our own large industrial footprint our orders grew by 1% organically, and our backlog is at a record of $315 billion, up 7% organically. Our biggest Industrial business, which is Power, had organic orders growth of 29% in the quarter. I have a difficult time reconciling this with the mood that is in the markets.

Clearly, oil pricing is a concern and will have an impact. But our organic orders growth in the Middle East were up 14% in the quarter, so economic activity is ongoing.

I know there is a concern about emerging markets in total, but our organic growth was up 7% in the quarter, ex-Alstom, and our business in China grew slightly organically in the year and backlog grew by 11%. So we're seeing a lot of economic volatility, but there's still enough business out there for GE to hit its goals.

The GE team had a good quarter in a volatile environment. Total operating EPS was $0.52, up 27%; and Industrial EPS was $0.47, up 27%. Orders were up slightly and organic growth was down slightly versus a year ago.

Total Industrial margins expanded by 80 basis points, and 2015 CFOA grew by 8% to $16.4 billion. Industrial profit expanded by 3% organically.

We hit or exceeded all of our goals in 2015. Organic growth was up 3%, with 80 basis points of margin expansion, leading to 7% organic profit growth.

EPS was $1.31, up 17%. We achieved this despite having $0.05 of FX headwind.

The Verticals hit their plan, and Capital returned $4.3 billion to the Parent. Our cash and free cash flow execution was ahead of plan. We returned $33 billion to investors, including the excellent execution with Synchrony.

We also executed a massive amount of portfolio change in the year. GE Capital exits are ahead of plan, with $157 billion of signings to date.

The impact of Alstom was flat on EPS, slightly better than expected. Alstom had an impact on several segments, and Jeff will take you through those results; but on balance we like what we see in Alstom.

Last week we announced the disposition of Appliances to Haier for $5.4 billion. This will create an attractive gain and allow us to significantly increase our restructuring targets in 2016.

So we're committed to our 2016 framework in the face of macroeconomic volatility.

Now for orders. Orders grew by 3%, which was up 1% organically. And as I said earlier, our backlog is $315 billion, up 7% ex-Alstom. Alstom added $29 billion to our backlog.

Services grew by 5%, which was up 3% organically. Equipment grew by 2%, which was down slightly organically.

Service orders were strong. Power Gen Service orders grew by 13% ex-Alstom, and Commercial Aviation Service orders were up 14%. Healthcare Service orders were up 3%, and Alstom orders were $2.6 billion.

We had some nice wins with Alstom in China on the Hydro business, several combined-cycle gas turbine power plants, with richer GE content and the Hinkley Point nuclear steam turbine in the United Kingdom.

On the products side of GE we also had some solid highlights. Two I'll call out.

Power booked 12 H-turbine orders in the quarter, and we now have 33 in backlog; in addition we have another 49 technical selections. In Healthcare, our MR orders grew by 18% in the quarter and our bioprocessing grew by 16% in the quarter. So great results by those businesses.

Globally, orders were generally positive, growing 8% in total and 12% in the growth regions. As I said earlier we had strength in the Middle East and ASEAN and India, and Latin America was also decent. Including Alstom, China was up 15% in orders in the quarter, and backlog grew by 16% to $21 billion.

Order pricing was up 0.9% in the quarter, and we have good pricing momentum in both Aviation and Power. So overall, our backlog and orders pricing gives us high visibility as we approach our organic growth targets in 2016.

Let's talk about the execution of the team and what you saw in the segment results. Overall the team executed in a tough environment: in the quarter organic growth was down slightly, but for the year organic growth was up 3% with seven of eight segments growing. Service remains steady, up 5% in the year and 4% in the quarter organically.

The Oil & Gas team I'd really like to call out, because I think they executed very well in 2015. With a 7% decline in revenue, their organic operating profit grew by 1%, and this is ahead of what we said last year. Our team executed on restructuring, they improved their value gap, and they invested in the core franchise, and we expect the team to continue to execute in 2016.

Looking at revenue in 2016, let me just give you a few metrics and some things to think about. We primarily ship from backlog, so orders and backlog growth matter.

In 2015, six of seven businesses grew backlog, some substantially. When we do our analytics around convertible backlog and business performance, we see a path to 2% to 4% organic growth for 2016 even with a very difficult Oil & Gas market.

The most robust part of our business is Service. Service backlog grew by 16% in 2015, and we expect another year of 20%-plus growth in our Digital applications. Both these support sustained growth in Services.

We had another strong quarter and year in margins. For the year, Industrial margins were up 80 basis points at the segment level and 110 basis points overall. Services were up 40 basis points, and Equipment was up 20 basis points.

We continue to make good progress on value gap, up more than $450 million on the year, and cost productivity. Mix was favorable in the quarter, and in addition we have solid momentum for cost-out.

Again, due to the higher Appliances gain, we can do a record level restructuring in 2016 to fortify our framework. Specifically, we believe we can execute on an incremental $1.7 billion in the year, which should yield incremental benefits.

Last year we discussed a new compensation plan that was aligned with investors and delivered results. I'm convinced that this incentivized our team to deliver superior results in 2015, and we have set our 2016 targets to drive our framework. Our strategy and business model is paying off, and we believe we can deliver strong performance in the face of economic volatility.

Now for cash. CFOA grew for the year by 8%. Industrial free cash flow grew by 4%, and total free cash flow grew by 14% to $13.5 billion. Total year core Industrial cash flow, ex-Alstom, was $12.6 billion, up 3%. Total year free cash flow conversion was 85%, in line with our expectations.

GE Capital dividends were $4.3 billion for the year, and we're still on track for $18 billion of dividends to the Parent in 2016. The balance sheet is very strong, and the price for Appliances was a pleasant surprise. The business had been improving, and there was strong interest in the business; and a price of $5.4 billion gives us more than $1.3 billion of incremental cash.

For capital allocation, we returned $33 billion in the year, including Synchrony. Looking at 2016, we're still on track to return $26 billion to investors in dividend and buyback.

Before I turn it over to Jeff, let me reflect a little on the Alstom results. We've integrated two months of revenue, all of the deal-related costs, and the impact of the joint ventures -- all for the first time. There's inherent complexity as we go through it, so bear with us; but in general, I would say the business and our outlook and our execution are on track, and we're still excited about Alstom.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the fourth-quarter summary. Revenues were $33.9 billion, up 1% in the quarter. Industrial revenues including Corporate were up 3% to $31.3 billion.

You can see on the right side that Industrial segments were down 1% reported and down 1% organic. Alstom revenue of $2 billion in the quarter was offset by $1.3 billion of foreign exchange and dispositions of $700 million.

Industrial operating plus Verticals EPS was $0.52, up 27%. That's driven by Industrial up 27% and Verticals flat. The operating EPS number of $0.31 includes other continuing GE Capital activity, including headquarter runoff and other exit-related items I'll cover in more detail shortly.

$0.26 of continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension; and net EPS of $0.64 includes discontinued operations. The total disc-ops impact was a positive $3.7 billion, driven by the $3.4 billion gain from Synchrony and earnings from the businesses held in sale.

As Jeff said, we generated $16.4 billion of CFOA for the year; that's up 8%. Industrial CFOA was $12.1 billion, down 1%, but up 3% when you exclude Alstom's CFOA and taxes associated with the disposition of Signaling.

The GE tax rate was 5%, bringing the total year rate to 14%. The tax rate in the quarter was driven by the Appliances transaction moving into 2016; tax benefits associated with integrating our existing Service business with Alstom's business in Switzerland; higher tax benefits, principally on the Signaling gain we had in the quarter; and legislation making the US research credit permanent.

The reported GE Capital tax rate in the quarter of 39% reflects a tax benefit on a pretax loss. The tax rate for the Vertical businesses was a negative 13%, reflecting reduced income at EFS and international tax benefits that will diminish as we complete the GE Capital exit plan. Going forward as we complete the exit we expect GE Capital Vertical tax rate to be approximately 10%.

On the right side of the segment results, as I mentioned, Industrial segment revenues were down 1% reported and down 1% organic, with foreign exchange and dispositions offsetting Alstom. The foreign exchange was a $1.3 billion drag on Industrial segment revenue and a $163 million impact on Industrial segment op profit.

The Power, Renewables, and Energy Management businesses were impacted by the Alstom acquisition, and I'll walk you through the impact on the next page.

At the December outlook meeting we said we would present Industrial results including Corporate operating costs. On that basis, Industrial op profit for the quarter was down 6% recorded, but up 3% organically on strong Corporate cost performance.

To give you context on the quarter, organic revenue at down 1% was a little over $1 billion lower than we expected. This was driven by Power, lower by about $350 million on expanded scope and BOP, aero, and reciprocating engines that did not close in the quarter; about $400 million in Renewables, on lower wind turbines, which I'll cover more on shortly; and $300 million of softness in Oil & Gas; and $100 million of softness in convertible orders in our Energy Management business.

Most of the $1 billion was timing, and we expect it to convert in 2016. For the full year, organic revenue was up 3%.

What's laid out on this page is the impact of Alstom on the Power, Renewables, and Energy Management businesses. You can see the reported op profit of the businesses in the first column, the impact of Alstom in the middle column, and the op profit and the Vs excluding Alstom on the right.

Power on a standalone basis would have been down 5%; Renewables would've been down 54%; and Energy Management would have been up 4%. The outsized impact of Alstom in Energy Management business is due to the JV structure of Digital Energy and the Alstom Grid business.

We contributed positive earnings from Digital Energy to Alstom's business that had negative earnings. Remember, this is a 50-50 JV and we consolidate 100% of the revenue but record only 50% of the earnings.

In the case of Energy Management, the 17% organic V reflects the organic performance for the Power Conversion and Industrial Solutions business, which is how we report organic for this segment going forward. The organic V including Digital Energy would have been plus 19%.

In the quarter, the EPS impact of Alstom was breakeven, with a pretax loss of $234 million in the segment and an additional $160 million of deal cost and accounting items at Corporate offset by positive tax benefits.

Revenue was $2 billion and orders were $2.6 billion. As we look to 2016, no change to the guidance we gave you of $0.05 of EPS from Alstom.

Next I'll do the earnings walk as we've been doing for the last number of quarters so you understand the dynamics clearly on what's going on in earnings. Starting with the first column on the left and working down, Industrial operating net income was $4.6 billion and Vertical income was $438 million, for total Industrial plus Verticals operating earnings of $5.1 billion.

On the Other GE Capital line, we incurred $2.1 billion of cost in the quarter. This was driven by restructuring charges, the preferred dividend payment, headquarter runoff, operating expenses, and excess interest costs. We also took an impairment of about $800 million related to the Homer City power plant asset, which I'll cover more on, on the GE Capital page.

As a result, total operating earnings were $3 billion. Including nonoperating pension costs, continuing earnings were $2.6 billion.

We had a $3.7 billion of income in discontinued operations, principally related to the Synchrony gain. Adjusting for these items, net earnings for the quarter were $6.3 billion.

In the center and the far right columns you can see the associated EPS numbers and their variance versus prior year.

On the next page, Industrial other items for the quarter, we had $0.04 of charges related to Industrial restructuring and other items that were taken at Corporate. Charges were $567 million on a pretax basis, with $160 million of those charges related to the Alstom deal costs and accounting items.

We also had $1 billion of Industrial gains in the quarter which equated to $0.08 of EPS at the transactional tax rates. The pretax Signaling gain was $622 million, and the Appliance breakup fee was $175 million. Additionally, we sold our embedded controls business in Energy Management and our Clarient business in Healthcare.

On the bottom of the page you can see the total year restructuring gains profile. We incurred restructuring charges of $0.12 and had gains of $0.11, for a net charge of $0.01 for the year. This was $0.02 better than we communicated in December, driven by about $0.01 of lower restructuring, primarily Alstom-related, and slightly higher gains driven by predominantly tax at the transaction level.

For 2016 we expect gains in restructuring to largely offset for the year. However, there will be a quarterly variability in the timing.

As Jeff mentioned, we signed the Appliances transaction, which we expect to contribute about $0.20 of gain midyear this year. That, combined with some smaller transactions, should yield gains of about $0.25 in 2016.

We will use this opportunity to continue to invest in improving the Industrial margins and costs. This will benefit us not only in 2016 but will position us well for 2017 and 2018.

Now I'll go through the segments, starting with the Power business. With the combination of Alstom into the Power segment, we have reorganized some of the sub-businesses, so I'll take a minute to walk through these changes.

First, the Thermal business was renamed Gas Power Systems. This business includes gas turbines and steam and generators for combined-cycle applications. Additionally, we move the Equipment side of our aero turbines business to Gas Power Systems.

Second, the Power Services business includes our PGS business and services related to aero turbines. The Distributed Power business now includes just our reciprocating engines and the Service businesses for Jenbacher and Waukesha. Additionally, as you know we have a standalone steam business that we acquired from Alstom.

Moving to the financial results, orders in the quarter of $9.6 billion, including $1 billion of Alstom orders, grew 40%. Excluding Alstom, orders were $8.6 billion, up 25%, with Equipment orders up 46% and Services up 8%.

Within Equipment orders, Gas Power Systems was higher by 60%, ex-Alstom. The increase was driven by orders for 55 gas turbines versus 41 last year and expanded scope including BOP for a large Saudi 7F order.

In the fourth quarter, we took new orders for 12 H-turbines versus two last year: five units in the US, four in Pakistan, and three in Asia. Our H backlog now totals 33, with an additional 49 technical selections for a total of 82 units.

Aero turbine orders were down 14% on 43 units versus 50 last year. Distributed Power engines were lowered by 12%, with weakness in Waukesha gas compression partly offset by strong orders in Jenbacher. Equipment OPI was strong at 6.7%, driven by H-turbine demand.

Service orders excluding Alstom grew 8% on higher installations, growth in multiyear contracts, and strong upgrades. AGP sold 42 for the quarter versus 26 a year ago, bringing total year orders on AGPs to 119.

Alstom orders, as I mentioned, totaled $1 billion, including two steam turbines and six HSRGs, one in conjunction with GE orders.

Ex-Alstom, Equipment backlog ended at $8.3 billion, up 15%. Service backlog grew 4% to $53 billion. In total, Power backlog ended the year at $62 billion ex-Alstom, and $77 billion with Alstom.

Core GE revenues were $6.2 billion, down 10%, and down 7% organically. Equipment revenues were down 25% driven by fewer gas turbine shipments, foreign exchange, and lower balance of plant.

In the quarter, the business shipped 28 gas turbines versus 44 a year ago. Total year shipments were 107 units. Lower units and lower BOP were driven by no repeat of the large Algerian deal in the fourth quarter of last year.

Service revenues were up 1%, driven by Power Services up 8%. AGPs were 35 in the quarter versus 24 a year ago, bringing total shipments to 104 for the year.

Strength in Power Service was partly offset by lower Distributed Power Service, down 15%. Alstom revenues in the quarter totaled $917 million, with $255 million from Equipment and $662 million from Services.

GE core operating profit was $1.7 billion, down 5%. The decrease was driven by lower volume and partially offset by positive value gap. Margins improved 140 basis points in the quarter.

Alstom operating profit was a loss of $80 million, reflecting operations, deal costs, and accounting adjustments. Given the scale of the Alstom consolidation on our first close, things went reasonably well. The core business came in a little lower on revenue than expected, driven by the timing of BOP and aero engine shipments; however, orders were better than expected on strong demand for both H and F products, particularly in Saudi and Pakistan.

2016 is a big execution year, with the Alstom integration, shipping approximately 24 H-turbines, and executing on our product cost strategy. In total, we expect to ship 110 gas turbines and 125 AGPs, with 60% to 65% of these units shipping in the second half of the year in 2016.

Next, I'll cover Renewables. Total Renewable orders were $2.5 billion in the quarter, up 1%. Excluding Alstom, orders were $2 billion, down 18%, and down 10% ex-foreign-exchange.

We took orders for 827 wind turbines versus 1,251 a year ago in the quarter. The decline was a result of lower US orders, partly driven by the strength in the fourth quarter of last year related to the PTC extension. This year, the PTC extension includes a multiyear phaseout.

Orders were also impacted by the shift from the 1.X product line to the new 2.X and 3.X products that drive fewer units but more megawatts. Additionally, we had three deals delayed to 2016 for a total of 240 turbines or about $550 million of orders.

Orders outside the US were up 19% ex-FX, and down 2% reported, with strength in Europe, the Middle East, and South Asia. Backlog in the Renewables core business ended at $7.1 billion, up 27% year-over-year.

Alstom renewable orders were $469 million in the quarter, with a large Hydro win of $400 million in China at the Three Gorges project. Alstom added $5.3 billion of backlog to the Renewables business.

Renewables revenue for the fourth quarter totaled $1.9 billion, lower by 16% and down 8% ex-exchange. The legacy GE business had revenue of $1.9 billion, down 20% reported and down 12% ex-foreign-exchange.

Core unit shipments were 847 in the quarter versus 1,081 last year. This was lower than expected as two deals for 165 turbines pushed into 2016.

Operating profit ex-Alstom was $125 million, down 54%. The decline was attributable to lower volume of 234 units, negative mix from the new 2.X product as we come down the cost curve, and foreign exchange. Alstom op-profit was a loss of $69 million.

In 2016 we expect to ship about 3,050 onshore turbines including 250 of Alstom wind units. As Jeff discussed earlier, 2016 organic revenues should be high single-digits to low double-digits depending on the mix of units shipped. Core op-profits should be flat to up slightly as the business is focused on improving the cost curve for the new 2.0 and 3.0 megawatt product launches and delivering $100 million of Alstom cost synergies.

Next on Aviation, global passenger air travel continues to grow robustly, up 6.7% November year-to-date. Both domestic and international markets are strong, particularly in the Middle East and Asia Pacific. Air freight volume grew 2.3% November year-to-date.

Orders in the fourth quarter of $6.8 billion were down 16%. Commercial engine orders were down 47%, as expected. We booked $1.9 billion of engine orders, including $100 million of GE90, $600 million of GEnx orders, $400 million of LEAP CFM orders, and $500 million of CF6 orders.

Commercial Equipment backlog ended the year at $29.5 billion, up 11%. Military Equipment orders of $353 million in the quarter were higher by 2 times on a large Navy F414 order.

Service orders were higher by 9% with strong Commercial Spares orders, up 10% to $39 million a day. CSAs were up 24% in the quarter.

Military services were down 20%. Services backlog ended the year at over $116 billion, up 15% versus last year.

Revenues of $6.7 billion were up 5%, with Commercial Equipment revenues down 5%. We shipped 59 GEnx units versus 77 last year, driven by schedule. We have no delinquencies to Boeing.

Military Equipment revenue was down 1%, and Services revenue was up strongly at 18% driven by Commercial Services up 24%. Operating profit grew 12% on strength in Services, positive value gap, and good cost productivity. Operating margin rates improved 160 basis points.

The Aviation team delivered another solid execution year. For the year, revenues grew 3%, operating profit grew 11%, and margins expanded 160 basis points.

Our share on each of our engine platforms is very strong, and the LEAP launch remains on track for midyear. We expect another solid year from David Joyce and the team at Aviation.

Next is Oil & Gas. This segment continues to operate in a very difficult environment, and we continue to be focused on being hypercompetitive on new opportunities and very aggressive on the cost structure.

For the fourth quarter, orders of $3.3 billion were down 35%, and down 28% organically. Equipment orders were down 52%, or 44% organically.

All segments had lower orders driven by delays and reduced CapEx spending, with the exception of our Downstream platform, which grew orders 51% reported and up 84% organically. For the other segments on a reported basis, Subsea was down 49%, TMS was down 78% and Surface was down 65%.

Service orders were down 17%, and down 13% organically. On a reported basis, TMS was down 24%, Surface was down 29%, Subsea was down 35%, and M&C was down 8%, partly offset by Downstream which grew service orders by 20%.

Not included in orders but included in backlog, TMS signed four new long-term service agreements totaling $1.5 billion in the quarter. Total backlog ended the year at about $23 billion, which was down 9% versus last year, and down 4% ex-exchange.

Revenues in the quarter were down 16% reported and down 6% organic. Foreign exchange reduced revenues $437 million in the quarter.

Equipment revenues were down 21% reported and 12% organically. By business, Surface was down 49%, TMS down 18%, Subsea down 15%. Organically, TMS was down 8% and Subsea was down 5%.

Service revenues were down 9% and flat organically, with M&C down 5%, offset by TMS up 22% organically.

Operating profit in the quarter was down 19% and down 7% organic. Foreign exchange in the quarter was a $93 million headwind. The business continued to deliver on cost reductions and deflation, which partially offset the negative volume and price.

Margin rates were down 70 basis points. On an organic basis, margins contracted 10 basis points.

The business executed an early and aggressive cost-out program beginning in 2014, delivering $600 million of cost-out during 2015. For the year, revenue and op profit were down 5% and up 1%, respectively, and organic margin rates actually expanded 90 basis points.

For 2016 our best view for revenues and op profit continues to be down 10% to 15%, most likely at the bottom end of that range, given the outlook for the industry and our view of volume and price. Our base plan at December outlook called for $400 million of cost-out in 2016 to get to the $1 billion run rate over 2015 and 2016. We are working another $400 million of additional cost-out reductions to offset the likely lower volume and price pressure.

We expect the first half to be tougher year-over-year versus the second half. Lorenzo and his team have executed very well in 2015, and we expect the business will continue to outperform on a relative basis in 2016.

Next up in Healthcare, orders of $5.2 billion were down 4%, but up 1% organically. Geographically, orders in the US were down 1%; Europe was down 8%, and up 4% ex-FX; and the Middle East region was down 4%, and up 5% ex-FX. China was down 6% reported and down 3% ex-FX.

Tenders in China continue to improve slowly. Year-over-year, tenders were flat after several quarters of contraction.

In terms of business lines, Healthcare systems orders were down 6% and down 1% excluding exchange. The US was down 2%, driven by lower molecular imaging and x-ray on tough comparisons, offset partially by strong MR, up 33%, and Ultrasound up 5% on new product upgrades.

Europe was down 8% reported, but grew 5% ex-foreign-exchange. Europe was up 5% ex-FX for the year and has seen six consecutive quarters of organic growth.

China orders were down 11% reported and down 9% excluding exchange. Our current outlook for 2016 is for orders growth in China as government tenders begin to rebound.

Life Sciences continued to perform very well. In the fourth quarter, orders grew 2%, up 8% ex-exchange. Within Life Sciences, bioprocess grew 16% ex-FX, with strength in Korea, China, and the US.

Healthcare revenues were down 3% reported, and up 3% ex-FX. Healthcare systems revenues were lower by 4% reported, and up 3% ex-FX. Life Sciences revenues grew 6% excluding exchange.

Operating profit was lower versus the fourth quarter of last year by 4% excluding exchange, and lower by 8% reported. Volume growth and cost productivity were more than offset by price and higher growth investments. Margin rates contracted 100 basis points in the quarter.

In 2016 we expect John and the Healthcare business to improve operationally in terms of earnings and margin rates. Our outlook is for the Life Science business to continue to grow strongly and profitably, and for the HCS business to execute their digital transformation and aggressively reduce product and service costs.

In Transportation, North American carloads were down 6.4% in the quarter, driven by very weak carloads in coal, down almost 20%, and petroleum down 13%. Intermodal volume was also down 1% in the quarter.

For the year, volume was down 2.2% driven by commodities, with intermodal higher by 2%. Lower volume and operational improvements have improved velocity on the rails on average 2.4 miles an hour; that's up 10% versus last year.

For our business, orders in the quarter were very strong, up 66% to $3.2 billion, driven by equipment orders up 113%. We took our largest order ever of 1,000 locos in India and also secured an order for 100 Tier 4s in the US.

Service orders were down 6% ex-Signaling, on lower overhaul volume driven by increased parked locos. Revenues were up 2% reported and up 11% ex-Signaling. Equipment revenues were higher by 17%, 27% organically, principally driven by locomotives, partly offset by Services down 8% on lower overhauls.

Op profit was higher in the quarter by 18% ex-Signaling, and up 8% reported. Increased loco volume, value gap, and productivity drove earnings higher. Margins improved 100 basis points reported and 120 basis points organically.

The Transportation team delivered a tremendous year. Excluding the Signaling sale, they grew revenues 7%, operating profit 16%, and improved margins 150 basis points. They launched and delivered 425 Tier 4 locomotives on-time, on-cost, and the performance has significantly exceeded customer expectations.

2016 is going to be a more challenging year, with softer demand in the US and in the commodity markets. We shipped 985 locos in 2015 and expect to ship about 800 in 2016.

The team is executing an aggressive cost plan to address the lower volume. We expect the business to be down mid single-digits on op profit in 2016.

On Energy Management, as I mentioned earlier, describing results for Energy Management is complicated by the contribution of our Digital Energy business to the Grid JV.

For financial reporting purposes, we'll report 100% of the Grid JV's orders and revenues but only report 50% of their earnings. Going forward, we will report results on this basis; but all our organic calculations will include only Industrial Solutions and the Power Conversion business.

Orders in the quarter were $2.6 billion, up 15% reported. Of the $2.6 billion, $1.1 billion was from the Grid business, with Alstom contributing $716 million and Digital Energy business contributing $342 million. Digital Energy orders were down 10% reported and down 8% organically.

Power Conversion orders were down 17%, and down 11% organically on no repeat of large Renewable orders in the fourth quarter of last year. For the total year, Power Conversion orders were very strong up 19% organically.

Industrial Solutions orders in the quarter were down 17% reported and down 11% organically, driven by foreign exchange and dispositions. North America demand in the quarter was weak across all Industrial Solution segments.

Backlog for the quarter ended at $11.7 billion.

Reported revenues of $2.4 billion were higher by 20%. Grid Solutions revenue totaled $952 million, inclusive of $393 million of Digital Energy revenue.

Industrial Solutions revenues were down 8%, and down 4% organically. Power Conversion was down 6%, but up 9% organically.

Reported op profit for the Energy Management segment was $33 million, which includes the effects of establishing the Grid JV and Alstom's results. Before the effects of Alstom, as I covered earlier, Energy Management earned $118 million of op profit, up 4%, driven by productivity and the gain on sale in our meters business, partly offset by lower Industrial Solutions volume.

The contribution of our Digital Energy business to the Grid JV, combined with the Alstom Grid operating results, equaled the loss which we recorded at 50% or $5 million.

Next we announced last week and Jeff spoke about it earlier, we have an agreement to sell our Appliance unit to Haier, which we expect to close midyear. Fourth-quarter results for both Appliances & Lighting had revenue essentially flat. Appliance revenue was up slightly from last year, and Lighting saw a flat revenue and growth organically. LED growth in the quarter was 28%.

Operating profit for the segment was up 28%, with very strong performance in Appliances, up 51% on strong cost performance, and up 4% organically in Lighting, but down 10% reported, driven by foreign exchange.

The Appliance team had a strong year, essentially doubling profits and expanding margins significantly. They've also done an outstanding job managing the business through this disposition process.

Lastly I'll cover GE Capital. Our Verticals businesses earned $438 million this quarter; that's up 7% from prior year, driven by operations and higher tax benefits, partially offset by lower gains. Portfolio quality remains stable, and the Aviation portfolio finished the quarter with zero delinquencies and only two AOGs.

Working down the page, GE Capital Corporate generated a $2 billion loss in the quarter, principally driven by restructuring and other charges related to the GE Capital transformation, preferred dividend payments, excess interest costs -- including the costs associated with the debt exchange we completed in October -- and headquarters operating costs.

In the current quarter we took an impairment of approximately $800 million on our Homer City coal-fired power plant in the US related to a decision to exit the investment over time. This investment was not strategic to the Verticals go-forward business, and this action will align its portfolio more closely to the GE Store going forward. This charge is within the framework of the $23 billion charge to effect the GE Capital transformation.

Discontinued operations, which now includes the Consumer segment, generated earnings of $3.7 billion, primarily driven by a $3.4 billion gain associated with the Synchrony split off as well as the earnings and gains from discontinued operations. Overall, GE Capital reported $2.1 billion of earnings, and we ended the quarter with $167 billion of ENI, excluding liquidity. The Verticals ended the quarter with $79 billion of ENI excluding liquidity.

Our liquidity levels remain very strong at $91 billion. Our Basel 3 Tier 1 common ratio was 14.5%, which is up 80 basis points from the third quarter after paying dividends of $3.9 billion during the quarter, bringing our total dividends in 2015 to $4.3 billion.

Asset sales remained ahead of plan, and we ended the year with $157 billion of signed deals and $104 billion of deals closed. Overall, Keith and the GE Capital team have executed ahead of schedule on all aspects versus the plan we shared with you back in April. We expect to be largely complete by the end of 2016 and are on track to file for SIFI rescission in the first quarter of this year.

And with that I'll turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Let me end by going through our operating framework. This is the framework I showed in December. We have no change for increasing our goals for disposition cash.

I know a lot has happened early in the year, but 2015 closed about where we thought it would. So let's start with organic growth of 2% to 4%. We finished 2015 with $315 billion of backlog.

Earlier I outlined how we achieve those goals even in the face of a tougher Oil & Gas market. We have broad business and geographic diversity. And Service, which is 80% of our earnings, should continue to grow by 3% to 5% in 2016.

We had two months of Alstom in 2015, and so far so good. We think our synergies are achievable.

And with the Appliances transaction we're now looking at the ability to fund incremental restructuring. In addition, this gives us upside to our disposition cash for the year.

All of our goals for GE Capital remain on track. Our dispositions are a year ahead of plan. Capital dividends are the key to returning about $26 billion to you this year, and we plan to file for SIFI de-designation later this quarter.

We're acting to get more out of this economy. We're aggressively managing our cost structure to capitalize on deflation.

We have a very strong balance sheet with substantial cash. We have the ability to finance our Industrial Products, which is a huge advantage.

Our diversity in both regions and markets allows us to outperform single-purpose competitors. We can move production to the lowest cost regions and capitalize on currency or excess capacity.

We have all the elements to help ourselves in a tough economy: buyback capacity, substantial restructuring funding, and Services growth. And we've continued to invest. Our long-term commitments for R&D, globalization, investments like Alstom have built a huge backlog.

Just to recap some of our highlights for 2016: double-digit EPS growth; returning $26 billion of cash; Alstom integration; Digital execution. There is really a lot of value here in GE.

So Matt, now let me turn it back over to you for some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. Operator, please open up the lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. One of the things that's changed in the last couple months is just the severe currency devaluations we've seen in some of the emerging markets out there. But your order book in EM seems to be pretty good.

I mean, are you pricing -- can you just give us a sense of current and past? Are you pricing contracts in US dollars? Are you pricing them in local currency, or is there a mix? Just a little color there.

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, gosh, maybe I'll do a little bit on the geographic side, Scott, and then give you a sense. We had a very strong fourth quarter in the Middle East. That was a lot driven by Power.

Pricing actually was pretty good on those transactions for the quarter. I'd say on balance the pricing we've experienced on Power, Rail, Aviation, those show up in the pricing in the backlog and the order book. So I don't think we've seen really any diminution of pricing in the emerging market orders.

As you know, guys, our stuff is lumpy, so there's big transactions. But I don't -- we don't see any of that. I don't know, Jeff, would you add to that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Just a couple things. What we do in China, there's been very little -- albeit a little bit more lately -- the differences in exchange between the US and China are pretty de minimis. A lot of our businesses, like Aviation, are dollar-based.

Then obviously in Oil & Gas and a number of Energy Management and a number of our other businesses we do work in local currency. So Brazil, where we're in Brazil and Europe and the euro we've had a little bit of a currency impact, and that's what you hear us reporting when we give you reported versus organic.

On the orders front, I don't think we've seen that big an impact. When you look at orders in the quarter, particularly in Power, orders' price has been very, very good, very strong, particularly on the H-turbine, largely because we're selling out slots.

SCOTT DAVIS: Yes, makes sense. Then just moving to Oil & Gas, how's $30 oil impact your 2016 outlook? I guess what I mean is that you have -- I mean, 2015 was pretty amazing with the cost-out. I mean, you haven't seen decremental margins at all in that business.

Is that sustainable at -- are there breakpoints in oil prices where it's just not sustainable anymore to maintain that type of drop-through?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, Scott, what I would say is that, just on a macro comment, there's still a lot of efficiency opportunities we have in our Oil & Gas business, both in the supply chain and -- so I think what Jeff talked about earlier in terms of the ability to do incremental restructuring, it's still out there. Then I would just again segment our business into project-based business, where we're still in execution mode -- and that's probably 70% or 80% of our total revenues -- and then businesses like Drilling and Surface that are probably the most susceptible as oil pricing goes down to $30, where trying to stay ahead on the cost curve is going to be very difficult in the future.

We just need to be flexible as -- at a $30 environment, the one we see today. But that's a very small portion of our overall Oil & Gas business.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I would just add -- I'll just expound a little bit on what Jeff said. If you think about the business, our long-term, more contractual, and project-based stuff -- turbomachinery, Downstream, and Subsea -- that's about 65% of our revenue in 2016. And of those revenues, more than 70% of those are in backlog.

If you add the M&C business on top of that, which tends to be more flow and convertible, but it's about roughly 50% exposure to Oil & Gas and 50% to non-Oil & Gas. That's 85% of revenue; and when you get M&C you've got about a little bit north of 65% of next year's revenues in backlog.

So to Jeff's point, the real short-term exposure -- today anyway, as we look at it -- is Surface and Drilling, and they are very susceptible to volatility around what they see for convertible demand in any period of time. But it's 15% of the revenue.

JEFF IMMELT: But again, Jeff, I'd come back and -- because of Appliances, guys, we have kind of $2 billion-plus of restructuring that wasn't in our plan when we stood in front of you in December.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So let me just go back then --

JEFF IMMELT: And some of that's going to go to Oil & Gas, yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I was going to follow on with that. The way we think about it, within the range of down 10% to 15%, everything else being equal we may be at the lower end of the range. We may be closer to down 15%.

We came into the year; we told you we had a plan to take $400 million of cost-out on top of the $600 million of cost-out we delivered in 2015 for a total of $1 billion over the two years, 2015 and 2016. We're now going after an incremental $400 million on top of that.

So now we're trying to deliver $800 million of cost-out in 2016, and Appliances is an important part of our ability to do that. So we're going to invest more aggressively in 2016 in restructuring the Oil & Gas footprint than we even did in 2015.

So that gives us, Scott, some ability to moderate potentially, if revenues are even lower or at the lower end of the range. We can moderate the impact on profitability.

SCOTT DAVIS: Yes, it sounds like Appliances was timed just right. So good luck. Congrats, guys; I'll step off. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thank you. Just a quick question firstly on Alstom. The core business that you say lost money on the EBIT line in Q4, you've talked about $200 million of core Alstom profit in 2016. How quickly do you think the business goes back to profits? Or is it sort of a second-half turnaround on the core Alstom business?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I think that we expect -- we're off and running on the synergies as we speak. Having said that, most of those synergies and most of the improvement in the core operations is going to happen with -- will accelerate over the course of the year. I think we feel very good about the guidance we gave you in December around the outlook for Alstom in 2016, a $0.05 contribution. That today feels very solid.

I'd go back to what we said about 2015 on that call. We came in almost line item by line item virtually right on top of what we told you. We were a little better in tax than we estimated, but the other elements of the costs and the operations we talked about on that call is exactly where we came in.

It ended up -- Alstom in the fourth quarter ended up being essentially breakeven with tax or zero drag on EPS. So I think right now we are on course, and the benefits and the improvement will accelerate as you would expect over the course of the year.

JEFF IMMELT: I would echo what Jeff said, Julian. Look, as you guys can see, this is a large, complicated transaction to get it integrated. But when we look underlying in terms of customer response and geographic opportunities and things like that, I think this is everything we thought it would be. So now we've just got to get out there and execute.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great; thanks. Then just a quick follow-up on Healthcare. The profits there were down I think about 9% in the second half of 2015. You're guiding profits up in 2016.

What is it that's really swinging there from the second half to the next 12 months?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think, Julian, when I think about Healthcare in 2016, this should be low to mid single-digits organic revenue grower with margin enhancement, okay? That's what investors should expect in Healthcare.

I think when you look at the second half of last year, we allowed the business to spend incrementally on NPI, to make some changes in their IT business, to invest more. So basically I think we allowed them to increase their spending in the second half.

That should be opportunities when we look in the future: better VCP, better NPIs. And I expect Healthcare to have a decent 2016.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We're going to deliver a better product cost profile in 2016.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Andrew Kaplowitz, Citi.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, guys. Jeff, can you talk about your ability to grow margin for the Company in 2016? If you look at 4Q, you had 110 basis points of gross margin improvement ex-Alstom, despite declining organic sales. Your value gap and mix give you 100 basis points of that improvement.

So given higher-margin Services orders are growing faster than Equipment and raw material costs are coming down, could you sustain the 100 basis points you saw in the quarter from mix and value gap as you move forward?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Great question. Our goal, what we've told folks is year on year we have a target to improve margins 50 basis points. That's true as well in 2016.

The geography of where that improvement comes from I think will be largely the same. I think value gap will contribute a little bit less in 2016 to the margin expansion. I think variable cost productivity or productivity in general will -- or product cost, if you will -- will contribute more.

Then Corporate and SG&A will also contribute in 2016. So we're still on the 50 basis point march at op profit and down through Corporate costs or Industrial margins. But the mix between what value gap contributes and what we get out of productivity is going to change a little bit.

JEFF IMMELT: I would also say, guys, last year was the first year of our IC plan, what we call the AIP. More than half the businesses have gross margin targets; they all have margin targets. This has been really a good driver of these results, and we think we've set the bar appropriate in 2016 to get the same kind of benefits.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Then I would say on mix, you mentioned Services growth for Equipment. That's important actually, there's no question about it. We need our big Service businesses, PGS and Aviation, to grow and deliver what they -- because we have these product launches. So we've got the H-turbine coming next year; we've got a little over 100 LEAP engines launching next year; and we've got the 2.X and 3.X wind turbines going. So continuing the momentum in Services is very, very important to the overall story.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ: Jeff, if I could just follow up on Service for a second, your organic Service orders slowed slightly in the quarter from 4Q versus 3Q, but still good at 3%. You guys are guiding a 3% to 5% Service growth.

Can you talk about the sustainability of your Service business, especially in Power in the current environment?

And how much is Digital really helping? Because it seems like robust growth there.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, look, I mean I would start again with the Digital focus which is growing 20%-ish, not just in Power but in other businesses. But we also have very targeted programs in all of our businesses to go after the aged installed base.

Alstom brings unique capabilities to the Power business. Aviation guys, we're still seeing good revenue passenger miles; there's lots of opportunities for our Aviation business to continue to grow.

Healthcare is actually, after several years of flat revenue in Services, has actually grown 3% or 4% the last few quarters. So we're very programmatic in the Service side.

I think we see that continuing next year, with Digital being the number-one driver. At the end of the day I think in an environment like this, this is the ballast for the Company, is the installed base.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: The only thing I'd add, Jeff, is the upgrades. We think we'll do at least 125 AGPs next year and every one of the businesses is really pushing on the upgrades.

ANDREW KAPLOWITZ: Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Just a question on restructuring. Now that you have this extra $0.20 from the Appliances, I'm sure you did have some restructuring built into your number before, because you were expecting Appliance sale in the mid of the year.

But given that the gain brings restructuring and you have a lot more restructuring this year, does that mean that there is more cushion to the numbers? Or does that mean that the core guidance is actually reflecting more macro headwinds?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Okay, so -- in our core plan we expected to do about $1.7 billion pretax of restructuring in 2016; we will double that with Appliances. So we will do a lot heavier restructuring -- first of all, we're going to try to accelerate a lot of what we we're going to do in Alstom in 2017 and 2018. As much of that as we can execute we're going to try to accelerate.

We're going to do more, as I mentioned earlier, in Oil & Gas. And every one of the businesses we're going to do more around the product Service cost footprint of the Company.

So it does both things. When we spend that incremental money, there will be some amount of benefit in 2016; but maybe even more importantly, it's a great base to work from for 2017 and 2018 and will help us continue to deliver these margin improvements that you've seen.

JEFF IMMELT: I would add, Andrew -- look, I'm going to say the same thing today that I said a year ago. Every one of our businesses has a very detailed incentive compensation plan that internally, just like last year, rolls up to more than we talk about externally. That's the way we've run the place; that's the way we continue to run the place.

I just -- I look at the ability to do incremental restructuring as a good opportunity for us to continue to deliver good results.

ANDREW OBIN: Just a follow-up question, are you guys seeing any signs of stabilization in China? Because that seems to be a big concern. I apologize if I missed your remarks in the beginning.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, look, I think for us the first thing I'd say: there's no one China, right? I don't think macro anymore when I talk about China. I think micro.

I think about Aviation, Healthcare, Power, Mining. That's how I think everybody's got to start thinking about China.

Now, Aviation remains superstrong, right. I think on the Power side it's going to become more predominantly a gas turbine market. It's been cyclical, but I like how we're positioned in the future in China there.

The third business is Healthcare. Healthcare has had a tough couple years. I think the sense of our team is that we feel that's stabilizing.

By tough I mean it's gone from up 10% to 15%, maybe flat to down slightly, right. So our team I think has seen some signs of stabilization there.

That to me is the swinger, let's say, on China. But Aviation is superstrong even today.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks; good morning, guys. Maybe following up on Andrew's question slightly differently, I guess as you go into 2016 and take a look back into 2015, Industrial EBIT grew very low single-digits this past year. And as we head into 2016 there are a lot of headwinds, whether it's orders down, mix is becoming a bigger headwind, and then you've clearly -- Oil & Gas pressures are intensifying.

So what I'm trying to understand is how much of the incremental improvement in Industrial segment EBIT is going to be driven by the restructuring actions that you are taking?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, let me go back and try to help you with that in terms of what 2015 was. In the fourth quarter, our restructuring efforts delivered a little over $220 million of benefits, and those are restructurings that started in 2014 and some of them were executed in 2015, etc.

For the year, that was about $1 billion of value, if you will, against margins. In 2016, we'll roll forward and, based on what we did in 2015 and the benefits realizing in 2016 and the incremental spend in 2016, everything else being equal, we would expect that or more -- and more -- to flow to Industrial EBIT in 2016.

Yes, it's part and parcel about remaking the competitiveness of this Company around products and Service cost. It's critically important. And our track record, I think, over the last couple years of these businesses delivering back the margin improvements based on the restructuring spend, I think has been on balance very good.

JOE RITCHIE: Yes. No, that's fair. And it has been good and clearly should help provide a tailwind for 2017 and 2018.

Maybe one follow-up question, Jeff, just a reminder on the $35 billion and the composition of the $35 billion dividend from the asset sales and leverage. Has that changed at all, just given that asset prices have come down a little bit to start this year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No. Keith and the team have done an absolutely remarkable job executing against this plan. As you know Jeff mentioned and I'll just reiterate a little bit, just to baseline everybody: $157 billion of signings, $104 billion of asset closings in 2015. In 2016, we'll sign something on order of magnitude of another $50 billion in deals.

We expect more than half of that to happen hopefully here in the first half of the year. And we'll close -- we'll get wire transfers for about another $100 billion of closings in 2016.

So far we're tracking slightly better on a price to tangible book what we presented in April of next year. And we think, everything else being equal, as we sit here today with $50 billion of signings to go, all of which are in process, that we're going to end up at or maybe incrementally slightly better on the price to tangible book when we get through the end of this process, hopefully at the end of 2016.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay; thanks, guys. I'll get back in queue.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning. You've covered a lot of ground. But one of the things on page 4, the simplification SG&A cost being flat in the fourth quarter, just maybe run us through the dynamics there in terms of it coming down off of the prior savings you've been seeing in quarter after quarter there.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Sure. We had $224 million of SG&A structural cost-out in the quarter. That was down 7% year-over-year.

For the year we were down about $800 million or about 6%. The reason you see it as not contributing to the margin performance is because that $224 million came out at about the same rate as volume came down in the quarter.

So it's not that we didn't get cost out; we absolutely did. It's not that we lost any momentum. $224 million is about the middle of what we've been each of the last four quarters -- actually probably closer to the last eight quarters.

It's just that volume was down and so it didn't contribute. We expect -- I think we said in December, we expect to improve SG&A to sales in 2016, and so you should expect it to show up on that line as contributing to the margin expansion in 2016, as it did for 30 basis points this year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, sounds good. Then I just wanted to clarify on the pricing again. When you point to the 3.8% in Power and you talk about the HA turbine driving a lot of that, you guys are -- how are you thinking about like-for-like pricing versus mix there?

That HA is all like-for-like pricing? It's not driving the mix?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, that's all like-for-like.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, all right. Then just --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Go ahead, I'm sorry.

STEVEN WINOKER: No, go ahead.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I was just going to say I think what the team has done on this H launch is pretty remarkable. All the growth in the heavy-duty gas market is this class of turbine. The gigawatts that get added over the next couple of years, 75% of that is going to come from this class of turbine.

They've gone from no share to a very high level of share, and this is about $300 million of price in the quarter on the H. It's effectively we're selling slots out. So it's been a terrific story.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay; I'll pass it on. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Good morning. Just back to the whole restructuring dynamic and understanding the bridge into 2016, so I think your guide for 2016 roughly implies about $19 billion in segment OP, if we use the December construct.

So just building off $18 billion in 2015, with over $1 billion in restructuring savings and Alstom of $600 million, is that how we should be thinking about it? So you have core erosion elsewhere in the portfolio of $400 million or $500 million?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't think so, Jeff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't have that reconciliation in front of me, Jeff. We will get back to you on that.

But here's how we thought about the bridge is, when we go from 2015 to 2016 we will get incremental restructuring savings. As a V we earned $1 billion of restructuring savings in 2015; we will be better than that in 2016. But it won't be $1 billion better than it was in 2015.

We'll get margin expansion and organic growth at 2% to 4%. And the only decrement, if you will, as you describe it, is we are overcoming the launch cost and the launch margins associated with the LEAP, and the H, the wind turbines, etc., etc.

So we will grow op profit next year. I don't have the bridge exactly in front of me at the moment, but --

JEFF IMMELT: But segment by segment, Power is up ex-Alstom.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Right.

JEFF IMMELT: Renewables up ex-Alstom; Aviation up; Healthcare up; Transportation I think we said down slightly; Energy Management up. So segment by segment, Jeff, I think it tracks to the positive operating growth for next year.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Okay. Roughly $19 billion is a good place to be, though, on the segment side?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, $19 billion -- it's roughly $19 billion. A little better than $19 billion.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Then just back to the macro, can you give us a little bit of sense on how much of your backlog is in Middle Eastern areas or areas where you've got really resource pressures on government budgets and the like?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I mean, I think, Jeff, the -- let me just -- I don't have the regional split on backlog.

Now, obviously, our Power business, obviously from Power Generation's perspective has got a big backlog associated with the Middle East. Our Oil & Gas business has a backlog that's associated with West Africa, Brazil, and the Middle East.

We have a big backlog in Aviation associated with the Emirates, Qatar Airlines, etc. I don't think in the case of Power or Aviation that we have concerns about our Middle East backlog in any way, shape, or form.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I was going to reflect on that to a certain extent. I think, Jeff, we've always talked about the resource-rich regions being more or less $30 billion or something like that for the Company. But in the fourth quarter we had a record orders quarter in Saudi Arabia. Our business in Latin America has -- because again demand for electricity has grown 8% last year; good Aviation backlogs; things like that.

So I think the diversification of the mix of businesses we have is still pretty positive, even in regions like Saudi Arabia.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Right. Then maybe just one last one. The order price index info is helpful. I wonder if you could share with us the price impact on revenues in the quarter.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. Give me one second. In revenues in the quarter we had price of about $150 million. About $100 million of that came from Power; Aviation was strong as well; and then as you would expect, Healthcare had negative price of roughly $100 million. Most everybody had modest positive price.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you; good morning, everyone. Hey, just had a couple of cleanup questions here.

Just to go back to the Appliances deal, we've gotten a lot of questions about this. That the deal you struck with Haier, significantly more favorable than Electrolux; gain of $0.20 versus $0.06.

How did the deal all come together? I know they are not directly comparable, but just give us a sense on how it played out.

JEFF IMMELT: Well again, Deane, I think we were -- we followed the process with Electrolux until December 7, so that kind of ran its course. That gave us the ability to look to see what other outcomes would be important for the business.

After December 7 there was a tremendous amount of interest in the business. I think what you have to keep in mind is that the EBITDA of the business is better over the -- while we were in the process. The multiples in the industry improved while we were in the process.

And I think what we always knew was true about the Appliance business is it had a favorable position in the North American market that was valued by people on the outside, and that's what we saw in the 30 days post December 7.

I would add, Deane, we wanted to move quickly because the business had been for sale for two years. It just -- there was a real reason for us to get this transaction; and we're pleased with the way it turned out.

DEANE DRAY: Yes, congratulations on that. Just a last question for me. I know you're out of the quarterly guidance business, but given the expectations with the higher restructuring and they won't be timed with gains, what does the first-quarter dynamics look like with regard to gains in restructuring?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Today we think we're going to have about $700 million of restructuring in the first quarter. We'll have some very modest, very modest gains in the first quarter. So we'll have naked restructuring in the quarter of between $600 million and $700 million pretax in the quarter.

You want me to do the full first quarter? Here's what I'd say, is when you look at the profile for the year, when we talked about gas turbines and Power systems, I mentioned the fact that a lot of our volume was in the second half of the year. The first quarter in the Power business, we're going to be down significantly on gas turbines; last year we had the tail of end of Algeria and we had some Egyptian shipments in the first quarter.

So even though we're going to be up on shipments year-over-year for the total year for Power systems, the first quarter is going to be light on gas turbines year-over-year.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning. Hey, Jeff, maybe a little more on the core margin expansion in the Power business, the 140 basis points. You talk about positive value gap and mix. Maybe a little more color there. What's really driving that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. A big part of it is the strength in their Service businesses. PGS was very strong in the quarter; that was important.

We also shipped fewer gas turbines year-over-year in the quarter, from a mix perspective. That certainly helped them expand margins in the quarter the 140 basis points. Their value gap was really strong.

JEFF IMMELT: I mean just some context here, guys. Our organic growth for the total Company in the fourth quarter of 2014 was up 9%. Organic growth for Power was up 20% or something in the fourth quarter last year, and that was a lot of the Algerian shipments that we had that were product shipments in 2014.

So to Jeff's point we had, let's say, much more difficult comps from a revenue standpoint but much easier comps from a margin standpoint when you compare fourth quarter of 2015 to fourth quarter of 2014.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay; yes, that makes a lot of sense. Then just on Corporate cost, got some benefits there in the quarter. I know it's an initiative that you're working on. Are we at a reasonable run rate now, or is there a lot more to go there in 2016?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, we're going to be down in 2016. We finished the year at $2.1 billion of Corporate operating cost. We gave you a range of $2.0 billion to $2.2 billion. We're running the place to the bottom of that range.

And, no, we're not close to the end of what we're doing around Corporate.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, good morning, guys. We're getting a little bit late here so I'll keep this brief. Just back on the restructuring, obviously a huge number for this year, Jeff.

Should we -- you've got $0.08 in for next year, 2017, for Alstom restructuring. Should we assume that the bulk of that $0.08 comes into this year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't think it will be the bulk of it. We're going to try and move as much of the restructuring into 2016 as we can.

All of that restructuring -- you don't just write a check and then get the benefits. There's actually all kinds of execution around it.

So we're going to try to execute as much of the restructuring list, actions if you will, that were planned as 2017 actions -- we're going to try to do as many of those in 2016 on top of what we already planned, as possible.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's helpful.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Nigel, with this amount of restructuring this year, we're going to get some benefits yet this year. The bulk of them are going to come in 2017; but we'll still get some restructuring actual benefits in 2016 just based on the quality of the projects we've gotten.

NIGEL COE: Okay; that's helpful. Then just quickly on the -- you gave a little bit of color on 1Q. Obviously 4Q was noisy with some of the project delays and also Alstom accounting.

I'm just thinking on 1Q: do you still see the scope for some backlog pushout into the back half of the year? And to what extent do we still have some of these accounting issues on Alstom in 1Q?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, we're going to continue -- we're not done purchase accounting, okay? From an accounting perspective, we've owned the Company for two months; so we've done a significant amount of work getting the initial purchase accounting done, but we're not complete yet. That really -- I'm hopeful that we'll be done with all that in the first half of this year.

I think in terms of how our volume lays out, I mean, we're a little more back-end-loaded this year maybe than we were last year, just the way the order book wants to play out.

JEFF IMMELT: But I would say to a certain extent, guys, things like just the change in PTC probably pushed some wind turbines from 2015 to 2016. That's un-forecastable, but it's generally a positive.

So again I think by and large we feel pretty good about how our backlog lays out and the integrity of the backlog. Again, we're not Pollyanna-ish about the Oil & Gas market, and we need to be fast on our feet as it pertains to how that business rolls out the rest of the year.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. Thank you, Jeff. A couple of quick announcements before we wrap up. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our Investor website.

We're going to host a Healthcare investor meeting in New York City on March 11. And our first-quarter 2016 earnings webcast will be on April 22. Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, thanks again, guys. I think it was -- given the first time we closed Alstom this was more complicated than we like. Again, that will get better as time goes on.

So it took us a long time to work through it, but I think if you stand back and look at 2016 we've got a lot of self-help in place with restructuring, big backlog, share repurchase. And we feel good about double-digit earnings growth, about returning a lot of cash back to investors, and about really continuing to drive our strategy into the future. So we feel great about the Company and we look forward to having more conversations. Great, Matt; thanks.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160123ec1m00108
  


 HD
 Q3  2015  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,262 words
   PD
16 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Ellen, and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning and welcome to our third-quarter earnings webcast. We issued the press release, presentation, and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes.

For today's webcast we have Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt; Vice Chairman and CEO of GE CapitalKeith Sherin; and our CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Now I'll turn it over to Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt, and good morning, everyone. The GE team had a good quarter in a slow-growth and volatile environment. Organic performance was strong, and Industrial revenue growth was up 4%. Profit was up 9%. Year-to-date Industrial CFOA is up 23%, and Industrial segment margins are up 100 basis points.

Let me make a few comments on how we are seeing our markets more broadly. The US is still okay and Europe is appreciably better. Meanwhile, growth markets are facing some headwinds in resource pricing and currency. Nonetheless, we're positioned to win some big fourth-quarter deals in these markets in locomotives and Power, Aviation, and Power Conversion, which should support our growth objectives; and service provides a great buffer in times of uncertainty.

We made substantial progress on GE's portfolio transformation in the quarter. Alstom has been approved by the European Commission and we expect this to close soon. The Fed has approved the Synchrony separation, and we expect to commence the share exchange next week.

The net effect of this should be to return about $20 billion to investors in the form of share reduction. Our GE Capital portfolio sales are ahead of plan; and with the Wells announcement, we now expect 2015 signings of $140 billion to $150 billion. We believe this will facilitate an incremental dividend from GE Capital of $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter or $3 billion for the year.

So if you look at our execution, we're tracking to meet or beat all of our critical goals. We're reconfirming our earnings outlook that we gave in the second quarter, when we boosted the low end of our range. And our CFOA and cash return to investors will be at the high end of our framework.

Keith and I will now take you through a deeper dive on the portfolio moves. For Alstom, all the major regulators have now approved GE's purchase of Alstom with remedies. We're comfortable with the outcome, as the economic and strategic impact of the deal remains intact.

We will divest to Ansaldo the GT26 new units, and the GT36 technology, and 34 of 720 service contracts in the installed base. We will retain the ability to do service for competitive units through PSM.

Financially, we still expect to achieve $3 billion of synergies with $0.05 to $0.08 of earnings accretion in 2016, and $0.15 to $0.20 by 2018. Alstom grows GE's installed base by 50%. In addition, they will substantially improve our position in renewables and grid.

Alstom will achieve a strong return for investors, and we will give you more operating details on Alstom at a special meeting we plan to hold in late November.

Now over to Keith to give you an update on the GE Capital portfolio moves.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, AND CHAIRMAN & CEO OF GE CAPITAL, INC., GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff, and good morning, everyone. As Jeff mentioned, we have received formal approval from the Federal Reserve to move forward with the split off of Synchrony Financial as a standalone company. This is the final step in a project which we started two years ago and is a key component in the transformation of GE Capital.

We can't talk about the specific financial terms of this exchange until we launch. However, to provide some context, on the left side of the page we show the timeline and mechanics for the exchange.

We plan to launch the split exchange next week, subject to market conditions. The offer period remains open for 20 business days from the time of launch, and at launch we're going to set the offer terms for the exchange -- meaning the split discount that holders will receive on Synchrony stock when they exchange their GE shares -- plus the exchange cap ratio, which is the maximum discount between GE and Synchrony shares set at the time of the launch.

The pricing for the split exchange will happen on days 16 to 18, and the offer closes on day 20, which would occur the week of November 16.

Based on precedents from other exchanges that have taken place and the current stock prices of GE and Synchrony, we anticipate to receive proceeds of between $18 billion and $21 billion, which translate to a buyback of 650 million to 750 million shares in GE. The range in outcomes is determined by the split discount, the exchange ratio, and the movement of GE and Synchrony shares prior to and during the exchange up to pricing.

We anticipate that we'll record a gain in GE Capital in discontinued operations. And that gain, the size of which is dependent on the final split discount, will be embedded in the proceeds for the buyback, so it will not have any impact on GECC capital ratios.

I'd really like to thank Margaret Keane and her team for the terrific work they've done to position Synchrony for this separation. In the next 30 days, we plan to retire 6% to 7% of GE shares.

Next I'll give you an update on our progress executing the plan that we announced on April 10. On the top left of this chart is an update on the portfolio sales.

We are ahead of plan. In the first six months since the announcement we've signed deals on $126 billion worth of ENI. Since 2Q we've signed $58 billion worth of transactions, the largest being the $30 billion sale of our distribution finance, vendor finance, and direct lending businesses to Wells Fargo which we announced earlier this week.

We gave previous guidance that we would sign $120 billion to $150 billion of deals by year-end, and we're now raising the low end of that range to $140 billion, given the progress we've made. We have closed $60 billion of sales to date, and we're on track to close $100 billion by year-end.

On the bottom left you can see our current view versus the goals that we established back on April 10. We're ahead of plan on asset sales and we expect to largely be done with our exits by year-end 2016 instead of 2017. Overall, were on track to deliver the $35 billion of capital back to the Parent.

You can see on the top right that our pricing to date on the $126 billion is slightly ahead of plan, at 1.4 times price to tangible book. And the deal that we announced with Wells earlier this week was also at approximately 1.4 times price to tangible book.

As a result of the accelerated sales, we are giving up some of the future income from the total plan. But overall, with our asset and liability management actions, including the debt exchange that we completed, our current estimate of capital to be returned is still $35 billion.

In terms of timing of dividends, as we close sales transactions in the fourth quarter we expect our Tier 1 common ratio to exceed 14% and we plan to pay a dividend of approximately $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter, subject to our governance process. That would result in $3 billion for 2015, which is $2 billion higher than the original plan. In addition, we're on track for the $18 billion of dividends that we previously said would come in 2016.

Our goal is to apply for SIFI de-designation, which, based on our view of transaction closings, our target is to file in the first quarter of 2016.

If you combine the Synchrony split with the 2015 transaction closings, we expect to end 2015 with around $175 billion of ENI, around $200 billion lower than year-end 2014. I'd really like to thank the GE Capital employees who have accomplished a lot in the last six months, and the team is focused on substantially completing the business exits by the end of 2016.

Let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith, and now I'll briefly go through GE's Industrial operations. Year-to-date orders are down 4% organically. We faced some tough comps in orders compared to third-quarter 2014, when total orders grew by 22% and equipment orders grew by 31%.

Organically, developed markets are up 18% year-to-date with growth markets down 7%, excluding a large one-time GE9X order. Our year-to-date orders in China are up 1%.

Service grew by 6% organically, and our progress was broad-based. PowerGen services grew by 10%, Aviation spares grew by 28%, and Healthcare was up by 4% organically.

Power & Water, Energy Management, and Healthcare orders were up 9% organically. However, Aviation and Transportation had significant one-time orders placed in the third quarter of 2014 with the GE9X and Tier 4. These two products alone had $6 billion of orders in the third quarter of 2014.

Oil & Gas orders reflect the impact of industry dynamics. Our organic orders decline was 32% and is not unexpected.

We continue to compete well in the market and have not seen cancellations. Importantly, there are substantial equipment orders where we've been selected technically but they have been delayed. So we're confident in our market position.

Across the Company, we have a strong funnel of orders for the fourth quarter and we expect our orders performance to improve.

On execution, the GE team executed very well in the quarter. Organic revenue growth was up 4% with six of seven segments up. Our relative position both in product and geographic diversity has never been stronger.

Globally, revenue in the US was up 5%, and Europe organic growth was up substantially, while growth markets declined by 7%. Year-to-date revenue was positive in ASEAN, China, sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America, and Middle East and North Africa. Meanwhile, regions like Russia, Canada, and Australia have been hard hit by natural resource dynamics.

Services were up 8% organically. Growth for software and analytics was up 16%, gaining momentum from our digital investments.

At Minds + Machines we launched Predix, and now have more than 20,000 developers. We're expanding partnerships with important customers like Boeing, Exelon, and BP.

Service growth was broad-based, with Power up 9%, Aviation up 17%, Transportation up 10%, and Healthcare up 3% organically.

We're winning with new products. The H-Turbine has 67 technical selections, with 21 in backlog. Power Conversion revenue grew by 15% behind multiple new product launches.

Our Aviation engines are achieving market leadership by meeting customer commitments with superior execution. We now have 10,000 LEAP engines in backlog.

Life Sciences had 8% organic growth in the quarter, and we have two important wins for bioprocess manufacturing in China. We launched Current as a way to capitalize on 72% LED growth and the opportunity to build a strong presence in the C&I energy efficiency space.

Margins continue to be a great GE story. Segment op margins grew by 100 basis points, with growth in gross margins of 80 basis points. We've expanded our value gap by $300 million year-to-date and expect this to continue.

Our product margins are expanding, and analytics continue to drive productivity in services. Restructuring is delivering substantial benefits and, in all, we think our margins can continue to grow. This is our 10th straight quarter of margin expansion so we have real momentum.

I would like to highlight the work of our Oil & Gas team as a good example of our execution. In a tough environment, with organic revenue declining by 7%, they grew margins by 100 basis points organically and held earnings. This will position them well in a volatile industry.

Now, cash is also a good story for the year. Industrial CFOA is up 23% year-to-date. Industrial free cash flow is up 53%; and as is typical, we expect a strong fourth quarter, where we expect a $2 billion reduction in working capital, similar to last year.

The great portfolio execution mentioned by Keith will allow for upside in our cash performance. Based on accelerated progress in Capital asset sales, we should be able to dividend an additional $2.5 billion to the Parent in the fourth quarter, and this would be $3 billion for the year.

This will put the Company at the high end of our CFOA range, and an effective Synchrony execution should return about $20 billion to investors through a share exchange. This will put us about $30 billion of cash returned to investors for the year through dividend and buyback.

We still expect Appliances to close in the quarter. This is not a complicated transaction. Appliances is a highly competitive industry with at least seven manufacturers and 21 brands. Electrolux wants to close and is working hard to do so.

So the GE balance sheet is very strong, and we will finish the year with substantial liquidity. Now, over to Jeff to go through operations.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great. Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the third-quarter summary. We had revenues of $31.7 billion, which were down 1% in the quarter. Industrial revenues including Corporate were down 2% to $25.8 billion. Industrial operating plus Vertical EPS was $0.29, up 16% year-over-year, with Industrial up 9% and the Verticals up 50%.

Operating EPS number of $0.32 adds in other continuing GE Capital activity including the Consumer segment, headquarter run-off, and other exit-related items which I'll cover in more detail on the GE Capital page. Continuing EPS of $0.28 includes the impact of non-operating pension; the net EPS of $0.25 includes the impact of discontinued operations.

The total disc-ops impact for the quarter was a negative $347 million, which included $1 billion of exit-related noncash charges. These charges are within the framework of the $23 billion exit impact that we communicated in April. Partly offsetting the charge was income associated with operations in CLL and Real Estate, which were moved to disc-ops earlier in the year.

As Jeff said, we generated $6.5 billion of CFOA year-to-date, which was down 9%, driven by lower GE Capital dividends. However, Industrial CFOA was $6.1 billion year-to-date, up 23%.

The GE tax rate was 17%, bringing the year-to-date rate to 20%, which is in line with our current estimate for the total-year rate. The GE Capital reported rate was a negative 6% in the quarter, which includes tax benefits associated with the plan to shrink GE Capital.

The Vertical tax rate was 0%. As we communicated previously, as we complete the GE Capital restructuring we expect the Verticals tax rate to be low double digits.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial segment revenues were down 1% on a reported basis, but up 4% organically, reflecting about 5 points of headwind from foreign exchange.

Foreign exchange was a $1.2 billion drag on Industrial segment revenue and a $165 million impact on Industrial segment profit. Despite this headwind, Industrial segment operating profit was up 5%; and organically the Industrial segments were up 9%.

GE Capital Vertical earnings of $351 million in the quarter were up 55%.

Next I'll go through the earnings walk. Consistent with last quarter we included a walk of the different elements of our earnings so that the dynamics are clear, given all the moving pieces with GE Capital.

Starting with the first column on the left and working down, Industrial operating net income was $2.6 billion and Vertical income was $351 million, for a total Industrial plus Verticals operating earnings of $2.9 billion. The GE Capital Consumer segment earned $795 million during the quarter, which I'll cover later.

On the Other GE Capital line, we incurred $411 million of cost driven by exit-related tax and restructuring charges, headquarter run-off, operating expenses, and excess interest. As a result, total operating earnings were $3.3 billion. Including non-operating pension costs, continuing earnings were $2.9 billion.

Discontinued operations were a charge of $347 million, which I discussed on the previous page. Adjusting for these items, net earnings for the quarter were $2.5 billion.

In the center and far right columns you can see the associated EPS numbers and the variance versus prior year.

Next page, on one-time items, we had $0.02 of charges related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to drive the cost competitiveness of the Company. Charges were $346 million on a pretax basis, and $244 million after-tax. About 45% of those charges related to restructuring in our Oil & Gas business as we continue to execute on our cost-out program. We had no Industrial gains in the quarter.

On the bottom of the page you can see the fourth-quarter estimate. We're expecting gains from Appliances, signaling, and embedded systems transactions in the quarter.

For the year, we continue to expect gains in restructuring to be balanced on an EPS basis. We've increased our expected restructuring from $0.11 to about $0.14, due to the higher gains we expect for the year. We have additional attractive restructuring opportunities including Alstom which will offset the higher gains.

Now I'll go through each of the segments starting with Power & Water. Orders in the quarter were up 8%, and up 13% organically. Equipment orders were up 7% to $3.5 billion on strength in Distributed Power, higher by 61%; renewables up 2%, partly offset by Thermal down 6%.

Distributed Power was higher driven by two fast track power deals in Indonesia and Ghana and our first order for six LM6000-PF+ units in Thailand. The new LM6000-PF+ attains 56 combined-cycle efficiency, which is the highest in its class. It takes half the time to install versus its predecessor and can start up to full power in about 10 minutes.

Renewables orders were up 2% -- up 14% excluding FX -- on strong international orders. Unit volumes were lower at 821 versus 839 a year ago, but megawatts were up 9%.

Thermal orders were down 6%, and down 2% ex-FX. We took orders for 22 gas turbines versus 23 last year.

The business booked four H orders in the quarter: two in Pakistan, one in Korea, and one in the US. This brings our total H units in backlog to 21, with an additional 47 technical wins, a seven-unit increase from the second quarter.

Service orders grew 8% to $3.4 billion, driven by strength in PGS, up 10%. We continue to see success in our upgrade campaigns including AGPs, Dry Low Nox, and OP Flex, all of which enhance the performance of our machines. In the quarter we booked 22 AGPs, up four from the third quarter of last year.

Revenues in the quarter were up 1%, and higher by 7% organically. Equipment revenue was down 6%, driven by Thermal down 10% on 16 gas turbine shipments versus 26 a year ago; and Distributed Power was down 13% on lower engine volume, principally driven by weak demand in the gas compression market. Renewables revenues were up 8%, and up 19% excluding exchange, on higher shipments of 735 wind turbines versus 642 last year.

Service revenues were strong, up 9%; led by PGS, up 13%, driven principally by upgrade sales. AGPs totaled 22 in the quarter versus 18 a year ago.

Op profit was higher by 7% and up 10% organically. Margins improved 100 basis points driven by service growth and cost productivity.

As we look to the fourth quarter, no change to the framework we've given you on gas turbines and Distributed Power. Wind is trending to the low end of the range we had given you previously of 3,000 to 3,200 turbines.

Next, Oil & Gas. The business continues to perform in a very difficult environment. Orders in the quarter were down 38%, and down 32% organically. All segments saw lower orders given the constrained capex environment and project delays.

Equipment orders were down 60%, with TMS down 57% driven by a large Canadian LNG push-out. Subsea was down 81% with softness in both drilling and well stream. Downstream was down 58%; surface was down 49% on lower rig counts; and M&C was down 22% on softness in flow and process technology.

Service orders for the quarter were down 13%, but down 4% organically, principally driven by subsea and surface, down 26% and 39%, respectively. That was partly offset by TMS, which was up 4%, and up 20% organically on higher installations.

Backlog in the third quarter ended at $22.3 billion, down 7% year-over-year. Revenues in the quarter were down 16% to $3.9 billion, and down 7% organically. Foreign exchange had a $400 million impact on revenue.

Equipment revenues were down 18%, and down 8% organically, driven by surface down 36% and subsea lower by 12%, down 3% ex-foreign-exchange. Organically, TMS was down 3% and downstream was up 12%.

Service revenues were down 14%, and down 5% organic, with M&C down 2%.

Op profit was lower by 12% versus last year and flat organically. Foreign exchange was a $75 million headwind in the quarter.

The business continues to execute on cost and material deflation. Value gap was positive with a very modest price impact. Margins improved 70 basis points, and 100 basis points excluding the effects of exchange.

Through three quarters, revenues are down 13%, and down 4% organically. Operating profit is down 10% reported, and up 5% organically.

We expect volume pressure to persist into the fourth quarter. However, given the strong execution on cost-out, we believe that for total-year organic op profit we will be about flat year-over-year or slightly better, versus the flat to down 5% guidance we provided earlier.

The team is making strong progress on achieving the $600 million of cost-out goal for 2015 and is well positioned to deliver $1 billion plus cumulatively of cost-out through 2016.

In Aviation, underlying travel demand continues to grow robustly, higher by 6.6% year-to-date August with strength domestically and internationally. The Middle East and Asia Pacific continue to be particularly strong. Air freight volumes grew 2.6% through August.

Orders in the third quarter of $6.5 billion were down 35%. The third quarter of 2014 included large orders received at the Farnborough Air Show.

Equipment orders were down 58%, driven by commercial orders. Last year we booked $3.8 billion of GE9X orders versus $600 million of GE99X orders this quarter. GEnx orders of $600 million were up 3 times, driven by strength in China; and we had $800 million of LEAP CFM orders in the quarter.

Commercial engines backlog of just under $30 billion is higher by 22% versus last year. Military orders were down significantly on non-repeat of international campaigns last year and soft US demand.

Services were very strong. Service orders grew 13% on strong commercial spares growth, up 28% at $39.5 million a day. Military services were higher by 76%. This was partly offset by overhaul volume being down.

Revenue in the quarter was up 5% to $6 billion. Equipment revenues were down 6%, with commercial down 1% and military down 20%. We shipped 64 GEnx units versus 65 last year, and services revenue was up 17%, with commercial spares higher by 22% and military up 16%.

Operating profit was up 7%, driven by strong services volume and value gap. Margins expanded 30 basis points in the quarter.

So another solid quarter from the Aviation team. The LEAP testing and performance remains on track, with the first installs expected to be in service in mid-2016.

Next up is Healthcare. Orders of $4.5 billion were down 4% reported, but up 3% organically. Geographically the US was down 1%; Europe was up strongly ex-foreign-exchange by 11% and down 5% reported; China was flat; and the Middle East grew 15%.

In terms of product lines, Healthcare systems orders were down 7%, but up 1%, ex-foreign-exchange. In the US, orders were up 2%, driven by strength in CT and MR, which were higher by 10% and 15%, respectively, partially offset by weak x-ray. The US appears to have performed in line with the market.

Europe was strong again, up 7% organically. That's the fifth consecutive quarter of positive organic growth for us in Europe.

The Middle East grew 22%. China was down 14% as orders continue to be impacted by lower public tenders. The private-sector orders are growing at double-digit rates in China, but off a much smaller base than the public market.

Life Sciences orders grew 11% organically and 4% reported. Bioprocess grew 23% excluding FX, with very strong demand in Europe, up 42%, and in China, up 162%.

Healthcare revenues were down 5% in the quarter; up 2% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Healthcare systems was up 1% and Life Sciences grew 8%, excluding FX.

Operating profit in the quarter was down 10%, and down 4% organically. Negative leverage was driven by lower value gap and higher new product spend, which more than offset the cost productivity in the business. Margins contracted 90 basis points in the quarter.

The third quarter was impacted by lower than expected volume in the growth markets and accelerated new product spend to drive future growth. The business has seen strong customer interest in productivity analytics and as a result has accelerated their migration to the Predix platform and development of predictivity applications.

In the fourth quarter, we expect this level of higher product investment to continue. We expect growth markets to remain challenging and developed markets to continue to show positive organic growth.

In Transportation, North American carloads were down 2.2%, primarily driven by lower coal and petroleum, down about 9%. That was partly offset by 2% intermodal growth. Year-to-date rail volume is down about 1%.

Orders in the quarter were down 77% or about $3 billion, as we expected, driven by locomotives. In the third quarter of 2014 we took a 3-fold increase or about 1,100 units in orders for Tier 4.

2014 large-order intake combined with the current global commodity cycle is pressuring demand for increment of locomotive power. However, we are working on several large opportunities and expect fourth-quarter locomotive orders to be much stronger.

Revenues in the quarter grew 3%, driven by services up 10%. Locomotive equipment revenues are up 11%, partially offset by mining.

Operating profit was up 11% driven by volume, productivity, and deflation, more than offsetting Tier 4 ramp costs. Margins improved 160 basis points.

In Energy Management, orders of $2.1 billion were up 2%, and up 8% organically, driven by strength in Renewables and our Power Conversion business, which grew orders 16%, up 26% organically. Power Conversion's renewables orders were up over 4 times on deals won in conjunction with both GE and Alstom, which offset the weak Oil & Gas Marine segment.

Digital Energy orders were up 20%, and Industrial Solutions was down 13%.

Revenues in the quarter were down 2% reported, but up 6% ex-exchange. Organically, Power Conversion was up 15%, Digital Energy was up 8%, and Industrial Solutions was flat.

Operating profit was higher by more than 2 times to $127 million in the quarter. Higher earnings driven by strong cost productivity and value gap partly offset by negative FX. Margins improved 390 basis points in the quarter.

In Appliances & Lighting, for the segment, revenues grew 8% in the quarter with Appliances up 10% on strong volume and Lighting up 5%. The US appliance industry was up 8%, with retail up 9% and contract up 7%.

Lighting continued to grow LEDs. LED revenue grew 65%, partially offset by a 15% decline in traditional products. LEDs now account for 39% of Lighting revenue, up from 25% a year ago.

Op profit in the quarter was up 88%, driven by material deflation and cost productivity.

Next I'll cover GE Capital. Our Vertical businesses earned $351 million this quarter; that's up 55% from prior year, driven by transactional gains and lower annual impairments in our Aviation business, partially offset by Oil & Gas impairments in our Energy business. Portfolio quality remains stable, and GECAS finished the quarter with zero delinquencies and no AOGs.

Working down the page, Consumer earned $795 million during the quarter, up 28% on gains related to portfolio exits from the international platform, partially offset by Synchrony minority interest.

Our share of Synchrony earnings was $493 million. As in prior quarters, CEO Margaret Keane will hold Synchrony's earnings call later today. As Keith covered, we received approval from the Federal Reserve to proceed with the Synchrony separation and intend to launch the share exchange next week, subject to market conditions.

GE Capital Corporate generated a $411 million loss in the quarter, driven by GE Capital exit-related tax and restructuring charges, excess interest expense, and headquarters operating costs.

Discontinued operations ended the quarter with a $347 million loss, driven by a $1 billion noncash charge associated with the execution of our portfolio exit strategy, partially offset by operating results in the underlying businesses. These charges are in line with the $23 billion total cost construct we shared with you in April.

Overall, GE Capital reported $387 million of earnings, and we ended the quarter with $176 billion of continuing ENI, excluding liquidity. The Verticals ended the quarter with $78 billion of ENI, excluding liquidity.

Our liquidity levels remain strong, and we ended the quarter with $97 billion, including $15 billion attributable to Synchrony. As part of GE Capital's internal reorganization, we launched a debt exchange to capitalize our international entity and to better align our assets and liabilities from a maturity and liquidity perspective. The exchange was oversubscribed, and we accepted $36 billion of new bonds, which were price on October 5; and we'll settle the transactions on October 26.

Our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 13.7%, which is up 230 basis points from the second quarter. We expect to achieve 14% Tier 1 common ratio by year-end, inclusive of the additional $2.5 billion dividend that Keith mentioned previously.

Just some highlights on the right-hand side of the page. The Verticals are on track to deliver $1.5 billion of earnings in 2015. Asset sales are ahead of plan, with $126 billion signed and $60 billion closed.

Once completed the Synchrony exchange will trigger the Consumer segment to move to discontinued operations. Given our significant progress, we plan to apply for SIFI de-designation in the first quarter of 2016.

In the last six months, Keith and the GE Capital team have continued to deliver operationally and are well ahead of the plan on the portfolio transformation we shared with you in April. With that, I'll turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. Just to conclude, we have a few updates on the operating framework. We've kept the Industrial EPS expectations of $1.13 to $1.20. If Appliances close, we will be closer to the high end of this range; and our execution on our organic growth, margins, and corporate costs remain strong.

We expect the GE Capital Verticals to be at least $0.15, with more strength in GECAS. Capital asset sales should be at least $100 billion, with more coming in the first quarter.

CFOA should be about $16 billion and free cash flows plus divestitures should be about $15 billion assuming that Appliances closes.

And, we expect to return $30 billion to investors, about, reflecting the impact of Synchrony. GE is executing on its investor commitments and is on track for its 2015 goals.

Our portfolio transformation is happening at an unprecedented pace. We have a focused infrastructure business with leading positions in our markets, and we're positioned to grow faster than our competitors, with a strong dividend.

We're growing operating and gross profit margins and making corporate smaller. We have nearly a $200 billion backlog of services that positions the Company well for any cycle, and we're transforming GE into the world's premier digital industrial company, in a unique position to drive outcomes for customers and grow margins.

I'd like to take a moment to acknowledge the work of the GE team. Last quarter we got approval for our largest Industrial acquisition, completely repositioned GE Capital, and launched one of the largest-ever debt exchanges. At the same time, we're winning in the market and delivering strong financial results. I'm very proud of their work.

Now, Matt, back to you for questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. Lots to talk about. Let's open the lines up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. Is there a sense, Jeff -- and either Jeff I guess. But Jeff Immelt, is there a sense with the fall-off you've seen in orders that there is any risk we are entering a bit of an industrial recession, particularly as it relates to growth markets?

JEFF IMMELT: So, you know, Scott, what I would say, kind of going around the world, is US gets a little bit better every day. Europe is appreciably better. But clearly the growth markets are highly differentiated in terms of their performance and have some headwinds as it pertains to oil prices and things like that.

On balance, Scott, we see as much activity as we've ever seen. The quoting activity, the deal activity, things like that, is still quite robust.

Business for us in China is still pretty good, which is a big market. So we still see a fair amount of opportunities out there, even amongst the volatility. So, I really believe that we can still accomplish our long-term goals in the world we see today.

And then I would just remind you that we've got $200 billion backlog of services; it's 70% or 80% of our earnings. It's growing organically 8%. So we've got a pretty robust underpinning of the total Company as we go forward.

But the quote activity is as robust today as it was six months ago or a year ago.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's helpful. Then it's a little bit of a strange question, but those of us who have followed you guys for a long time have seen, I think, a higher sense of urgency or at least an execution level that's been pretty high in the last year or so. Like you said, in the last six quarters you have beaten your margin targets or so.

What do you attribute? You had a big change in compensation structure that kicked in, in January. I mean, are we seeing just the benefit of past investments pulling through?

How do you think about -- at least, how do you attribute really this higher level of execution and how GE is different today maybe than it was just three years ago?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Scott, I would say again -- great team. The compensation plan clearly helps. I think we made the investments three or four or five years ago that are helping us today in product lines and globalization and things like that.

I mean, we don't -- we have as robust of an NPI pipeline as we've ever had, and we're not dependent on any one country. We've got a very diversified country mix. That's some of the stuff that John Rice had done.

The last thing I would say, Scott, is -- look, there's no way to describe what it feels like to run GE where the team knows exactly what it has to do over the next three years. I mean our plan -- we can't guarantee exactly what the macro environment's going to be.

But between the GE Capital actions, buying back stock, organic growth, integrating Alstom, you've got a leadership team that knows precisely what we need to do for investors over the next three years. And that is a place we haven't been in certainly since the financial crisis.

That I think just helps everybody. It helps people who own the stock, and it gives the leadership team, I think, extra momentum as we go forward.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hey, I had been thinking it might be too early to ask about some specifics for your Oil & Gas outlook for 2016, but you did just disclose the cost-out plan and the increase to cumulative to $1 billion there. So hopefully you can share some of your assumptions, maybe getting as granular as revenues and op profit for Oil & Gas next year.

JEFF IMMELT: So, you know, Deane, I would say in that it's a market that is so visible and volatile, I think I'd start by reflecting a little bit on what we've done this year. The team I think in a very tough environment has gotten after the costs, has executed in the market, has driven services. So I think you'd say, if you reflect back on where we were in the fourth quarter last year and then where we sit today, I think our Oil & Gas team has done a fantastic job as it pertains to this year.

Then I think if we look forward and just -- we don't assume that the market gets appreciably better. We would say that revenue might be down 10% to 15% next year and that operating profit might be down 10% to 15% next year, and that we hold margins in a tougher environment. I think that's the kind of feel that we have.

Again, we still want to go through and do all of our normal fourth-quarter planning on the Company. But I just think it's important to investors to have some visibility in terms of how we think about Oil & Gas and triangulating backlog and things like that.

DEANE DRAY: Just to clarify: that 10% to 15%, that's an organic number?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. Right, guys? Yes. Yes.

DEANE DRAY: All right; good. Then related to Oil & Gas -- and you mentioned going back to the fourth quarter when oil was really still in a freefall -- at the Outlook Meeting, Jeff, you said you could be opportunistic in looking at assets in Oil & Gas.

Would love to hear what your thinking is today. Is there any size parameters that you can share?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, guys, we still like this industry. I would go back, Deane, and -- look, we never, as we built our portfolio in Oil & Gas, we never thought about it reflecting $120 for oil or anything else. Our investment is really made along the lines of -- we felt like the industry was going to be growing in technical intensity, customer solutions, and that over time the Oil & Gas business would look a lot like our Aviation business or our Power business or things like that. That's what led to the investments.

So we're a long-term player in Oil & Gas. We like the industry. We're committed to the industry.

I think as we look at opportunities and where we are today, anything would have to hurdle above buying back our own shares. So we'll be opportunistic, we'll be disciplined, and we have an alternative that we think is still quite attractive for us of buying back our own shares.

DEANE DRAY: Good; that's helpful. And just last question from me is: one of the moving parts in the 2015 framework that is outside of your control is the timing, the assumption of the close of Appliances. Really that's in the hands of Electrolux; it's in the hands of the regulators.

So could you just remind us what that P&L impact would be if that close gets pushed into 2016?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Deane. You'll recall we talked about something that looked like a $0.06 a share gain associated with Appliances. So if it got pushed out of the year, we'd probably rethink a little bit about what we're doing on restructuring in the fourth quarter; we would consolidate a full quarter of Appliance earnings, which would be a bit of an offset. And more likely than not, that would probably entail a breakup fee.

So we still think we're well within the range of $1.13 to $1.20. But probably that would push us to the bottom end of that range versus being at the top.

So we've thought through that, and we've also thought through it in terms of cash. I think we're fine. We're closing on Alstom and doing everything we need to do around cash flow even without closing Appliances.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Deane, the base assumption is still that we close this deal. I think Jeff's given you -- I think it's always good to scenario-plan; but the base assumption still is that we finish.

I don't see any reason why we shouldn't. But to your point, it's not completely under our control.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning. Hey, since you started to talk about 2016 a little bit I'm going to just push the envelope here. The way I'm looking at it anyways, if you hit that midpoint around $1.15 to $1.20 you talk about on 2015 EPS, it looks like $1.17, you're telling us you've got $0.10 from Synchrony; you've got something like, based on the GECC buyback, $0.06 to $0.08; you've got Alstom now, you're talking about I think $0.06 minimum.

So, without assuming any other growth from your Industrial business, that's up like more than $0.20 there. Then GECC, I'm not sure what you guys are thinking for that, but we're certainly starting to get into that well north comfortable of $1.50, especially if you could hold Oil & Gas flat.

Is that -- am I thinking about this in the right way?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, you know what I would say, certainly the pieces you're putting together, Steve, kind of hang together, right? I would say Oil & Gas is going to be down next year; that's got to be the working assumption.

I think the focus Jeff and I are going to have is to try to offset that with lower Corporate as we think about next year; so we want to run Corporate lower. And then I would say, look, we're going to give you guys a full estimate on all the other pieces of our Industrial outlook in December.

But, look, we've got strong services, strong services growth, big backlogs. And we're going to win some nice orders in the fourth quarter. I just -- I feel like we're going to look pretty good next year in the world we see today.

So, Jeff, would you add?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. No, I think you got it exactly right. I don't think you can start with the premise of Oil & Gas flat. Having said that, Alstom's going to contribute; EPS accretion is going to contribute, no question about it; lower Corporate. We expect to be better operationally in the segments, and we expect EPS is going to grow double digits next year for sure.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. Hi, Jeff. I just wanted to dig into 4Q. Obviously the orders, primarily a function of the tough prior comp. The equivalent backlog is pretty flat with where it was in 3Q.

So I am wondering if you could just maybe put a finer point on organic into 4Q. You're running at 4% year-to-date. I'm wondering how you view organic into 4Q.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, we've got quite a range here on our expectation for fourth-quarter orders. But generally speaking, we expect them to comp much better than what you saw in the third quarter, both headline and organically.

We've got some big orders in Transportation, some big orders in Power and Water we're looking to deliver in the fourth quarter. We expect Aviation to be slightly better. So we think sequentially the fourth quarter is going to look much better than the third quarter, for sure.

JEFF IMMELT: Wait, are we talking revenue orders, Nigel? Because I think revenue in Q4 is going to look fairly comparable to what it's been year-to-date. Right?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. So we been running -- I think we're 4% organic revenue growth year-to-date. My hunch is that's going to be pretty consistent with Q4.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning, guys. Hey, nice to see the higher GE Capital dividend for 2015. With the well Wells deal and Synchrony now done, Real Estate ranged, is 14% Tier 1 still the right base to be using, given that all those things are now clearly on their way out?

And how are the international Consumer sales? Are there any things that would make you still be using 14%?

KEITH SHERIN: Shannon, this is Keith. I'd say that's the framework that we've agreed to with the regulatory oversight that we have, so I don't see us changing that until we ultimately aren't under that same framework. Right now, as you know, we ended the third quarter at 13.7%. I think with the asset sales in the fourth quarter, we'll go up about 14%.

We expect to dividend $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter, based on those asset sales and our governance process. And then we're on track for what we said we'd do in 2016.

But I wouldn't -- I don't see that threshold really changing until you have a different regulatory environment. That's why it's so important for us to continue to shrink.

That's why it's important for us to target applying to not be a SIFI in the first quarter. I think that's going to take some time; and then when we get done with that, we still have our international regulators.

So I think you should assume that that's a threshold for some period of time for us, and we need to continue to exit the businesses in a rapid pace and build the capital so that we can distribute it back to the Parent.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi. Thanks, just a quick question on Healthcare. The profits ex-currency were up in Q2. They're down mid-single digit Q3. You talk about R&D being hiked in the slide; so maybe just given update on the cost progress in Healthcare, particularly given the volume outlook in emerging markets and the fact that pricing is still very challenging.

I think you'd talked before about Healthcare profits growing this year. I think they'll clearly be down; but maybe give us some look in terms of the cost base entering next year.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, first, just to echo part of your question, I think the developed world is better, so US and Europe are getting better. The emerging markets are mixed for Healthcare, but more headwind than tailwind.

What Jeff said in terms of really trying to convert our Healthcare IT business, and get it on Predix, and spend a little bit of incremental R&D on that side of the business, I think it's something that we wanted to do this year to give us some momentum going into next year.

Then I think the business has a whole series of variable-cost productivity and product cost-out programs that are going this year that have yet to bear fruit, that I would expect to roll into next year. So look, I think the markets are challenging. We did some one-time investment this year, and it's our expectation that the team can execute better going into -- the rest of 2015 and going into 2016.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just -- I'll give you a little color on the third quarter, since you asked it. Definitely price was a challenge in the quarter. We're down 1.9 points of price; so we had the negative $100 million of value gap. That was definitely a challenge.

But the business actually got pretty good productivity. We were well over $100 million in total cost productivity in the quarter.

Really what swung here was volume was a bit lighter than we thought it was going to be; largely emerging markets. And we had about a $50 million incremental spend on R&D year-over-year to accelerate the programs we talked about. That's where the challenge came through.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hey, clearly there was an announcement recently that you guys have a new holder to your top 10 list. I was just wondering how those conversations are going and whether there are any new incremental portfolio or cost opportunities that have come from it.

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I would say, Joe, I think the white-paper lays out their thesis. I think that's -- we don't agree with everything, but it's pretty consistent with what we've done and what we're doing. So I don't think there would be much to add to that. I don't know, Jeff, what would you?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We are laser focused on margins and cost productivity, as we should be, reducing Corporate costs. That all lines up with Trian's white paper. And we're about executing on orders and revenues so we can have that leverage fall through to earnings.

JEFF IMMELT: Industrial balance sheet pretty consistent with what we've said in the past. Things like that, Joe.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: And that will be paced -- the discussion around leverage will be paced by how quickly we get through the de-designation process in GE Capital.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. Hey, just further to Julian's questions on Healthcare, we've seen emerging markets become a much higher volume business over the past few years, and developing markets had a lot of regulatory dust settling here. So just wondering if there any permanent evolutions or resets in the served markets there, where we rethink what levels Healthcare performs at over the next five years.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't think so. Obviously, China has been a very strong growth market for Healthcare for quite a period of time.

You've got to remember, 74% of orders and roughly revenues come from developed markets still. Even with all the emerging market growth we've had in Healthcare, we're still about almost three-quarters from the US, Europe, Japan.

So I don't think there's any change in the geographic footprint of where we think Healthcare is going or where the growth is going to come from. We've got some particular markets that are challenging based on commodities, FX, or politics; think about Russia, the Middle East. Places like Iraq are very, very tough to comp year-over-year.

We actually feel a little bit better that China is stabilizing a little bit for Healthcare. The performance this quarter sequentially was better, and we think the tendering process is ultimately going to pick back up.

When you think about China, the underlying fundamentals haven't changed. There is still 1.5 billion people. They're still building hospitals. The private market in China has grown 15% to 20% a quarter.

It's the slowdown in the public tender as part of the campaign the government's been running there has put some slowness into what we've seen in terms of order. But I don't think there's much of a change in footprint here on a go-forward basis, and we're still three-quarters developed market driven.

OPERATOR: Robert McCarthy, Stifel.

ROBERT MCCARTHY, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, everyone. How are you doing? I wanted to ask a question just about if we're heading into an industrial recession here -- and you may disagree with that premise -- could you just talk a little bit about the prospect for combating deflation? Because if we're in a deflationary environment and we have a multiyear down-cycle where we're looking for a bottom in terms of volumes and cutting price, isn't the portfolio actually set up for that, just given the installed base of equipment and the service streams you have? Maybe you could just comment on that a little bit.

JEFF IMMELT: So, Rob, again, I come back and just -- US a little bit better every day; Europe stable to up; and then emerging markets volatile. Right? I think that's -- revenue passenger miles on aviation still positive.

Demand, I would say if you're in the gas and wind business and power, more positive than negative, right? Oil and gas tough for sure. US market in healthcare growing better, slower in emerging markets.

In other words, the first thing I'd say is the picture is a slow growth and volatility picture. And I think there are still pockets of growth out there pretty universally.

Then I would say, look, the fact that we're big installed base, recurring revenue model, margin efficient, capital efficient, I think that's a positive for GE in this cycle. And then our value gap continues to run positive, right? So the ability of us to source well in the marketplace is a tailwind, not a headwind.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, the fact we have a $270 billion backlog is very, very important in that kind of environment. $200 billion of that in the service space, right?

So from a price perspective, that's quite important. We're all about product and service costs. So to maintain our profitability and grow it, and to be competitive, we've got to drive it to the same dollars of deflation that you are suggesting.

So we are laser focused on this. The product and service cost competitively is just as important as the actual technology we're selling. So we are on top of this.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen; thanks for the question. Hey, just a couple cash and liquidity related questions.

First, on the Capital side, if stuff is going a little bit richer than you thought, why not upside to the $35 billion of Capital return over the program?

Then just on the Industrial side, if you work through the pieces, you're guiding 80% free cash flow conversion on Industrial. If we start with CFOA and take out GE Capital dividend and account for CapEx it's kind of an 80% conversion ratio.

Is there anything going on this year that is conspiring negatively to that number? Should we see higher conversion into next year? Maybe you could just walk us through those dynamics.

KEITH SHERIN: Hey, Jeff; this is Keith. I'll just cover a little bit on the $35 billion. As we said, we do have a little bit of price that we're getting, price to tangible book, so ahead of what our plan was by a bit. That's been offset by the fact that we're selling faster. We tried to say that on the page by -- a lot of those transactions were estimated to be later in 2016 and into 2017; and by selling them early, we're forgoing that future income.

On the other hand, in total we're expecting about 1.1 times price to tangible book. We're a little ahead.

You can see the US assets that we've sold mostly so far are selling at 1.4 times price to tangible book, a little ahead of what we thought -- 1.3. Then the rest of the assets we think if we've got them priced right overall will be just a little ahead of the 1.1 times for the total $200 billion of sales.

So I think we're right on the $35 billion, and we feel pretty good about it.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. On CFOA for the year, we think our cash conversion ratio on CFOA and free cash flow for the year is going to be closer to 84%, 85%, not 80%. So we actually think we're going to have a decent performance on CFOA.

We talked to you about a goal to get to 95% over the next two to three years. We're laser focused on that. I didn't suggest at any point in time we were going to do that in 2015.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. Jeff, a couple quick announcements before you wrap up. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We're going to hold our fourth-quarter earnings webcast on Friday, January 22, and we're going to hold our annual Outlook Meeting on Wednesday, December 16. Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Matt, again I think a great execution quarter for the team. I just want to particularly congratulate all our GE Capital folks for great execution on the plan we laid out on April 10.

And really we're thrilled about Synchrony, the value, the company. We think this, the Synchrony transaction, is going to be a great transaction for GE investors and for Synchrony investors.

So thanks, Matt. Everybody have a good day.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151017ebag000p1
  


 HD
 Q2  2015  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,364 words
   PD
17 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2015 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I will now turn the program over to your host for today's conference Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and welcome to our second-quarter earnings call. We issued the press release, presentation and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt and Senior Vice President and CFO Jeff Bornstein. Now I will turn it over to Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. The team had a strong quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment. We're executing both organic growth and cost initiatives.

Specifically, Industrial EPS grew by 18% and earnings at the combined, a combination of Industrial and the Capital verticals which is the way we think about GE going forward grew by 19%. Organic growth and earnings performance was very strong. Orders were up 13%, revenue was up 5% and profit would have grown by 11% organically.

Our Operations were strong. Margins expanded by 70 basis points with gross margins up 60 basis points and industrial CFOA grew by 79%.

Our Oil & Gas business met expectations for the quarter for orders, revenue and profit. Organic profit was up 5% and we continue to grow margins despite a tough environment.

We end the half with our goals on track. Meanwhile we have a number of portfolio actions under way. GE Capital asset sales were robust and we will achieve $100 billion of deals closed in 2015.

We still expect the Synchrony split to take place by the end of this year. Appliances and Alstom are in the middle of regulatory reviews but we still expect both deals to close by the end of the year. We remain committed to doing good deals for investors.

In all we're confident enough in our performance to raise the low end of our range for industrial guidance to $1.13 to $1.20 EPS. So overall we had a very good quarter.

Orders were very strong, up 8% or 13% organically. We saw solid growth in both equipment and service. Orders pricing was up slightly and we grew backlog to a record $272 billion.

Power & Water was up 22% behind strength in PowerGen products and Wind. We now have won 61 technical selections for the H turbine, up eight in the quarter.

Oil & Gas had solid equipment orders and Turbomachinery and Downstream consistent with expectations. Power Conversion orders grew by 33% as we're winning big in renewable energy markets. Aviation had large orders growth in LEAP and GEnx and meanwhile spares order rates grew by 33%.

Healthcare HCS equipment orders grew by 6% in the US as that market continues to rebound. The US was particularly strong but we also saw growth in many parts of the world. The US was up 10%, Europe up 4% and growth markets up 2%.

First-half Industrial Internet orders were $1.9 billion, up 83% and we expect total Software and Solutions orders for the year up $6 billion and 30%. Service growth was robust at 7% ex-FX and backlog reached $200 billion for the first time.

Our strong backlog in orders position GE to achieve our long-term organic targets of 5%. Organic revenue was up 5%. Growth was broad-based with six of seven segments up. A real highlight was the $19 billion of commitments at the Paris Air Show.

For the first half, US revenue grew by 3% and four of nine growth markets were up and China grew by 12%. We had some excellent performances in Service. PowerGen Service was up 9%, Aviation Service was up 6% and Transportation Service was up 6%.

We're gaining share in Healthcare with US Healthcare HCS equipment revenue growing 16%. We closed a big healthcare deal in Kenya worth more than $200 million. And International locos grew by 128% with big wins in Brazil and South Africa.

A few adjacencies were particularly strong. Wind grew by 49% and LEDs grew by 77% and our Power Conversion business is innovating in solar and wind energy recording $300 million in orders in those markets alone. We have a strong pipeline of products and services that are winning versus competition.

We're having success in software and analytics. We launched GE's Digital Wind Farm providing customers with up to 20% more capacity. We announced a major collaboration with BP for asset monitoring in oil and gas and we closed another class I railroad that will utilize GE's Movement Planner in a deal worth more than $100 million.

Margins expanded with 70 basis points of growth. Gross margins were up 60 basis points with strength in value gap and productivity. We're making progress broadly with five of seven segments having margin growth. Simplification continues to deliver results and our SG&A targets are on track.

First-half margins are up 100 basis points. Service margins were particularly strong, up 130 basis points year to date as the impact of our analytical tools are being felt.

Equipment margins, meanwhile, are up 30 basis points year to date. So we're running the Company well.

Cash is a good story. Industrial CFOA is up 79% year to date and free cash flow is up 54%.

We did not receive a capital dividend in the quarter but we're hopefully getting an additional dividend to the parent in the year. As we've said our asset sales are ahead of plan and GE Capital has substantial strength to remain safe and secure.

We expect to complete the Synchrony split by the end of 2015 and at the current stock price our share of Synchrony is worth about $24 billion. The balance sheet is very strong with $17 billion of cash at the parent and our cash generation is on track for the year and we remain committed to our capital allocation plans.

Now over to Jeff to review the businesses.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the second-quarter summary.

We had revenues of $32.8 billion which were up 2% in the quarter. Industrial revenues including corporate were up 1% to $26.9 billion. You can see on the right that the Industrial segments where flat on revenue for the quarter but up 5% organically.

Industrial operating plus verticals EPS was $0.31 which was up 19% year-over-year. That's driven by Industrial up 18% and the verticals up 25%. The operating EPS number of $0.28 adds in other continuing GE Capital activity including the Consumer segment, headquarter runoff and other exit-related items which I'll cover in more detail shortly.

Continuing EPS of $0.24 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS of negative $0.13 includes the impact of discontinued operations. The total disc ops impact in the quarter was negative $3.7 billion which included a $4.3 billion non-cash charge related to moving the majority of our GE Capital CLL business to held for sale. We disclosed this earlier in the month.

Partly offsetting the charge was income associated with CLL and real estate. This charge was included in the total $23 billion GE Capital estimated exit impact that we communicated in April but earlier than we originally planned based on accelerated sales activity.

As Jeff said we had a strong performance on cash with CFOA for the half up $3.9 billion, or 17%. Industrial CFOA was $3.5 billion at the half which was up 79%. In the first quarter we had $450 million of GE Capital dividends and we did not receive a dividend from GE Capital in the second quarter.

The consolidated tax rate for the quarter was 27%. The GE rate was 21% in line with guidance we provided. The GE Capital reported rate was 45% driven by tax charges associated with the exit plan and the vertical tax rate in the quarter was 6%.

On the right side you can see the segment results. As I mentioned earlier Industrial segment revenues were flat on a reported basis but up 5% organically, reflecting 5 points of headwind from foreign exchange. Foreign exchange was $1.3 billion drag on Industrial segment revenue and about a $215 million impact on Industrial segment's op profit.

Despite this headwind Industrial segment operating profit was up 5% and organically the Industrial segments were up 11%. GE Capital vertical earnings of $531 million in the quarter were up 19%.

Before we get into the traditional pages I wanted to first walk the different elements of our earnings for the quarter so the dynamics are clear given all the moving pieces at GE Capital. Starting with the first column on the left and working down, Industrial operating income was $2.6 billion and Vertical income was $0.5 billion for a total Industrial plus Verticals operating earnings of $3.2 billion.

The GE Capital Consumer segment earned $459 million during the quarter which is comprised of $463 million for Synchrony offset by our non-strategic global consumer portfolio. We incurred $772 million of costs driven by exit-related tax and restructuring charges, headquarter runoff, operating expenses, excess interest and preferred dividends in the quarter. As a result, total operating earnings were $2.8 billion.

Including non-operating pension costs continuing earnings were $2.4 billion. In discontinued operations you can see the $4.3 billion held for sale charge for CLL as well as the impact of CLL real estate earnings in the quarter. Adjusting for these items, net earnings in the quarter were a negative $1.4 billion.

In the center and far right columns you can see the associated EPS impacts and the variance versus prior year.

Next on Industrial other items in the quarter we had $0.03 of charges related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to drive the cost competitiveness of the Company. Charges were about $400 million on a pretax basis and $280 million after-tax. About 40% of that related to restructuring Oil & Gas as we continue to execute on an aggressive cost-out program in that business.

We also had $0.03 of gains in the quarter primarily related to the NBCU settlement that we disclosed in June. We also had a small gain related to a disposition in Oil & Gas. Both of these transactions were booked in Corporate.

On a pretax basis gains and settlements totaled about $500 million but given the high tax rate on these transactions the after-tax impact was $295 million in the quarter. As you're aware we are expecting gains in the second half from the Appliances & Signaling transactions and we expect gains and restructurings to be balanced on an EPS basis for the year. We have increased our expected restructuring from about $0.09 to about $0.12 due to the higher gains we expect in the year and additional attractive restructuring opportunities we see.

Now I'll go through the segments starting with Power & Water. Orders of $7.8 billion were up 22% in the quarter, up 27% ex-foreign exchange. Equipment orders were higher by 29% with Distributed Power up 68%, Thermal was up 25% and Renewables higher by 24%.

Distributed Power was driven by domestic orders for LMS 100 units from two customers. Reciprocating engines for gas compression remain weak and were lowered by 37%.

In Thermal we booked 18 gas turbines versus 10 last year including an H turbine in Korea. This brings our H units to 17 in backlog and an additional 44 technical wins.

Renewables orders totaled 888 wind turbines versus 715 a year ago. Our two new NPI products, the 2.0 and the 2.3 megawatt platforms, received additional orders for 200 units in the second quarter of this year.

We also launched the Digital Wind Farm software solution featuring a new 2 megawatt modular turbine connected to the Industrial Internet and built on our Predix platform. This application will drive up to 20% more annual energy production for our customers.

Service orders were up 17% on strong PGS growth in ASEAN and the Middle East North Africa and AGP orders were 39 versus 19 last year. Revenues for the quarter were higher by 8%. Revenues were higher by 15% organically.

Equipment revenues were up 10% driven by Renewables up 53% on shipments of 806 wind turbines versus 510 last year, partially offset by Distributed Power down 20% on lower turbine and engine shipments and Thermal down 3%. We shipped 24 gas turbines, three higher than second quarter of last year but with reduced scope and a mix of more 7Fs and 9Fs.

Service revenues were up 6% with PGS up 9% on higher installations, strong upgrades including AGP sales of 26 versus 19 last year.

Operating profit in the quarter was up 8% reported and up 14% organically. Growth was driven by volume, price and base cost productivity more than offsetting H turbine ramp costs, negative mix driven by Wind and Distributed Power and foreign exchange. Operating margins in the quarter were flat at 18%.

The framework for Power & Water remains intact. We expect 100 to 105 gas turbine orders and shipments, 3,000 to 3,200 wind shipments and AGP upgrades of 90 to 100. Distributed Power we think will remain challenging for the year.

Next on Oil & Gas, the business performed as we expected in the second quarter on orders and revenue and performed slightly better than we expected on operating profit. I'll start with orders.

Orders were down 20% reported and down 11% organically. Equipment orders were down 14% and flat organically. Turbomachinery was higher by 40% driven by new LNG orders and Downstream was higher by 53% from strength in Sub-Saharan Africa and the Middle East.

The strength in Turbomachinery and Downstream were offset by Subsea which was down 48% on tough comparisons and Surface was down 31% on weak North American demand. Service orders in the quarter were down 26% and down 20% organically. Turbomachinery and Subsea were down 36% and 30% respectively.

M&C was down 22% principally driven by the Wayne disposition and a softer market. Downstream was up 23%.

Revenues of just under $4.1 billion were down 15% reported and down 4% organically driven by foreign exchange and the Wayne disposition. Equipment revenues were down 20% reported, down 8% organically principally driven by Turbomachinery down 20% or 7% organically and Surface down 24%.

M&C was stronger by 10% organically and Service revenues were down 9% but up 1% organically. Operating profit was down 12% to $583 million in the quarter but was up 5% versus last year organically. Foreign exchange translation was $115 million headwind in the quarter.

Margins grew 40 basis points and were up 140 basis points organically. The business executed well delivering on manufacturing productivity, positive value gap and executing restructuring .

Through the first half Oil & Gas revenues were down 12% reported and down 2% organically. Operating profit was down 9% reported but was up 8% organically. Margins improved 40 basis points reported and 120 basis points organically for the half.

The business team is ahead of their plan to take out $600 million of costs this year. The framework we laid out for you at EPG of operating profit down 5% to 10% reported and down zero to 5% organically is unchanged.

Next up is Aviation. Global air travel continues to grow robustly. Passenger traffic grew 6.3% year to date through May with strength in both domestic and international travel.

Most regions saw strength. And airfreight volumes grew 4% year to date.

Aviation had a very strong orders performance in the second quarter with $7.6 billion of orders up 30%. Equipment orders grew 37% to $4 billion driven by commercial engine orders growth of 71%.

GE90 and 9X orders of $2 billion were higher by 12 times with key orders from United, Korean Air, Qatar and ANA. GEnx orders were higher by three times. Commercial engine backlog grew 43% in the quarter to $29 billion.

Military equipment orders were down 31% more or less as expected. Service orders were up 23% with commercial spares up strongly at 33% or $37.9 million a day and military service orders were up 73%.

Services backlog ended at $107 billion, up 7%. Revenues in the quarter of $6.3 billion were up 3% with commercial equipment higher by 7%. The business shipped 86 GEnx engines versus 75 a year ago which includes 15 units delayed from the first quarter.

Military equipment was lower by 12%. Service revenue was up 6% and commercial spare parts higher by 30% and military was higher by 15%. That was partially offset by lower commercial time and materials shop visits.

Operating profit was 6% higher than the second quarter of 2014 driven by strong value gap and base cost productivity. Margins expanded 60 basis points in the quarter.

The Aviation team continues to deliver operationally and win commercially as they execute on multiple new product introductions. At this year's Paris Air Show we announced $19 billion of orders and commitments.

LEAP testing and performance remains on track and the first LEAP installed engines will go into service in mid-2016.

On Healthcare, orders at $4.7 billion were down 3% but up 4% organically. Orders in the US grew 3%, Europe was down 13% but up 7% organically and Japan was up 12% organically with Africa higher by 40%. Offsetting these strong organic results was the Middle East down 6% driven by Saudi and China down 7% on continued slow public tenders.

In terms of business lines Healthcare Systems orders were down 3% reported but up 3% organically. US imaging and ultrasound were up strongly at 8% with MRI higher by 17% and ultrasound up 7%. Japan was up 1% and up 19% ex- the impact of the yen.

Africa was up 42% on a large minister of health deal in Kenya and China was soft and was down 9% in the quarter. Lifescience orders were down 2% reported but up 7% organic with bioprocess continuing to grow 13% organically. Revenues in the quarter were down 3%, up 3% organically.

Healthcare Systems revenues were up 3% organic and Life Sciences grew 8% organic. Operating profit was down 3% reported but up 2% ex-foreign exchange.

Volume growth and productivity was partially offset by foreign exchange and price. Margin rates were flat in the quarter.

So the US market continues to grow. Europe appears stable. We believe we continue to take share in most of the markets we operate in.

China remains a challenge with slow tenders but we do not think there's an underlying demand problem. We really like the outlook and the growth trajectory for the bioprocess business within Life Sciences.

Next up is Transportation. Rail volumes were down 1.8% in the second quarter with carloads down 7% driven by coal, petroleum and agriculture and that was partially offset by a 4.4% increase in intermodal traffic. Rail volumes for the half were essentially flat with last year.

Transportation orders were down 5% in the quarter driven by lower equipment orders down 19% partly offset by 6% growth in Services. Locomotive orders in North America were lower by 99 units partly offset by strong international orders. Service strength was driven by $115 million order for Movement Planner in our Solutions Software business and very good spare parts demand.

Backlog grew 32% year over year to $21 billion. Revenues were up 9%, principally driven by equipment growth of 13% and service is higher by 6%. We shipped 191 locomotives in the quarter versus 165 in the second quarter of 2014.

Operating profit was up strongly at 23% driven by higher locomotive and parts volume, strong productivity partly offset by mining mix and Tier 4 ramp costs. Margins improved in the quarter 260 basis points versus last year.

We currently have 18 preproduction Tier 4 units in revenue service with customers and we will begin shipping our first production units this month. The launch remains on track.

In Energy Management, orders were $2 billion in the quarter up 5%. Orders were higher by 13% excluding the effects of FX. The business saw strength in Power Conversion higher by 33%, partly offset by Digital Energy down 5% and Industrial Solutions down 6% but roughly flat organically.

Strength in Power Conversion was driven by higher penetration of renewables market where the business has grown its share 50% in the last year. This was partially offset by weakness in Oil & Gas related Marine space. Backlog grew 10% to $5.5 billion in the quarter.

Revenues of $1.8 billion were down 5% but up 4% organically. Organically Power Conversion was higher by 13%, Digital Energy up 2% and Industrial Systems was down 2%.

Operating profit was up 19% versus last year and up 40% organically. Growth was driven by strong productivity more than offsetting foreign exchange. Margins improved 90 basis points in the second quarter.

Through the first half Energy Management operating profit was up 49% reported and up 96% organically.

Finally with Appliances & Lighting, revenue was up 5% in the quarter with Appliances up 7% on strong volume and Lighting was up 2%. The US appliance industry units were higher by 6% with retail up 5% and contract up 12% on robust housing starts. In Lighting revenue growth was driven by LED which was up 77%, partially offset by a 17% decline in the traditional products.

LED now accounts for 36% of Lighting revenue, up 15 points from last year. We believe we're on track for approximately $1 billion of LED revenue in 2015.

Operating profit was higher by 62% in the second quarter driven by higher volume and strong productivity.

As has been reported, the US antitrust authorities have filed suit to challenge the sale of GE Appliances to Electrolux and we plan to vigorously defend the transaction in court. We expect the trial to begin in the fourth quarter and our goal remains to close this deal this year. We are confident the transaction is good for customers and consumers and that acquiring the GE Appliances brand would help Electrolux compete in an increasingly global and intensely competitive industry.

Finally I'll cover GE Capital. As I discussed earlier, our vertical businesses are $531 million this quarter, up 19% from prior year on strong performances across Aviation, Energy and Healthcare. Portfolio quality is stable and GECAS finished the quarter with only one aircraft on the ground.

The Verticals generated $2.2 billion of volume in the quarter, up 4% and 80% of the GECAS volume and commitments were powered by GE's CFM equipment. Energy Finance arranged deals in the quarter that will fund 180 GE wind turbines.

Working down the page, Consumer earned $459 million during the quarter, down 3% driven by Synchrony's minority interest. Our share of the Synchrony earnings was $463 million. In the quarter the Synchrony team filed for separation with the Federal Reserve and we continue to target year-end subject to regulatory approval.

As in prior quarters CEO Margaret Keane will host Synchrony's earnings call later today.

Corporate generated a $772 million charge in the quarter driven by exit-related tax and restructuring charges, headquarter runoff, operating expenses, excess interest and our preferred dividend of $160 million in the quarter. Discontinued operations ended the quarter with a $3.7 billion loss. Results were driven by our Commercial Lending and Leasing business as the majority of that business was moved to discontinued operations in the second quarter as you will have seen from our 8-K published in early July.

As part of accelerating our timeline we recognized $4.3 billion held for sale loss which includes the write-off of $8 billion of goodwill. This charge is included in the $23 billion total cost construct we shared with you in April. On an economic basis we expect the CLL portfolios to generate a gain versus our tangible equity.

Other earnings from discontinued operations were $582 million for the quarter and are primarily driven by CLL operations. Overall GE Capital reported a $3.5 billion loss and we ended the quarter with $179 billion of ENI excluding liquidity. That's down $124 billion from the prior quarter.

Our liquidity levels remain strong and we ended the quarter at $85 billion including $14 billion attributable to Synchrony and our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 11.4%. That's up 80 basis points from the first quarter. We expect this ratio to continue to improve as we dispose of risk-weighted assets.

In terms of portfolio sales the team continues to make good progress. During the quarter we signed deals representing approximately $23 billion of ENI bringing our year-to-date total to $68 billion. There continues to be strong interest in our portfolios and we have $80 billion of additional ENI in the market currently.

By year-end we are on track to close approximately $100 billion and sign between $120 billion and $150 billion in total. We expect to be largely complete with our exit plan by year-end 2016, a year earlier than our original plan that we shared with you in April.

At the bottom of the page is the 2015 dividend matrix we shared with you on April 10 when we announced the GE Capital exit. We are operating the business through the process at 14% Tier 1 common. As I discussed earlier we ended the quarter at 11.4% Tier 1 common.

We expect to improve the ratio to 14% or better by year-end as we close the $100 billion of estimated deals. Overall Keith and the GE Capital team delivered a strong operational quarter and remain focused on delivering on the portfolio transformation.

With that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. We have a few adjustments to the 2015 operating framework. We're increasing the low end of the range with new expectations of $1.13 to $1.20.

So far this year organic growth and margin expansion are trending towards the high-end of our expectations and we expect this to continue. We're still planning for our transactions to close by the end of the year.

The Verticals will remain on track for $0.15 EPS and the accounting around capital exits are consistent with our plan. We think it's likely that the Synchrony split occurs this year.

GE Capital asset sales closings are tracking towards $100 billion of ENI and we expect signings in excess of that number. Free cash flow is on track for $12 billion to $15 billion and we're hoping to expand the GE Capital dividend based on faster asset sales. And just for perspective Appliances represents about $2 billion of the disposition cash.

We've showed a range of $10 billion to $30 billion of cash returned to investors. Our capital allocation plans are on track. And if Synchrony occurs this year we will be at the high end of this range.

So the GE team is executing. Despite managing a substantial portfolio pivot our operating execution remains excellent.

We're gaining momentum towards our long-term goals and going forward we can give investors strong industrial EPS growth while returning significant cash through dividends and buyback. And we've created a premier industrial Company well-positioned to win in this environment.

So Matt, let's take some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thanks, Jeff. I'll now turn it over to the operator to open up the phone lines for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning guys. Happy Friday summer.

Hopefully we can all go home a little early and this earnings release is relatively easy to get through versus the past and thanks for that. I wanted to ask a couple of questions and the first one just related to Oil & Gas. When you take the order book and the pricing in that order book and you push it forward to whatever the typical backlog of that is, let's say it's six months or so, can you hold margins when you get to that timeframe?

How does that mix shift look? I'm just trying to get a sense of how you even think about modeling a down 20%-plus order book in that business.

JEFF IMMELT: Well you know Scott, I'll start and then let Jeff also add some perspective. I think our expectation always was that we could hold margins as we went through this process and you've seen that so far this year.

I think going into the cyclicality in Oil & Gas there were a number of I would say inefficiencies already in the industry. So I think there were good productivity opportunities from the start.

We'll take out $600 million-ish of cost this year. That will be more next year so we've been able to do a good job on cost and I think the combination of those things and the mix of businesses we have I think gives us a perspective that we should be able to hold our margins going forward despite a more challenging market.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, the only thing I would add is that $1 billion cost-out target for 2016 is absolutely critical to me. There's no question that although we've not repriced any of the existing order book there's no question that new orders are going to be challenging from a pricing perspective.

That's why all the work around restructuring and product service cost is so critical in terms of profitability and operating margins. So the team has executed ahead of plan. We feel really good about their ability to execute on that cost roadmap that we've laid out with them.

SCOTT DAVIS: That's helpful. As a follow-up just on asset sales you made a commentary and said that things are ahead of plan, I mean volume is certainly ahead of plan. But can you give us a sense of pricing, and how I know some of this stuff hasn't happened yet but indications of interest in such, and you are probably in various stages of price discovery but give us a sense of really where pricing is coming in versus your expectations.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so if you think about it in terms of deals that Keith and the team have signed, right now we're roughly excluding real estate we're about 5%, a little over 5% ahead of the fair values we used on the April 10 call of the baseline if you will for the Hubble. So, so far I think we're doing better on price than that baseline. Having said that, because we're accelerating the sales of these portfolios and franchises that means the earnings that we're going to enjoy over what we thought the hold period was going to be is shortened.

So right now I would say that those two things more or less offset each other. Better on price for what we've signed so far but we're selling them quick and we'll earn less as a result of not owning them as long as we thought.

SCOTT DAVIS: We can live with that.

JEFF IMMELT: So still on track -- still on track for the (multiple speakers)

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, still on track.

SCOTT DAVIS: Yes, I get it. Thanks guys and good luck.

JEFF IMMELT: Great. Thanks, Scott.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hey, thanks and good morning guys. So I just want to make sure I understand a little bit how you're thinking about the one-time items and restructuring offsetting the gains.

On the NBCU gain side what drove that this many years later and how do you think about that from an accounting or maybe a reporting perspective in terms of comparison with Lake and other things that you treated in discontinued operations versus putting this one in continued op. I just want to understand the logic there.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, it was a result of an agreement when the initial JV was set up. It had a lifespan that spanned many years and in the second quarter we and Comcast agreed to settle that arrangement if you will.

It was $450 million in the quarter as we talked about, about $0.03 after-tax. The accounting around it has it in continuing operations and the accounting doesn't push it into discontinued operations. So it's just a function of how the accounting works.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay but why would Lake have been in disc ops but not this?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Because we moved the whole Lake operation into discontinued operations including the liability that we had with Shinsei associated with it around the guarantee in the runoff of that book. We had a continuing piece of NBC as a result of this JV operation that was in continuing ops and we just settled it and it's always been there.

STEVEN WINOKER: All right. Fair enough. Next question, what are the transactions that we're talking about?

I know you can't comment a lot on Appliance and Alstom. If they do not close by the end of the year, how would that affect the operating framework that you've laid out quantitatively?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so here's how I think about it. I mean generally speaking if we didn't close Alstom the impact in 2015 would be pretty de minimis. It would not have that big an impact.

I think we told you that we were expecting Alstom net of everything to be about a penny a share in the year. So on Appliances obviously the framework included the gain associated with Appliances and we pick up a couple more quarters of earnings than we had anticipated that will offset part of that.

And then we'd relook at what we're doing around restructuring. Right now we're talking about $0.12 of restructuring and we'd rethink about whether we're going to do $0.12 of restructuring. So that's how we're thinking about the framework for the year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And on that topic, Jeff, I know you set expectations for how you were thinking about potential concessions with Alstom at EPG and you guys were on the table this week on that front. And you can't disclose the detail but can you let us know how consistent what you provided is with your prior commentary?

JEFF IMMELT: So you know, Steve again we're constrained on what we can say. I think the proposal is confidential and it's not final really until the commission evaluates and make a decision.

What I would say is that we proposed a remedy that addressed their concerns while preserving really the strategic and economic rationale that I reviewed with you guys in the past. And look, we still like the deal for the Company and more news as the process goes on but we like the deal and it's consistent with the things that economically that we've talked about as the rationale for the deal.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, thanks. I will hand it on.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning. Hey, can we go through a little bit more on these margin drivers? They moved a decent bit from what they were in the first quarter.

The mix got a lot more negative, I think GEnx was a good part of that and then value gap and cost productivity got a lot better. Can you just run through what moved those things relative to what we saw last quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, sure, Shannon. So as you know mix was actually a good guy in the first quarter. It was negative in the second quarter at 70 basis points. For the half, it's negative 10 basis points.

As we said in the first quarter we expected mix to turn around a little bit here in the second quarter and it in fact did. You're correct. Part of that is the higher GEnx shipments and it's also a function of higher wind shipments and lowered Distributed Power quarter to quarter so that's what happened on the mix line.

Value gap got substantially better. Value gap in the second quarter was about $193 million. It's $221 million for the half.

So up substantially from $28 million of value gap in the first quarter. And we continue to deliver cost productivity on products and service and so in the second quarter we had 60 basis points of margin improvement at the gross margin line and then 70 at op profit. So the net of simplification and other inflation added 10 basis points below gross margin.

So that gave us a first half of 70 basis points improvement in the gross margin line and 100 in op profit. So those are really the dynamics. I think mix turned around like we thought it would versus an extremely strong first quarter and value gap got substantially better.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: And how should we think about these different dynamics playing out for the rest of the year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So I think what we said earlier in the year is we thought mix would be plus or minus for the year and I think we still feel like based on backlog on what we expect orders shipments to look like for that to be roughly correct. I said value gap for the year would be roughly as it was in 2014; 2014 was about $300 million.

We're a little ahead of that run rate here through the half. We'll see how that plays out.

Price has been pretty good actually both in Power & Water and Aviation. So that's how -- I don't think the framework is changing materially from what we told you earlier in the year.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And then just on assessing this 2015 capital dividend we got the $100 billion of sale assumptions and the 14% Tier 1. Is there something else that could move that significantly off of being a $1 billion dividend plan for the year for Capital?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, we're hopeful that as we move through and Keith and the team closed these $100 billion of transactions that that 11.4% Tier 1 common rate is going to move to 14% and beyond and for them to be in a position to dividend us money this year we need to be above the 14%. We have a few other moving pieces -- we have a stress test we're going to do, etc., but we're hopeful that we can outperform the $500 million certainly they've given us so far. And we gave you a range here of $0.5 billion to $7 billion in April 10 and I think we're kind of still in that range.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: And is there a time when you make that decision or is it based on the timing of asset sales?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: It's based on the timing of asset sales and more likely than not would be late fourth quarter.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you. Good morning everyone.

Just going back to the Alstom deal, I know there's sensitivities here but could we talk about the plan B? If you do have to walk away from a compromise deal, is it clear that you would put all that deal capital right into buybacks?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Deane, I'm just not going to go there. I think we like this deal.

It's our intention to really close the deal and that's really where our stand is. So let's just leave it at that.

DEANE DRAY: Sure. I appreciate that. And then just moving the focus over to geographical for a moment, and I don't know it just struck me as ironic that this quarter the growth markets were the laggards and maybe you can comment on that in particular? The 2% Healthcare was weak in China but it doesn't seem to be a longer-term trend but just kind of parse through the dynamics on the growth markets.

JEFF IMMELT: Let's see, Deane. If I just gave you a kind of half to date on China the orders are up 15 and the revenue is up 12. That's let's say first-half 2015 versus first-half 2014.

Then if you looked at some of the growth regions from a standpoint of orders I'd say Latin America and Middle East, North Africa, those places are hanging in there. We're certainly seeing pressure in places like Russia and ASEAN countries.

But I'd say the strength is the diversity of the portfolio. And it's our expectation for the year that these are ex-FX, probably high single digits, mid to high single digits on the growth regions for the year.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, Jeff, that we're in a cycle now where the developed markets are stronger than so in the US in the second quarter we were up 10% on orders. I talked about Japan being up ex-FX up very strong, up 86%.

And Europe was actually up 4% ex- the effects of exchange. So the developed markets seem to be getting a little bit stronger and the developing markets are certainly much more mixed.

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say mixed. Yes.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning gentlemen. Just a couple of questions.

Just on the additional restructuring, I was just wondering what it is you might be targeting? And I guess specifically thinking about the quarter, it sounds like only about 40% of the restructuring spend is actions that might have some kind of payback as opposed to mortality and other kind of loose ends cleanup. Is that correct and how do we think about that going forward?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So we think we have a number of opportunities to increase the amount of restructuring we do to get ourselves positioned for 2016 and beyond, particularly around competitiveness. As I said earlier if for some reason we didn't close Appliances we may take a harder look at that. Of the restructuring we spent in the quarter about $140 million of that was in Oil & Gas and we see very good paybacks around that.

All the projects we're working on today are all inside of the 1.5 year payback benchmark that we shared with you over time. The nature of the restructuring has changed pretty dramatically, though. There's about less than a third of what we're doing today is SG&A related and more like 70%, 75% of it is product and services.

We really focus on gross margins and products and service cost competitiveness. So I think we're on track to invest at very good returns in restructuring this year and they are critical to delivering not only the year but setting us up to deliver on 2016 and beyond.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And is the mortality hit just a one-time adjustment? I thought that was more of an ongoing change in pension cost?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, it's a change for the year that we planned out in restructuring and other charges. It's about $40 million in the quarter pre-tax. So it's $20 million after-tax, it's not a big item.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then just switching gears, Oil & Gas Services, the weakness in orders there, what is actually driving that? It's a little surprising that's weaker than the equipment orders. Do you see people pulling back on OpEx as opposed to CapEx or some other timing noise there in the quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Some of it's timing. Services across the board were pretty challenged here in the quarter. I would say the biggest driver as you would probably expect has been Service, I'm sorry Surface.

Orders were quite weak around pressure control, well performance solutions. Lufkin was down 40% in the quarter.

So that's really where the challenge is. But each one of the businesses had a challenge around Service in the quarter.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thank you. I just wanted to ask around the PGS orders. I think they were very strong, up 17% or so. You called out what's going on in some of the emerging markets but maybe give some more color on thermal power services in the US and Europe what you're seeing.

JEFF IMMELT: Again excellent work on the AGPs I would say, Julian, continues to be robust. I think just the overall mix in usage around gas turbines is high as there's incremental shift from coal. So those remain two big drivers I think of PowerGen Services.

And I would say DP Services despite the new unit being softer in Distributed Power the Distributed Power Service business has done very well in terms of upgrades and service performance. So I think they had another good quarter and are pretty well-positioned for the rest of the year.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I'll just do a quick run-through. So Service is up 17% as you refer to. Jeff talked about 39 AGPs in orders in the quarter.

That's up 20 versus last year, very strong. But Distributed Power services were up 27% and regionally orders were very strong in the Middle East, were up above 60% and ASEAN, China the combination of ASEAN, China and India was up 38%. So very strong in the quarter and we like where the business is heading for the year as well.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. And Oil & Gas fairly disparate collection of assets and backlog length and so on.

You sound pretty confident on the earnings outlook for this year for that segment. How much of the balance of the second-half sales and earnings are in your backlog as of now?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so at the moment in total about 67% of sales in the third and fourth quarter are in backlog. As you would expect Subsea and Drilling were closer to 85% in backlog, TMS much higher, Downstream Technology about 80% backlog.

So the businesses got the biggest and closest to a flow business is Surface. Surface has got about a third of the second-half revenue in backlog. So we think we're in pretty good shape here for the balance of 2015.

JEFF IMMELT: Again I would go to the mix of businesses. Turbomachinery and Downstream continue to be reasonably strong.

Surface as Jeff said is the most challenged. So I think the mix of businesses helps give us a little bit more visibility than maybe some others.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. And just very quickly, Healthcare. Should we think profits are maybe flat this year rather than seeing growth? I think they were flat in the first half.

JEFF IMMELT: I think organically earnings are definitely going to be up. And we expect the team with restructuring and the fact that the US market is doing better, we expect earnings growth in the second half even without FX.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. I just want to continue with the Oil & Gas name. Pricing this quarter was actually better than last quarter, down 1.2 versus down 1.4.

I'm just wondering do you feel that the boundaries on Oil & Gas are now more defined, do you feel more confidence in where this goes in the second-half of the year? And are you confident you can maintain price deflation in this kind of zone?

JEFF IMMELT: I still think the industry is forming. So I think there's still volatility around oil price. I think we've taken a lot of cost out.

I think everybody's learned how to compete at lower prices for oil, so I'm very confident in our ability to execute on the cost side. I would say that repricing is still de minimis, so we're not seeing massive headwind from that. And I just think it's one of those that we're going to have to continue to give you updates on where the market is but I just think we can manage our way through this.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Julian alluded to the Healthcare margins and I'm wondering what is holding back the margins?

We're seeing a positive mix in Life Sciences. Obviously a lot of work on G&A, so I'm wondering are we seeing here a negative mix as developed markets outperform emerging markets?

JEFF IMMELT: Well these guys have -- how much FX is in the Healthcare number, Jeff? It's more than $100 million isn't it?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. FX in Healthcare was $40 million of translation in the quarter and that's why the organic number is better than the reported.

I think what we have going on in Healthcare is they've got a real price challenge. Price sequentially is down over a point. They've continued to get base cost productivity.

Where we need them to focus is on product and service margins. So it's not necessarily a mix issue. You're absolutely right, Life Sciences and bioprocess continues to grow but we need to get at is product and service costs within the core AGS business and that's what we're focused on driving.

NIGEL COE: Okay. And then just a final one, obviously Alstom there's not a lot you can say there but it's in the press there's a deadline for your proposals and you've already made proposals. Are we still working toward a mid-August timeline for a decision or has that been pushed back to later in the quarter?

JEFF IMMELT: I think the timeline right now is in early to mid-September I believe is where the timeline is. And I think that's probably a pretty good timeframe.

NIGEL COE: Okay I'll leave it there. Thanks a lot guys.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Just again on more Oil and Gas. So what you hearing about your customers on Oil and Gas side?

Are you getting pressure request to be the consolidator of the supply chain? Just seems that people broadly want to deal with people with real balance sheets and people who can survive the storm.

JEFF IMMELT: Look, Andrew I think there's a certain amount that I think is going to be in play in that regard. I don't think that's a recent phenomenon.

I think that started back several years. And so there remains in the Oil & Gas business a real opportunity to drive better system efficiency between suppliers and the IOCs and the NOCs. And we look at this cycle as a good opportunity for us to drive efficiency.

ANDREW OBIN: Okay. And just a follow-up question. Looking at your organic growth rates and order growth rates and compare them to what we're seeing from the macro it just seems you guys are taking market share.

You're a very large Company taking a lot of market share. How long do you think you can do it without triggering a price response from your competition that's seemingly getting clobbered?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, in our world technology matters. And so if you look at the Aviation business, if you look at Locomotives, if you look at Gas Turbines, if you look at Healthcare we have a great lineup of technologies that are quite robust. And in the end that's the way you can gain good market position and margins at the same time.

Then on the Service side I think our analytics are starting to play through both from a pricing standpoint and also from a productivity standpoint. So that's another example of technology and what it can drive.

ANDREW OBIN: So you look at it as a payoff on your investments over the past many years?

JEFF IMMELT: Definitely. I definitely do.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great, Jeff, a few quick items before you wrap up. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website and we'll hold our third-quarter 2015 earnings webcast on Friday, October 16. As always we will be available later today for questions. Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Great, thanks Matt. Again I think you guys see the portfolio taking shape and the hard work we've done but I really want to call out the great execution by the GE team in the quarter.

I think margins, organic growth, cash, GE Capital portfolio repositioning, the GE team really did a great job of execution in the quarter. So Matt, back to you.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great, thanks.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks everybody.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150718eb7h001jl
  


 HD
 Q1  2015  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,747 words
   PD
17 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2015 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Jeannette and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder the conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter 2015 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release, presentation and supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.

As a reminder elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein.

Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. GE had a good quarter in a slow growth and volatile environment, just to give you an economic read from the world of GE. We see the US getting a little bit better every day. Europe is slightly improving. Overall China remains good for GE. Resource rich markets are mixed. We expect to have positive revenue in places like the Middle East, Latin America and Africa. Meanwhile Russia and Australia will be tough.

We are seeing the world that we planned for. Industrial EPS grew by 14% despite having $0.03 of uncovered restructuring. Operating EPS was $0.31 excluding the impact of the capital announcement. Organically orders were up 1% and revenue grew 3%. Industrial segment profit grew by 9% or 12% organically with margins up 120 basis points.

Oil and gas had a solid first quarter. Organically they were positive in orders with revenue flat. Profit was up 11% organically. The oil and gas market remains volatile with some segments under pressure. However, our diversified Oil and Gas platforms delivered in the first quarter. We are on track for our targets in 2015.

We are running the Company well. We spent a bit of time last week discussing capital allocation. I would only reiterate that we were in full execution of our GE Capital plan. All of our CFOA targets and capital allocation goals are in line with our framework. We remain on track for industrial EPS of $1.10 to $1.20.

Orders were up 1% organically and we finished the quarter with $263 billion of backlog. Again, Oil and Gas orders were up 2% organically as they closed a few big subsidy deals. Orders pricing declined slightly.

Service orders were up 3% organically with broad-based strength. Aviation spares grew by 31% and remain robust. We remain on track for strong orders in predictivity in 2015. New install orders for Healthcare IT grew substantially in the first quarter. We launched asset performance management in the manufacturing space. Orders for Transportation, software and solutions are planned to be up 50% for the year and we expect consistent growth for wind power up and AGPs for the year.

We saw some encouraging signs in the quarter. Aviation remains very strong recording $800 million on LEAP orders. The LEAP has won 79% of all neo and MAX orders. LEAP engines for neo and C919 are flying and the LEAP for Boeing is in the test plane and flying soon. The engine is ahead of schedule. The LEAP engine has been one of our most successful product launches in history.

Healthcare equipment orders grew by 5% in the US, Transportation continued to record global wins and they received a $350 million order in Angola. Power conversion grew orders by 10% and we have solid orders performance in China of 54%. We expected Power to have tough comps in the first quarter. In addition they saw several orders slip into the second quarter but overall we see good demand for units in North America, Japan, Saudi, North Africa, Mexico and Brazil. And we anticipate a strong power orders recovery in the second quarter.

Our orders support our organic growth target for the year.

Our businesses executed well in the quarter. Organic revenue growth was up 3%, geographic growth was balanced, US was up 2% and growth markets were up 6%. We saw strength in China up 6%, Middle East up 19%, Africa up 11% and Latin America up 13%.

From a business standpoint, we had organic growth in six of seven segments and we have forecast organic growth of up 2% to 5% and remain on track for that.

Margins continue to be a good story with growth of 120 basis points. We have targeted 50 basis points of gross margin expansion for the year and we hit 90 basis points in the first quarter. We had favorable mix, value gap and productivity in the quarter.

Meanwhile simplification continues to track good results and we're seeing more benefits ahead. One of the goals for 2015 is to expand margins in both equipment and service. We grew equipment margins by 120 basis points and service by 70 basis points in the quarter. We are making progress on margins as a Company.

Industrial CFOA was $900 million. It was less than expected. Our shortfall was driven by some Aviation supply chain disruptions in Power and Water orders timing. We will recover this in the second quarter.

At the half we plan on CFOA to be significantly higher than a year ago and we are on track for our CFOA goals for the year.

Our balance sheet remains quite strong. In the future we will continue to look at ways to achieve a more efficient balance sheet.

From a capital allocation standpoint, Alstom remains on track for a second half close. We always expected that this deal would get a second look in the US and Europe. Alstom is impacted by similar volatile market dynamics as GE but we continue to see this as a good strategic and financial fit for us. And we intend on completing a deal that is good for investors.

Now over to Jeff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I will start with the first quarter summary. As we discussed last week, we took a significant day one charge related to the exit of the non-vertical assets of GE Capital. On this page I will start with the underlying financial performance of the Company excluding those charges and then on the next page I walk you back to our reported financials.

We had revenues of $33.1 billion, which were down 3% in the quarter driven by GE Capital which was down 7%. Industrial sales of $23.8 billion were down 1%. Operating earnings of $3.1 billion were down 5% on lower GE Capital earnings.

Operating earnings per share of $0.31 were down 6% with Industrial EPS up 14% and GE Capital EPS down 21%. Continuing EPS of $0.27 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.

As Jeff said, CFOA for the quarter was $1.3 billion. We had industrial CFOA of $900 million and received $450 million of dividends from GE Capital. Industrial cash flow was lighter than our expectations driven by timing on progress collections particularly in Power and Water and the impact of an Aviation supply chain issue on inventory. These timing issues will reverse in the second and third quarter and our expectation is that the industrial cash flow will be stronger in 2Q and will be up substantially for the first half versus last year.

The GE Capital exit significantly impacts our tax rates for the quarter. As a result, we are providing both the reported tax provisions and tax rates on the bottom left side of the chart. The GE tax rate for the quarter was 23% in line with guidance we provided. The reported GE Capital tax rate is not meaningful as the charges to shrink the Company caused there to be a $6.2 billion tax expense while there is a significant pretax loss.

As we noted previously, GE Capital will have a higher tax rate going forward and we expect variability in the tax rate as we transition the business through the next few years.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial segment revenues were down 1% reported and up 3% organically reflecting about 4 points of headwind from foreign exchange. Foreign exchange was approximately a $940 million drag on industrial segment revenue and about $120 million impact on op profit. Despite this headwind, industrial segment operating profit was up 9%.

GE Capital earnings were down 21% primarily driven by lower Synchrony earnings due to the minority interest and lower assets. I'll cover the dynamics of each of the segments in a couple of pages but first I want to walk these results to our reported financials.

Starting with the first column on the left and working down, as we said, industrial operating earnings were $1.6 billion, up 14% and GE Capital earnings were $1.5 billion for total operating earnings of $3.1 billion. Including non-operating pension, continuing earnings were $2.7 billion. We had an approximately $80 million benefit in discontinued operation associated with the sale of our consumer mortgage business in Australia to bring net earnings to $2.8 billion.

The next column is the impact of the GE Capital exit announcement as we reviewed with you last week. As we discussed, we took a $14 billion charge associated with classifying businesses and assets as held for sale and a $6 billion tax charge. We also took a $2.3 billion disc-ops charge principally reflecting the Real Estate transaction.

After adjusting first-quarter operations for these items, the reported amounts are shown in the third column. So $2.8 billion of operations net earnings offset by $16.4 billion of GE Capital charges works to the reported $13.6 billion net earnings loss for the first quarter, or loss of $1.35 a share.

As we move through the execution of the plan we shared with you last week, there will be adjustments and we will continue to keep you updated on progress and the impact of those actions.

Next on other items, I will -- we don't have a long list this quarter. We had $0.03 related to ongoing industrial, restructuring and other items as we continue to take actions to improve the cost structure of the Company. This was $422 million on a pretax basis with about one-third of that related to restructuring Oil and Gas. As we discussed before, we are taking aggressive actions to reduce our cost footprint given the challenging environment and Lorenzo and the team are laser focused on execution.

For the year, we will continue to execute on restructuring projects with urgency. As you are aware, we are expecting some gains this year from Appliances and Signaling transactions. In the profile on the bottom of the page we have assumed an Appliance gain in the second quarter and a Signaling gain in the second half but both are subject to regulatory approval.

Although there will be quarterly variability in gains and restructuring time, we expect gains to equal restructuring for the year on an EPS basis.

Next I'll give an update on Power and Water. Orders for the quarter were $4.5 billion, were down 21% driven by equipment orders down 29% and services down 15%. Orders were lighter than expected due to financing delays and timing of agreements but not competitive losses. For example, we signed a deal for two 7F gas turbines this week that we expected to sign in the first quarter. Our framework for Wind and Thermal orders has not changed for the year. We expect second-quarter orders to be up double digits.

In the first quarter we booked 21 gas turbines versus 31 a year ago and 376 wind turbines versus 422 turbines in the first quarter of 2014.

In terms of H-technology, we booked another order for a 9HA in Latin America and this brings the backlog to 16 units. In addition, we've been technically selected on an additional 37 units and are bidding an incremental 50 units beyond that.

Distributed Power equipment orders were down 53% driven by nine fewer turbines. We expect Distributed Power turbines orders to be roughly flat for the year. Gas engine orders were lower by 39% in the quarter driven by softer demand in gas compression. Overall, DP will continue to be soft for the year.

Service orders were down 15% with PTS down 20% driven by no repeat of a large upgrade in Japan a year ago and lower new unit installs. AGP orders were 16, down one year-over-year. No change in outlook for AGPs or services for the total year.

Revenue of $5.7 billion was higher by 4% but was up 9% ex-foreign exchange. Equipment revenues were up 1% on very strong thermal volume. We shipped 39 gas turbines versus 17 a year ago. That was partially offset by Distributed Power down 37% and Renewables down 30% on lower unit shipments of 15 and 174 respectively.

Service revenues were higher by 7% driven by higher upgrades including AGP upgrades, 21 versus 17 a year ago.

Operating profit of $871 million was down 2%, that is flat ex-foreign exchange driven by higher volume offset by negative productivity in supply chain and engineering associated with the H ramp and negative product mix due to lower distributed power. Value gap in the quarter was a positive $12 million. Op profit margins were down 90 basis points in the quarter.

We remain on track with the outlook we provided and we expect 100 to 105 gas turbine orders and shipments this year with a good pipeline of activity. We still expect Wind shipments of around 3000 to 3200 turbines and AGP upgrades remain on track and Distributed Power will remain pressured throughout the year.

Next I'll cover Oil and Gas. Oil and Gas orders of $4.3 billion were down 6% reported but up 2% organically. Equipment orders of $2.2 billion were down 10%, flat organically. Service orders were down 27% on weak North American activity and TMS orders were down 23% with no repeat of two large LNG orders we took in the first quarter of last year.

It was still a decent orders quarter for TMS, which booked more than $700 million of new orders in the quarter.

Subsea and Drilling orders were up 74% on large deals we booked in Ghana and Brazil. Service orders of $2.1 billion were down 3% but up 4% organically. Surface was lower by 21% and TMS was down 8% largely due to foreign exchange. Subsea was strong, up 21%. M&C was down 1% organically.

Revenues of just under $4 billion were flat year-over-year organically and down 8% reported. Reported negative V% includes 7 points of foreign exchange and 1 point of disposition. Equipment revenues were down 13% with TMS down 9% reported but up 22% ex-foreign exchange and Subsea down 8% reported but up 6% ex exchange. M&C was down 8% organically in the quarter and service revenues were down 2% reported but up 4% organic with Surface down 23% and M&C up 11% organically.

Operating profit was up 11% organically, down 3% reported driven by negative FX offset by strong productivity on both base costs and product and service costs. Price was a $5 million drag in the first quarter but the business delivered positive value gap.

Margins improved 50 basis points reported and were 120 basis points better ex the impact of exchange on earnings. This will be a challenging year in Oil and Gas but the team has been aggressive on remaking the cost structure of the business and we believe that we remain within the scenarios that supported our total year industrial guidance of $1.10 to $1.20 a share.

Next I'll cover Aviation. Air travel continues to be very robust. Global passenger kilometers grew 5.3% through February 2015 versus the same period last year with the Middle East up 8.8%, Asia-Pacific up 7.3%. Through February, freight traffic grew 7.5% compared with a year ago with very strong double-digit growth in the Middle East and Asia Pacific.

Orders in the quarter of $7.5 billion were up 36%. Equipment orders of $3.9 billion were up 64% on higher commercial engine orders of $3.3 billion, up over 2 times versus prior year. This was driven by $1.2 billion of GE9V engine orders, up 10 times versus last year from Kuwait Airlines, Emirates and includes a GE9X order for Cathay. GEnx received $360 million in orders, up 3 times and we also recorded $800 million of orders from LEAP, up 3 times.

Our total win rate for the LEAP since program launch for Next-Gen narrowbody aircraft is 79%. Commercial engine backlog was up 35% year-over-year.

Military equipment orders were down 61% driven by no repeat of two large orders from Sikorsky and Qatar Air Force from the first quarter of last year as expected. Service orders were up 14% on strong commercial spare parts, which were up 31% at $38.9 million a day and military spares were down 11%.

Revenues of $5.7 billion were down 2%. Equipment revenues were down 8% with commercial equipment revenue down 1% on lower GEnx shipments. We shipped 19 fewer units than last year, 51 versus 70, and 29 less units than our plan as a result of a supply chain disruption.

Military equipment revenue was down 32% on lower shipments and service revenue was up 4% with commercial spare parts up 28% and military services up 3%. Op profit was up 18% on very strong value gap, variable cost productivity and favorable GEnx mix, partially offset by lower volume and higher R&D. Margins improved 390 basis points in the quarter. The impact of the lower GEnx shipments improved the margin rate by about 90 basis points. This is net of some costs to remediate the disruption. We are working the issue and we expect to ship most of the delayed units in 2Q and be back on plan for the full year of 275 to 300 GEnx units.

Aviation had another strong quarter growing equipment and service backlog by 23% and 9% respectively. The business continues to execute on new technology introductions, service offerings and cost out. Aviation could perform better than we outlined at the December outlook meeting.

Next Healthcare. Orders of $4.2 billion were down 1% but up 4% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. We saw continued growth in the US, up 5%. Europe was down 4% but up 11% ex-FX. Japan was down 18%, down 6% ex-FX. The Middle East was down 43% driven by Saudi and China was down 4%.

Healthcare system orders were down 5%, flat excluding the impact of foreign exchange. US Imaging and Ultrasound was up 7% with strong growth in MR, up 41% in the quarter partially driven by the new PET/MR release in December. This was offset by softer orders in Japan, Russia and the Middle East.

Life Science orders were up 10%, up 17% excluding foreign exchange driven by strong bioprocess orders. This was offset with Core Imaging down 3% and services. Revenues of $4.1 billion were down 3% but up 2% ex-foreign exchange. Healthcare system revenues were down 6%, flat organically and Life Science revenues were up 4%. Operating profit was up 3% with 80 basis points of margin expansion driven by strong cost execution partially offset by lower price.

Looking forward we expect similar market dynamics. We believe we are gaining share in key modalities in the US and we expect the market to continue to improve. While China has slowed, we expect orders growth for the remainder of the year in China. Life Science growth will persist and the business team continues to execute on its cost out programs.

In Transportation, North American carloads were up 1.8% with intermodal traffic up 2.1%, which was impacted by the West Coast port strike. Commodities have seen broad-based increases with agriculture up 4.6% and chemicals and petroleum products up 3.2%. Coal volumes were down 2.5% in the quarter.

Transportation orders were down 38% with equipment orders down 56% and services were higher by 13%. Equipment orders were lower driven by locomotives, primarily due to not repeating the large South Africa deal we had in the first quarter of last year.

Revenues in the quarter were up 7% driven by strong equipment growth. We shipped 215 locos in the quarter versus 178 a year earlier. Overall Mining continues to be soft, down 23%.

Operating profit in the quarter was up 11% on higher locomotive volume, material deflation and cost productivity. Margins in the quarter expanded by 70 basis points. We now have 16 preproduction Tier 4 units out with our customers running on the rails. They are performing in actual operating conditions as part of our validation process. We had about 1200 Tier 4 locos in backlog at the end of the first quarter of 2015 and we expect to ship about half of those this year.

In Energy Management, orders of $2.1 billion were down 3% and up 2% organically. Power Conversion orders were up 10% in the quarter. Industrial Solutions was up 4% and Digital Energy was down 38% from no repeat of a large domestic meter order from last year. Power Conversion saw strong growth in renewables vertical up 2 times on solar inverters and the marine vertical was up 15% on a large Canadian propulsion dynamic positioning deal in Canada, offset partially by softer Oil and Gas orders. Backlog for our Energy Management business grew 3%.

Revenues were up 1% and up 8% organically driven by foreign exchange with Power Conversion up 6%; Digital Energy and Industrial Systems were both about flat. Op profit was $28 million, up from $5 million last year on a reported basis. The business continues to benefit from restructuring with strong base cost productivity driven by SG&A reductions and positive value gap offset by unfavorable foreign exchange. Margin rates in the quarter were up 140 basis points. We expect program execution and margin rate improvement to continue throughout 2015.

Finally, Appliances and Lighting. Revenue in the quarter was up 5%. Appliance revenues were up 8% driven by strong volume. Industry core units were flat with retail down 1% and contract up 4%. The industry volume was well below the first quarter expectation of plus 8% due to the harsh weather across the US. We believe GE increases our share by 2 points in the first quarter.

Lighting revenues were down 3% on lower traditional product demand, which was down 18%. This was partially offset by continued strong LED performance, which grew 76% in the quarter. LED now makes up 30% plus of Lighting revenues and that is up from 17% of Lighting revenues in the first quarter of 2014. Op profit in the quarter was $103 million.

Now on GE Capital, before we start with the GE Capital results, I would just like to take a moment and highlight the incredible work done by Keith and the GE Capital team. Keith led an enormous and complicated effort in a very challenging window of time to get the Company to this very important strategic pivot. This is a transformational change for our Company that will create real value for investors long term.

As I have covered, the impact of last week's announcement is reflected in GE Capital's first-quarter reported financials. On the page we have provided a walk starting with the earnings from our vertical businesses which generated $352 million for the quarter. Operating earnings from the remainder of our businesses and continuing operations amounted to $1.1 billion, which was more than offset by a $14 billion day one accounting adjustments related to last week's announcement. Earnings from continuing operations amounted to a net loss of $12.5 billion.

Discontinued operations generated additional losses of $2.2 billion, which reflect the charges associated with our Commercial Real Estate business. Overall, GE Capital reported a $14.7 billion loss including $6 billion of tax expenses. We ended the quarter with $303 billion of ENI, excluding liquidity.

Our liquidity levels remain strong and we ended the quarter at $76 billion including $14 billion attributable to Synchrony. Our commercial paper program remained at $25 billion and we had $8 billion of long-term debt issuance for the quarter. As discussed last week, we do not anticipate additional issuances over the next five years.

We expect GE Capital CP balance to decrease to $5 billion by the end of the year. Starting this quarter we are transitioning the capital accuracy reporting from Basel I to Basel III in line with industry practice. Our Basel III Tier 1 common ratio was 10.6% inclusive of the day one charges. We expect this ratio to improve as we dispose of risk-weighted assets over the course of the year.

As I mentioned last Friday, we will operate through the transition in a safe and sound manner working with our regulators in determining the appropriate capital level.

Going forward the team will be very focused on executing the portfolio transformation. As we discussed last week, we have signed deals on close to 50% of the planned ENI reduction for the year and we are receiving very strong inbound interest on many of our portfolios since the discussion last week. We are prioritizing the transaction in a way that allows us to maximize franchise value, and as I said last week, we will be very transparent as we execute through this process.

Overall, Keith and the GE Capital team delivered a strong operational quarter in line with our prior guidance and are now fully focused on delivering on the portfolio transformation that we shared with you last week.

With that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. We remain on track for a 2015 operating framework but we will adjust our guidance milestones to reflect last week's announcement on Capital.

Industrial EPS is on track for $1.10 to $1.20 and we are running our businesses to the high end of that range. We are generating solid organic growth and margin expansion; corporate costs are being well-managed with gains equal to restructuring, and Oil and Gas is performing to our expectations.

We continue to invest in industrial growth. Between research and development, investment and planned equipment and information technology and the potential for bolt-on industrial M&A, we will invest $10 billion to $15 billion each year in our industrial growth. We can do this and still return significant capital to investors.

The GE Capital verticals are tracking to $0.15 per share and, as Jeff said, we are focused on the verticals and we will keep them top of mind. We have set a target of $90 billion in asset sales and this is part of our guidance. We already have approximately 50% announced and have a robust pipeline to achieve this by year end. Again, we will update this at EPG.

Free cash flow remains on track to $12 billion to $15 billion. Dispositions in CFOA are on track and we expect GE Capital to dividend between $500 million and $7 billion in line with what we talked about last week and we will update this as we go through the year.

We will continue to drive investor friendly capital allocation. The dividend remains a top priority. We are still expecting the Synchrony split to return $20 billion to you in the form of a share exchange and as you saw last week, our Board has authorized a $50 billion buyback based on the proceeds from the GE Capital sale.

So between Synchrony, the buyback and dividends we can return $90 billion to investors over the next few years.

The Company is executing well operationally and strategically. Our compensation plans have aligned us with investors and we expect to have a solid second quarter and total year.

Matt, now back to you for some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. Thanks, Jeff. I will now turn it over to the operator to open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: I was intrigued by a couple of comments that you made but Jeff Bornstein, the comment you made on incoming interest into the asset sales. Give us a sense of -- I think the question really is, give us a sense of your availability to sell those assets quicker than you laid out in your timetable, meaning are the books out, do you have -- if the sovereign showed up tomorrow could you hand them the keys and a few months later it is you can get the deal done? Or is there some gating factors that could limit the timing?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would say Scott, the amount of inbound interest has been incredible in both nonbanks and banks, both domestic and international interest. So I think that we are buoyed by the demand that we see so far. It really depends on the platform and the type of transaction we are talking about and we are organized to be able to do this as quickly as possible. Our goal is to monetize these assets, these platforms as fast as we can. There will be some gating challenges on getting ourselves in a position to -- as you described -- to get all the books together, etc., etc. But we are going to go after this as fast as humanly possible and I think the positive point here is the level of interest is really quite incredible.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's good. And then Jeff Immelt, you made a comment in your prepared remarks about wanting to get to an efficient balance sheet, or something in that regard. And I hadn't really heard you mention it in those terms before. How do you think of an efficient industrial balance sheet? Is there some sort of a range of leverage, or some way to measure that?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Scott, in the near term I think you have to think about us as safe and secure and marching through this process with GE Capital and things like that. Over the long-term I think our desire is to have an industrial looking balance sheet and how fast that goes again depends on Jeff's answer earlier on GE Capital assets and things like that. But our goal is to have over time to have investors look at GE as an industrial company and have a balance sheet that lines up more or less with our peers in that space.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And then last just a cleanup item. What impact on margins was currency in the quarter. Did you have a benefit from hedges in the margin improvement?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, actually. FX was a drag on margins in the quarter. As I talked about in the industrial segment margin we had about $120 million FX drag and hedges were a very small offset to the total impact. We actually had negative impacts all in.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Very helpful. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks and good morning. Can we go to that $1.10 to $1 framework. I heard you say that you are running the businesses to the high end of that range. Maybe an idea of what does that mean and also how much -- can you just remind us, how much of that is Alstom?

JEFF IMMELT: Again Steve, the way to think about that is we have an AEIP plan, a compensation plan and that lines up with how the internal business plans work. So I think we talked to you guys, Steve, at the year-end meeting and at EPG about the comp plan we have the team to. So when you look at the AEIP plan that frames compensation for the leadership team, that is what I referred to and it's really the same comment I made in January about how we are running the place.

I think with Alston, Steve, we are counting on $0.01 for the year, so not really much impact in 2015 and more so in 2016.

STEVEN WINOKER: So maybe just sticking on that then and maybe this is to Jeff Bornstein on this one. If we just walked our way from again this $0.31 and given the trending of Oil and Gas, just maybe -- I think having just a little challenge given the weakness we are seeing in other companies bringing down guidance in Oil and Gas and related areas. What gives you guys the confidence of getting to that over the next three quarters and a more than sequential second-half ramp and things like that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Listen, I think that the scenarios we share with you at year end we updated again in the first quarter call -- I'm sorry, in the first quarter on the fourth quarter call. We evaluated a number of different scenarios around Oil and Gas. As we communicated to you, all of those scenarios we felt were within the range for $1.10 or $1.20. We've got the team -- Lorenzo and the team are executing like crazy on a substantial cost plan. They are right on track, actually slightly ahead of schedule. They're going to take out close to $600 million of costs this year both base cost and products and service costs.

So when we take a look at where we ended here in the first quarter with Oil and Gas and how we think about the balance in the next three quarters, and very importantly with all the restructuring that we are doing, the benefits of that largely in the second half of the year, we feel like today based on everything we know that those scenarios and that guidance we gave you remains intact.

JEFF IMMELT: Let me add just a little bit to what Jeff said. I think he framed this year well. I think at the quarter the guys are actually probably a little bit better than what we had anticipated but you see all the volatility in the market and this is going to be something we have to continue to evaluate quarter by quarter.

But at the same time I think one of the advantages we have at GE is we can look at other businesses that have the potential to do better and over the context of the Company, we have got a framework that we are confident in even if other scenarios in Oil and Gas take place. So I think that is one of the strengths of GE. You have seen the way Aviation got out of the gate and some businesses get a chance to provide some upside maybe during the year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And then just lastly on this topic, the 1.4% order pricing negative order pricing in Oil and Gas again, that is really -- how should we think about that in terms -- are these additional -- is there any additional renegotiation or existing backlog happening, or is this new and where are you seeing the weakness on that front?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so when you look at order pricing, Steve, that 1.4% is almost entirely associated with the Ghana subsidy order we took. So it's not broadly across the portfolio. We have not renegotiated any prices from existing backlog. So that's where we are today.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. I will hand it on. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Maybe I will let others ask questions on Oil and Gas. Let's focus a little bit elsewhere. As I look into 2016 and what about Renewables? And I guess I will touch on Oil and Gas, what about Subsea because the industry timing on Subsea suggests that orders will be very strong this year. But what does it mean for 2016 in Power and Water and Oil and Gas given the specific regulatory dynamic and industry specific dynamic in these two sub segments?

JEFF IMMELT: So I think with Renewables, again what I would say, Andrew, is we always think about the US in the context of the PTC and there is nothing we see today that indicates that the PTC is not going to get rolled over in some capacity. So that kind of keeps the US at a kind of let's say steady-state. And then when you look around the world, you see growth. I think if you look at Brazil, if you look at places in Europe, if you look at even Africa and Middle East, we see pretty good growth -- China -- we see pretty good growth in wind globally. So --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I think we are thinking we will do another 3000 turbines is our current estimate in 2016 as well. There is a shift. It's going to be more international than domestic as we move forward, no question about that.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: But roughly the same kind of volume.

JEFF IMMELT: I think the way to think about Subsea is on the incoming order standpoint, each project is going to get a ton of scrutiny whether it is the Ghana project that we signed or Bonga in Nigeria or projects in Australia or things like that. But once a project is going, it is unlikely that it will be stopped. In other words, you already have fixed costs and when it gets into the production mode it is unlikely that it is going to slow down. So we still think Subsea in 2015 and 2016 are going to be okay within that context.

ANDREW OBIN: And just to follow-up a little bit shorter term looking to the second quarter you highlighted some delays in Power and Water and Aviation. So if these two segments recover actually into the second quarter, what does it imply for organic industrial growth in the second quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well I think at the moment here we have given you guidance for the year here. We expect organic growth will be 2% to 5% for the year. We were at 3% here in the first quarter. I think that is generally the trend we expect to be on throughout the year.

ANDREW OBIN: But directionally that would imply that ex-Oil and Gas there should be some room for acceleration in the rest of the business, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, we see those segments getting better in the second quarter but again we don't want to do organic revenue guidance quarter by quarter, Andrew. (multiple speakers). We are comfortable in the range and we will leave the rest to you.

ANDREW OBIN: I tried. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, UBS: So maybe just on the equipment margin improvement, 120 basis points -- pretty impressive. It looks like some benefit from mix in the quarter. As we go forward assuming you can't count on that mix every quarter, value gap, cost productivity and some of those things Jeff Bornstein and Dan Heintzelman are working on, does that ramp as quickly as 2Q, 3Q and maybe just a little expectation on how you see that equipment margin playing out through the year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So we expect that the initiatives that the teams have going and that Dan and I are working with the businesses on will gain momentum as we move throughout the year. As you saw on Jeff's page when he walked through the margins, we had 60 basis points of mix. I think what we talked about at year end when we talked about the year was mix that probably wanted to be -- or hopefully would be something more neutral. So I would expect us to do -- to gain momentum on the cost line, in the product service cost line and we will see were mix plays out but I would assume for the year that mix will be roughly neutral.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: And any segments so far as you are attacking that cost structure, any segments that you are particularly encouraged by the opportunity you have seen?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I think every single one of these businesses have enormous opportunity. When you look at the first quarter results, particularly around equipment margins, just about every business had improvement with the exception of Power and Water and Oil and Gas. So I think it is not unique to any one business. Every one of these businesses has an enormous opportunity to get product and service cost at another level.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And then just maybe on Alstom, Jeff Immelt, you mentioned some of the difficult trends in the market that Alstom would be facing that you are also seeing, obviously. Can you still get to the plan there even if the markets are a little tougher? Any update in terms of the regulatory process and how some of the concerns of the European Commission around heavy-duty gas turbine concentration might be remedied?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I would say -- let me answer the second piece first, Shannon. I would say there's nothing really that has been a big surprise as we go through this, so we always thought that there would be a second request or that process would take until this summer and so I would say so far nothing really is a surprise.

I think on the financials, we still look for high teens return and $0.16 accretion in 2016, so we still feel that is achievable and synergies are quite robust and we like that.

And the last thing I would say is look, at the end of the day just like every deal, we have always reserve as we do these transactions that we will only do deals that are investor friendly and that achieve good returns. And so I think we have established that in this case and I think we are optimistic about how Alstom fits with GE.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a question on Power and Water. The services orders were down a decent amount, sales though were up. So maybe give a little bit of color around what is going on in the Thermal Services business in particular by region because it does seem as if the orders are softer, AGP as well, and sales are still okay.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So Julian, I would start with orders were soft year-over-year largely because we had a very large upgrade in Japan last year that we just didn't repeat this year. Secondly, the number of new unit installs that the services business worked on in the quarter were fewer year-over-year. So that is most of what we saw in softness in Power Gen Services. AGP is about flat. We told you we think we would do about 100 for the year. We will do 100 for the year. I don't think we are changing any of the outlook there. So I don't think there is a broad theme here even geographically around Power Gen Services.

OPERATOR: Barbara Noverini, Morningstar.

BARBARA NOVERINI, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: So is predictivity growth tracking your expectations since you spoke about your plans back in the fall? And can you talk about which of your operating segments are driving the most demand for predictive analytic solutions this year?

JEFF IMMELT: So we see again I would say 30% to 40% growth pretty consistently across the business in software and predictivity. I just had a review with all the businesses last week and so there is a variety of different initiatives. I would say clearly the power and power upgrade, things like power up on the wind turbine side, we've got 10 installs but really another 100 behind that that is quite exciting.

As I mentioned, the rail business has got an expectation to grow orders about 50% for the year, so we're seeing both from a software and things like movement planner side growing.

The radiology IT piece is up 13% in terms of new bookings in the quarter, so some pretty good activity there. We've kind of launched what we call asset performance management, APM, in Oil and Gas, so we are seeing an original service funnel in that activity. So I would say macro kind of in the 30% to 40% range with strong double digits in each business as we look at software and predictivity for the year.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: A couple of questions on the Aviation side, that spares number being up 31% really jumps out. Do you see changes in airline behavior? Is this coming through because of lower fuel and how sustainable is this through 2015?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, you heard the revenue -- the volume numbers are pretty good. Revenue passenger miles are very, very strong. There is no question that most of the forecasts are that the aviation industry globally -- probably having its most profitable year in history this year. I think IADA is estimating almost $25 billion of profit. And the airlines are no question stocking inventory. You will recall that in 2012 there was a really large destocking that went on and since that destocking in 2012, spares have improved each of the last couple of years.

So it may be that the airlines based on the profitability of operations are more aggressively replenishing some of that destocking that happened a few years ago. But very strong.

Now we don't expect that rate of 31% to persist for the year. I think we talked about double digits and we're probably talking about mid double digits, midteens maybe. But it's not going to be 31% for the year.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Just wanted to circle back around to Alstom. Given that there was kind of such an abrupt change in strategy around Capital and you are achieving kind of your business mix goal kind of through subtraction largely, how do you actually feel about Alstom here? Is that really the right asset? Is there a way to back out of that if the EU is a little too demanding?

JEFF IMMELT: I would take that in two pieces. I would say the premise for the deal, Jeff, is as relevant today as it has been in the past, which is very complementary products, opportunity to drive excellent synergies, good return on investments. And we feel at -- 4 times EBITDA post synergies is a pretty attractive entry point into an investment like that, so high double digits returns in a market we really know.

And then I think just like -- I would back up and say the Company has gotten probably 100 deals through Brussels in the past decade, something like that, so I think we know how to approach this and know how to get these things done. But just like every other deal we've ever done, if this one ever would become unattractive, we wouldn't do it. So that's no different than any other transaction we have ever done as a Company.

OPERATOR: Robert McCarthy, Stifel.

ROBERT MCCARTHY, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: It looks like we've reached the lightning round of the call so I've got one question. I'll make it count. In any event, just in terms of the timing of the divestiture of a large part of these GE Capital assets, obviously the inbound [call] volumes are very encouraging but at the end of the day given the size, scope and nature of a lot of these businesses, you are going to be dealing probably with a lot of large, SIFI-like institutions. How do you reconcile the need for speed killing in terms of getting to these divestitures versus getting the right price? And how are you thinking about those decisions and do you think the timeline is practical?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I think that the plan that Keith laid out with all of you last week -- we laid out a plan that spanned 2 1/2 years here roughly. But that we thought that the bulk of this work would be done by the end of 2016. Now we're going to try to outperform that, there is no question. I think that when we think about the risks associated with this, including price and value, speed is the single biggest mitigant. We have a market today that is incredibly receptive to these kinds of assets and so we need to be able to capitalize on that.

There is no question we've got to balance from an execution standpoint the nature of the buyer and the size of the transaction to the extent that we are relying on maybe a back-end regulatory approval by the buyer with doing smaller transactions that maybe, maybe not, may be better from a price perspective than doing several large big bulk deals.

But I think my guess is that Keith and the team will run almost a parallel process there where we will evaluate on both tracks, platform by platform, portfolio by portfolio the level of interest there versus a couple, several maybe, much larger deals that try to sweep up many of those platforms simultaneously.

So we are completely aware of exactly what you are asking and we have a process and we will make sure that we evaluate in those lights, but speed is the key.

JEFF IMMELT: Rob, I just want to say that the lifetime achievement award winner, JoAnna Morris, is working the phones this morning, so don't blame Jeff Bornstein or me for any of this activity. And I want to echo just what Jeff Bornstein said, which is you've got to think of each one of these assets having multiple options for what we do. So it's not like for any one of these there's only going to be one game plan. There is going to be multiple for every platform.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: So just to be clear, is the Oil and Gas guidance -- what is that now for the year? I'm not sure there was like an explicit comment on Oil and Gas. And then if you could just opine on the -- a little more clarity around what happened with the Aviation supply chain? There has definitely been a lot of noise from maybe sub suppliers and stuff like that around that supply chain, so just curious as to how you guys are fitting into that puzzle?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We didn't change anything on our guidance on Oil and Gas, Steve. So I think what we said is down 0% to 5%, probably closer to 5%. We evaluated scenarios beyond 5%. All of those were considered in the guidance we gave you $1.10 to $1.20. We've got the team executing to a plan that supports the $1.10 to $1.20. As Jeff talked about, he has incented the team and our targets internally on the higher end of that range, not the lower end of that range. So no change to anything we've shared with you in the two calls previous to this.

JEFF IMMELT: And then I would say, Steve, the production is ramping in 2Q and getting back on schedule and no real update other than what Jeff Bornstein said on the call.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: The first question -- I guess first and only question is really on the order of priority on the asset sales. Can you just discuss a little bit both on CLL and Consumer? And I guess specifically as it relates to US versus international, how you are thinking about the order of priority because I would imagine that given your goal to de-designate the non-bank SIFI I would imagine would be focused on the US assets. So any color there would be helpful.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So what Keith and the team are focused on first and foremost are those platforms where we might be more concerned about the franchise value itself where the people are a big component of the value creation process. So he has prioritized the focus based on that first.

You are correct, I would say the second order of priority would be we think in the US our ability to execute quickly and in scale is very favorable today and it is a big part of the discussion around the SIFI status. So having said that, it is not as though we are not going to do anything outside the US. We are going to be working the international platform in parallel here as well.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: So Jeff, I think you are going to win the prize for most bullish CEO this quarter. The $1.20, I just wanted to define what you mean by working towards the high end because right now the consensus is close to $1.10. So are you encouraged enough to raise our numbers and if so, do you see a path to 5% organic, or is it primarily midpoint to low point but offset by margin? So any comments there would be helpful.

JEFF IMMELT: Nigel, this is the exact same comment I made in January that just centers where the internal incentive plan sits. And the internal incentive plan sits towards the high end of the range and we were transparent about this at year end and we have been transparent about in January and I am transparent about it in April.

Again, I think the value of a portfolio is that you've got a series of businesses that are doing well and you've got markets that are still volatile out there and we just want to see how that continues to evolve.

Like I said earlier, like Jeff said, we are pleased with where Oil and Gas finished in the first quarter but that market is extremely volatile right now and we just want to see how we continue to progress, what happens in the marketplace and let's see what happens.

There's plenty of chance to make other changes as the year goes through but let's see how we do quarter by quarter and beyond that look, I think we are -- we've got a good diversified set of businesses that are doing well in the industries they are in and we need to see how the world continues to evolve.

MATT CRIBBINS: Okay. A couple of announcements before we wrap up. Next Wednesday we will hold our annual shareholders' meeting in Oklahoma City. On May 20, Jeff will present at EPG and on June 16, we will hold our Paris Airshow Investor Meeting. As always we will be available later today to take your questions. Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Matt. Thanks. Thanks, everybody. We announced a lot last week on really positioning the Company for the future. We are excited about that strategic change, that strategic pivot. The underlying performance of the Company both Industrial and GE Capital is per our expectations for the year. We continue to make progress. We are pleased by the execution of the team in the first quarter and we look forward to the rest of the year. Thanks, Matt.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | africaz : Africa | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150419eb4h0015q
  


 HD
 Q4  2014  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,124 words
   PD
23 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Larissa and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I'd now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great. Thank you. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's fourth-quarter webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release, presentation, and GE supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.GE.com/investor. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes; please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Hey, thanks, Matt. Good morning, everybody. Look, we still see the global environment as generally positive with a lot of volatility. GE had a strong fourth quarter, with some elements better than we indicated in December.

Operating EPS was $0.56, up 6%, led by Industrial EPS, which grew by 23%. Orders grew by 3%, which was 5% organically, and our backlog expanded to a new record. Industrial organic growth was up 9% and margins expanded by 50 basis points.

Our initiatives continue to deliver results. Industrial CFOA was $7.2 billion, up 64% reported in the quarter, or 30% ex- the 2013 NBCU taxes. Capital's quarter was consistent with our expectations.

The US continued to strengthen, as did Asia. Some businesses are seeing more momentum, like Aviation and Healthcare. Our Oil & Gas team executed well despite volatility; they're underlying performance was revenue flat and earnings up 6%, and we believe that our diverse and integrated model worked for investors in the quarter as it will in 2015.

We delivered on our key commitments for the year. Industrial segment profits grew by 10%, driven by 7% organic growth and 50 basis points of margin expansion. GE Capital reduced ENI by $17 billion and hit their earnings plan.

CFOA was in the middle of the range at $15.2 billion. Free cash flow was $11.2 billion, up 6% for the year.

Our capital allocation choices were in line with expectations. On the M&A front, Alstom should be a financial and strategic driver; Appliances is well priced and done at a good point in the cycle; and the Synchrony spin will result in a substantial reduction in GE shares.

We are executing a valuable pivot at GE, one that improves our business mix while delivering EPS growth and expanding returns.

Now for orders, total orders grew by 3%, which is pretty good in the environment. As I said earlier, organically, this is 5% in total, with 3% in equipment and 8% growth in services. Orders grew by 7% for the year.

We had strength in services, which was up 6% in the quarter and 10% for the year. And we grew backlog by $17 billion year-over-year.

Power & Water had a solid quarter, but comps were impacted by the huge Algerian deal in 2013. Without that, orders were up 13% in the quarter. We now have 15 H orders with another 30 technical selections.

Oil & Gas orders were down 4% organically, consistent with our expectations. Turbomachinery actually saw orders grow by 16% in the quarter.

Aviation orders grew by 15%, and they end the year with a record backlog. Aviation commercial spares grew by 37% in the quarter.

Importantly, the US Healthcare equipment orders grew by 17%, demonstrating renewed strength in our biggest market.

Our success with the Tier 4 locomotive continues. We took 1,355 orders in 2014 and are positioned for record shipments in 2015.

The US was strong, with orders growing by 18% in the fourth quarter, following a 25% growth in the third quarter.

Growth markets were mixed. For instance, Middle East and North Africa was negative in the quarter due to the Algerian order I talked about earlier, but was up 20% for the year. And Asian growth market orders grew by 21%.

We closed 2014 with a backlog of $261 billion. In December we called out a 2015 organic growth range of 2% to 5%, and we still feel good about this range.

For execution, our team really executed well in the quarter, with organic growth up 9% and margins up 50 basis points. For the year, Industrial segment profit was up 10%, with 7% organic revenue growth and 50 basis points of margin enhancement.

Our initiatives are driving growth ahead of our peers. Our product lineup is quite strong.

The H-turbine is winning in the market. Our Aviation wins are huge, with 79% LEAP share to date. The Tier 4 continues to win. Our Healthcare products are gaining share in CT, MR, and Ultrasound.

Aviation commercial spare shipments grew by 24%, and PowerGen services grew revenue by 14%. As I said earlier, growth markets revenues expanded by 7% in 2014, with five of nine regions growing.

Also, an update on a few of our adjacencies. Life Sciences grew earnings by 15% for the year. Water hit a 10% operating profit rate in the quarter, with 26% earnings growth for the year.

And we won the Boeing 777X onboard computing system. This is a huge win and positions GE as a Tier 1 avionics supplier.

Margins continue to be a good story, up 50 basis points for the year. Simplification and services again are the big drivers.

We hit 14% of structural costs as a percentage of sales for the year, with another $1.2 billion of cost-out and Corporate costs, ex-gains, restructuring, and NBCU, declined by more than $900 million.

We are seeing the impact of analytics on service productivity. Service margins grew by 270 basis points in the quarter. We have momentum in every business, and with an intensifying focus on gross margins in product cost, we're on track for another year of margin growth in 2015.

Now on to cash. For the quarter our Industrial cash grew by 64% to $7.2 billion. This is consistent with our expectations for the quarter and the year.

We finished the year by shipping a tremendous amount of volume, and our teams did a great job on working capital, which reduced by $2 billion in the fourth quarter. Free cash flow for the year was $11.2 billion, up 6%. And the GE Capital dividend was $3 billion, below the $6 billion they delivered in 2013.

We ended the year with substantial liquidity and financial strength. GE Capital ended the year with Tier 1 common ratio of 12.7%, substantially above the regulatory guidelines. We returned about $11 billion to investors in dividends and buyback, and we remain on track for $12 billion to $15 billion for free cash flow and dispositions in 2015.

We will allocate our capital in line with the discussion we had in December. Our priority is to execute on Alstom, fund organic growth, and continue to grow the dividend. Remember that Synchrony at the current pricing should return $18 billion to $20 billion to investors in a share exchange.

In any environment where we have an uncertain macro economy, it's important to talk about execution. In 2014 in our performance, you can see the tangible results of how we are running GE.

Our underlying business has significant operational momentum supported by the changes to how we are running GE day to day, with more transparency and more accountability. This was an excellent execution quarter for the team, and now Jeff will give you the business details.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'll start with the fourth-quarter summary. We had revenues of $42 billion, up 4% in the quarter. Industrial sales of $31 billion were up 8%, and GE Capital revenues of $11.5 billion were up 4%.

Operating earnings of $5.6 billion were higher by 4%. Operating earnings per share of $0.56 were up 6%, with Industrial EPS up 23% and GE Capital EPS down 17%. Continuing EPS of $0.52 includes the impact of non-operating pension; and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations.

We had $0.01 impact in discontinued operations this quarter associated with WMC. This was driven by a reserve increase of $142 million to reflect WMC's current assessment of its loan loss exposure based on recent settlement activity and negotiations. WMC ended the quarter with $809 million in reserves, flat with fourth quarter of 2013.

As Jeff said, CFOA for the year was $15.2 billion. We had Industrial CFOA of $12.2 billion and received $3 billion of dividends from GE Capital. In the quarter, Industrial generated $7.2 billion of CFOA, up 64% on a reported basis and up 30% excluding the impact of NBCU taxes from last year.

The GE tax rate for the quarter was 13%, bringing the year-to-date rate to 17%. In the quarter, we benefited from the passage of the extenders bill and deductions from higher restructuring and impairments. The GE Capital tax rate was 5% for the quarter and 2% for the year, consistent with the low single digits estimate that we previously communicated.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial segment revenues were up 6% reported and up 9% organically, reflecting about 2 points of headwind from foreign exchange and 1 point from acquisitions and dispositions.

Foreign exchange was approximately $600 million drag on Industrial segment revenue and about $180 million impact on op profit in the quarter. Despite this headwind, Industrial segment operating profit was up 9%.

GE Capital earnings were down 19%, primarily driven by lower gains and tax benefits associated with the Swiss and the BAY transactions from the fourth quarter of last year.

I'll cover the dynamics of each of the segments in a couple of pages. First, I'll start with the Other items page for the quarter. We had $0.04 of restructuring and other charges at Corporate, but with $0.02 of that related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to take actions to improve the Industrial cost structure. At $353 million pretax, this was approximately $75 million higher than the plan and reflects the acceleration of some restructuring opportunities from 2015.

We also had a $217 million pretax charge for an impairment related to a strategic investment in the Energy space. This investment has underperformed in the market, but we continue to expect there to be long-term value in the asset.

In November of 2013 I reviewed with investors our plan to invest $1 billion to $1.5 billion in restructuring to accelerate the repositioning of our Industrial cost footprint and position us to grow earnings through the pivot in 2015 and 2016. On the bottom of the page is the profile of those restructuring and other charges that we took in 2014 by quarter, and the $0.01 gain associated with the Wayne disposition. For the total year, net charges were $0.11 per share or $1.7 billion pretax.

Next I'll give you an update on Industrial cost dynamics. On SG&A, we have made a lot of progress. We ended the year at 14% SG&A to sales, which is down almost 2 points from 2013.

This was driven by a combination of cost-out efforts in the Industrial segments and Corporate. For the year, we took out $1.2 billion of structural costs, in line with the $1 billion-plus we've been communicating with you.

On the bottom left you can see Industrial segment gross margins excluding Corporate. For the year, segment gross margins were down 80 basis points, which is driven entirely by negative mix as we grew equipment revenues faster than services, particularly in Wind, GEnx, and Thermal.

As we discussed at the December outlook meeting, Dan Heintzelman, Jamie Miller, and I are driving a focused initiative to improve Industrial gross margins through an intense focus on product cost, similar to our programmatic approach around SG&A. We are targeting to improve gross margins by 50 basis points in 2015.

On the right side you can see the Corporate operating costs. The bar graph excludes gains, restructuring, and NBCU operations from 2013, so you can see our true operating expenses.

We have taken significant actions on Corporate costs, with about $950 million reduction for the year. This includes functional headquarter cost improvements, lower global and growth spend, operating pension and retiree health cost improvements, and nonrepeating charges in 2013, principally the EBX charge we took in the second quarter of 2013.

The focus on reducing Corporate costs will continue into 2015, and we expect Corporate costs to be about $2.3 billion to $2.5 billion for the year. We'll continue to reduce Corporate costs, but this will be partly offset by higher pension expenses, as Jeff outlined during the Outlook Meeting in December.

Now I'll go into the segments and start with Power & Water. Orders in the fourth quarter totaled $9.5 billion, down 8%. Orders were higher by 13% excluding the Algerian mega-deal in the fourth quarter of last year.

Equipment orders were down 12%, driven by Thermal down 62% as a result of a difficult comparison to last year's 270% increase, including Algeria. We had orders for 41 gas turbines in the quarter, flat with last year, excluding the Algerian deal.

The fourth quarter received an order for two H-turbines, bringing units in backlog to 15 H's, and we have been selected for another 30 units on projects and are bidding an additional 61 units as we speak. Total gas turbine order count for the year finished at 105 units, representing 18 gigawatts of power.

Partially offsetting Thermal's orders decline was Distributed Power, which was higher by 66%, and Renewables was up 47% in the quarter. Distributed Power equipment growth was driven by turbines, up over 100%, partly offset by a decline in engines.

The turbine strength was attributed to a large win in Egypt consisting of 20 trailer-mounted units, 14 LM6000s, and some balance of plant. The 20 TMs and six of the 14 LMs converted to sales in the quarter. For the year, DP recorded orders for 167 turbines versus 174 in 2013.

Renewables equipment orders were up 47%, reflecting orders for 1,251 turbines. The US was up 16%, including 138 Safe Harbor units associated with the PTC extension. We saw significant growth in Latin America, the Middle East, and in regions we took no orders in the fourth quarter of 2013, including China and India.

Service orders were down 2%, also driven by no repeat of the Algerian deal. Excluding Algeria, service orders grew 9% on strong transactional upgrades and outages. AGPs in the quarter were 26 versus 25 last year, bringing the total year AGP count to 80.

Power & Water revenues of $9.4 billion in the quarter were up 22% with very strong equipment revenues, up 37%, and service revenues up 7%. Equipment revenue was driven by strength in Thermal, up 64%, with sales of 44 gas turbines versus 28 last year, and Renewables up 20% on 206 more wind turbines, and DP up 33% in the quarter.

Operating profit in the quarter totaled $2.1 billion, up 13% versus fourth quarter of 2013. Earnings were driven by higher volume and cost productivity, partially offset by negative value gap, principally price, and unfavorable mix of higher equipment sales versus services. SG&A in the quarter was down 12% year-over-year, and margins in the quarter were down 190 basis points.

As you look into 2015 we expect to continue to grow services, including upgrades. We anticipate a flat gas turbine market but expect to gain share. We are planning for Wind to deliver 3,000 to 3,200 units, and Distributed Power will continue to be pressured as we look into 2015.

Next, Oil & Gas. Oil & Gas orders at $4.9 billion were down 10% in the fourth quarter. Excluding the effects of FX and the Wayne disposition, orders were down 4%.

Notwithstanding the volatility of oil prices in the fourth quarter, we believe the relative impact was modest, with more impact expected in 2015. Equipment orders of $2.5 billion were down 15% reported; down 9% organically.

The Subsea orders were down 38%, with no repeat of large fourth quarter of last year orders with Petrobras and ENI. Downstream Technology orders were down 46%, driven by a large Shell order in the fourth quarter of last year in our distributed gas solutions business, partially offset by strong growth of 7% in our Downstream products platform.

Measurement and Control equipment orders were up 6% organically as we continue to see improvement in end flow and process markets. Drilling and Surface orders were down 2% with Drilling down 72%, as expected, partly offset by 7% growth in our Surface business.

Turbomachinery was up 60% on natural gas orders in North America, the Middle East, and in Russia. Service orders were down 4% but up 1% organically, and TMS orders were down 10% on lower installations in the quarter, partly offset by 6% organic growth in M&C, Downstream Technology growth of 16%, and Drilling and Surface higher by 11%. For the year, total orders were flat with, backlog up 1%.

Oil & Gas revenues in the quarter of $5 billion were down 6% reported and flat organically, driven by 3 points of FX and 3 points of disposition impact. Equipment revenues were down 5%, with Subsea down 10%, but flat excluding exchange.

M&C was higher by 3% organically; and Downstream Technology and Drilling and Surface were up 10% and 11%, respectively. Service revenues were down 6%, primarily driven by TMS down 11% and M&C down 5%, but M&C was up 12% organically.

Operating profit in the quarter was higher by 1% versus the fourth quarter of last year, and up 6% organically driven by strong value gap and cost productivity, offset by the effects of foreign exchange. Margins expanded 110 basis points in the quarter, and 100 basis points for the year.

As we outlined in the December Outlook Meeting, 2015 will be a challenging year for our Oil & Gas business. Lorenzo and the team are focused on executing on the cost-out actions to offset volatility and deliver on their commitments.

Next up is Aviation. Aviation demand continues to be strong, with revenue passenger kilometers November year-to-date up 6.1% on international routes and up 5.3% on domestic routes. Freight growth was 4.4% November year-to-date.

Orders for Aviation were strong, up 15% in the quarter. Equipment orders of $4.4 billion were higher by 8% and service orders grew 25%.

Equipment orders were principally driven by commercial engines. GEnx orders of $1.2 billion were up 23% on large orders from American and Air France. GE90 orders were up 2.5 times to $900 million in the quarter; and LEAP and CFM recorded $1.2 billion of orders. Our total win rate for the LEAP since launch is now at 79% on narrow-body aircraft.

Military equipment orders were down 59%, driven by the slow military environment.

Service orders, up 25%, were driven by strong commercial spares orders at $35.6 million a day, up 37%, and stronger military spares. Orders for total-year 2014 grew 8% and backlog grew 7% for the year to $134 billion.

Revenues in the fourth quarter were higher by 4% to $6.4 billion, driven by commercial equipment revenues, up 8%; services, up 3%; and military equipment, down 3%. Commercial spares were strong, up 24%.

We shipped 77 GEnx units in the quarter and 287 for the year. Leverage and operating profit was strong with 12% growth from volume and positive value gap, partly offset by mix and higher R&D. Op margins improved 140 basis points in the quarter.

Overall, the Aviation team had a strong quarter and year, and we expect strong performance to continue into 2015.

Next is Healthcare. Healthcare had a better quarter than the headline results would suggest.

Orders were up 1% in the quarter, but up 4% excluding foreign exchange. The US was quite strong, up 9%.

Latin America and China were both up 2%, offset by Europe: down 1%, but up 5% organically. Japan was down 23%, driven by the consumption tax and reimbursement reform, and the Middle East was down 26%, mostly driven by Saudi.

Healthcare system orders were down 3%, but up 2% organically, driven by US imaging and Ultrasound equipment orders, which were up 12% in the quarter. We saw growth across most modalities with particular strength in CT, up 22%, from our new Revolution CT introduction, and Ultrasound up 15% from our new Voluson product in the women's health diagnostic space.

This was offset by softer orders in Japan, Russia, and the Middle East. China orders were up 2%, reflecting delays in government tenders we've seen over the last several quarters.

Life Science orders up 13% driven by bioprocess, up 60% on very strong demand in the US and Europe, offset partially by core imaging, down 7%. Revenues of $5.1 billion were flat, but higher by 3% ex-foreign exchange. HCS revenues were down 3%, but up 2% organically. Life Science revenues were up 9%, and up 6% organically.

Operating profit was down 4%, but was up 1% organically. The strong cost execution, including 5% lower SG&A, was more than offset by price and foreign exchange.

Looking forward, we expect the US market to continue to improve. Although final industry figures have yet to be published, we believe we are winning share in key modalities in the US, and China should grow modestly as we look into 2015. The business will continue to drive structural and product costs out as we move forward.

Next, Transportation, which had a strong orders quarter, up 62%, with equipment orders up 107% and services higher by 19%. In 2014 Transportation had its strongest orders year ever, at $9.6 billion, up 89%.

Locomotive orders in the quarter were 284 units versus 70 last year, driven by North America where we took orders for 235 additional Tier 4-compliant units. For the total year 2014 we received orders for 1,355 Tier 4-compliant locomotives.

Backlog for the year grew 43% to $21 billion, with equipment higher by 148% and services higher by 22%.

Carloads grew strongly in North America, up 4.4% in 2014, led by intermodal up 5.4%. Commodities including agriculture were up 3.7%, and petroleum was up 12.5% for the year. In the fourth quarter, petroleum volumes continued to grow, up 16% year-over-year.

Revenues in the quarter were up 8% driven by locomotives up 8%, services up 14%, partly offset by Mining down by 31%. For the total year, revenue was down 4%, largely driven by Mining.

Operating profit in the quarter was up 13% on higher locomotive volume, material deflation, and cost productivity, partly offset by lower Mining volume. The Transportation team has executed well and has positioned the business to capitalize on the new Tier 4 requirements in 2015.

Next, Energy Management, which earned more in the fourth quarter than it earned in the entirety of 2013. Orders in the quarter were down 2%, largely driven by softer Marine orders and Power Conversion, which was down about 16%, partially offset by Digital Energy, up strongly at 17%, and Industrial Solutions up 5%. Backlog grew 9% to $5 billion.

Revenues were down 2%, but up 2% organically. Power Conversion revenues grew 6%; Digital Energy grew 1%; Industrial Solutions was down 6%.

Operating profit of $113 million was higher by 2.5 times on strong value gap and cost execution. For the year, we earned $246 million of operating profit, up 124%. Execution continues to improve and we expect substantial improvements again in 2015.

In Appliances & Lighting, revenue in the quarter was up 5%. Appliance revenues were up 8%, driven by strong volume. Industry core units were up 8% with both retail and contract markets up 8% as well.

Lighting revenues were down 1% on lower traditional product demand, which was down 15% and more than offset the strong LED lighting growth of 72% in the quarter. LED now makes up 27% of Lighting's revenues, up from 16% in the fourth quarter of last year.

Operating profit of $188 million was up 32% in the quarter, and margins expanded by 160 basis points.

Next I'll cover GE Capital. GE Capital's revenue of $11.5 billion was up 4%, primarily from lower marks and impairments. Net income of $1.9 billion was down 19%, principally driven by lower gains and tax benefits, including those related to last year's portfolio exits, including the Swiss and BAY Bank transactions, partially offset by lower credit costs, marks, and impairments.

ENI, excluding liquidity, of $363 billion was down $17 billion or 5% from last year and down $2 billion sequentially. Nonstrategic ENI was down $12 billion to $132 billion or 8% versus last year.

Net interest margin in the quarter at 5% was essentially flat. GE Capital's Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel I basis remains in a strong position and ended the year at 12.7%. This is up approximately 60 basis points from the third quarter and 150 basis points year-over-year.

Our liquidity levels are strong, ending the quarter at $76 billion. This includes $13 billion attributable to Synchrony.

Our commercial paper program remains stable at $25 billion, and we had $10 billion of long-term debt issuance for the year, excluding the activity related to Synchrony. In 2015, we've already issued $7 billion of long-term debt as part of our total year plan of around $20 billion.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue to be stable, with significant improvements in our mortgage portfolio, driven primarily by the sale of a $0.5 billion nonperforming loan portfolio in our UK home lending business, which generated a small gain during the quarter, and the move of our Hungarian bank to held-for-sale. We expect to complete the exit of the Hungary bank during the first half of 2015.

In terms of the segment performance, Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended the quarter with $172 billion of assets, down 1% to last year, largely driven by foreign exchange. Global on-book volume was $12 billion, down 10%. However, we continue to see strengthening in the US, largely in equipment financing, with volume up 4%.

New business returns in both lending and equipment were largely in line with the first three quarters of the year. Earnings of $549 million were up 109%, driven by lower marks and impairments. In 2014, the CLL business earned $2.3 billion, up 16%.

The Consumer segment ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets, up 3% from last year, with earnings of $1.1 billion, down 45%. Our share of Synchrony earnings was $451 million, down 3%, driven by minority interest and partially offset by core growth.

Consistent with last quarter, as a now publicly traded company, CEO Margaret Keane and the team will host their own investor call later this morning. Separation efforts remain on track.

Excluding Synchrony, assets were down 17%, as we continue to reduce our presence in nonstrategic portfolios. Earnings excluding Synchrony were $686 million, down 57%, driven by the non-repeat of gains and tax benefits recorded last year for the Swiss and BAY transactions, partially offset by a $594 million gain associated with the sale of the Nordics Consumer platform.

Just as a reminder, as a result of the accounting guidelines, roughly half that gain was recognized in prior quarters as tax benefits in GE Capital Corporate. These benefits were reversed in the fourth quarter, and the gain was taken in the Consumer segment, resulting in a net gain in GE Capital of $300 million in the fourth quarter.

In 2014, the Consumer segment earned $3 billion, down 30%.

In Real Estate, assets of $34 billion were down 11% versus prior year. The equity book is down 35% from a year ago to $9 billion. Net income of $299 million was up 134%, driven by higher gains and portfolio earnings, partially offset by higher impairments.

In the current quarter, we sold 350 properties from our Real Estate equity book, with a book value of about $2.1 billion, for $320 million in gain. In 2014, the Real Estate business earned $1 billion, down 42% on lower gains.

In the verticals, GECAS earned $218 million, up 207%, driven by lower impairments, partially offset by lower gains and lower assets. Overall, the portfolio is in great shape, and we finished the quarter with zero delinquencies and three aircraft on the ground.

New volume remains strong at $2 billion, up 50% with attractive returns in line with the first three quarters of the year. For the year, GECAS earned $1 billion and was up 17% from prior year. The Milestone acquisition continues to progress, and we expect to close during the first quarter of 2015, pending regulatory approvals.

Energy Finance earned $111 million, down 5% in the quarter, in line with lower assets. EFS's volume was up 31% year-over-year at very attractive returns. In 2014, EFS business earned $401 million, down 2%.

Overall, Keith and the team continue to execute the portfolio strategy and deliver solid operating results. As we look forward to 2015, we expect GE Capital to generate about $0.60 on an EPS basis, as Jeff discussed last month during the annual Outlook Meeting. We expect GE Capital to earn approximately $1.5 billion in the first quarter of the year.

Lastly, I wanted to spend a minute and talk about the framework for 2015 and cover four points. On the left, you have our segment outlook as Jeff shared in December. Overall, there is no change in that framework.

On the right side, first -- positively -- we are seeing strength in the US Healthcare market. Orders were strong, up 9%; and equipment orders were up 17%, with particular strength in imaging and Ultrasound. Orders have been on a positive trend in the US since the first quarter of 2014, and, after the final fourth-quarter results, we are more encouraged that this trend will continue into 2015.

Second is Aviation, which we feel is stronger. Spares orders grew 25% in 2014, and we are targeting high single digit growth in 2015. Revenue passenger kilometers and freight miles continue to be strong; and low Jet A should be a meaningful positive for our customers in this space.

When you think about currency, we planned 2015 assuming a stronger dollar, but we've seen some continued strengthening since the December meeting. Assuming the euro at today's rates for the entire year, foreign exchange would have a modest impact, about $0.01 a share, so very manageable in the context of the total Company.

In December, we also outlined our expectations for Oil & Gas, with a backdrop of oil at $60 to $65 a barrel. Since then, prices have fallen further.

When we planned the year, we relied on multiple scenarios, including a further fall in oil prices. Lorenzo and the team are laser focused on executing against their backlog and their costs. The team is reducing employment, executing restructuring and simplification projects to materially reduce their cost structure, all predicated on a tougher scenario.

Additionally, across the Company we expect to realize some incremental benefits in direct material and other logistical and variable costs as a result of lower fuel costs.

Oil & Gas represented about 15% of our Industrial segment earnings in 2014. We believe that, within the context of the Company portfolio, the potentially tougher Oil & Gas scenario is manageable and consistent within our framework.

With that, I'd like to pass it back over to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. We remain comfortable with our framework for 2015. We expect the Industrial EPS of between $1.10 and $1.20 behind solid organic growth and margin expansion.

Corporate costs will be substantially lower. Remember, we funded $0.11 of uncovered restructuring in 2014. In 2015, we will offset restructuring with gains.

In addition, we should have the impact from six months of Alstom. Capital results are on track, with Synchrony timing the main variable.

Free cash flow and dispositions are on track for the $12 billion to $15 billion we spoke about in the year. Again, cash return to investors depends on Synchrony timing; but it would be substantial if we do the split this year.

So, closing the year, and since the Outlook meeting, the GE world remains balanced. There are always puts and takes in the global economy. For instance, the US is quite strong, which has a positive impact in businesses like Healthcare and Aviation; and the price of oil has declined even further since December.

Our job is to manage the Company through volatility. And while we'll see the potential for risk to Oil & Gas based on current oil prices, we are aggressively working offsets through cost actions and positive opportunities elsewhere in GE.

We're also seeing stronger momentum in several of our other businesses. In total, this demonstrates the strength of our portfolio approach.

Looking back in 2014, out of eight Industrial businesses, three beat their plan, three met their plan, and two missed their plan. But together we did what we set out to do, growing core earnings by 10%.

In addition, let me give you more insight to the plan I gave you in December. We have an internal plan that is above the midpoint of the range I gave you.

The business results that deliver that plan are embedded in our teams' new incentive compensation for the year. In other words, our leaders achieve their IC when we hit an EPS that is above the midpoint of this range.

Now I want you to have transparency on how we think about the world and manage our team. Our targets encompass a thoughtful approach to the environment and a broad range of macro dynamics.

So, let me reiterate. We feel comfortable with our framework. 2015 is an important year for the Company, and we plan to deliver for you.

And now, Matt, back to you and let's take some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: All right. Thanks, Jeff. We will take your questions now.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. Thanks for the color. This is a better presentation than we've seen in a while, so thanks for that.

I know this is going to be really tough to answer, but it's going to be really important for us to try to ring-fence the Oil & Gas profit downside. Is there some sort of scenario analysis you could share with us? Or at least a sensitivity that -- hey, if we are off 35% on upstream, what kind of profit drop you'll see on that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Listen, Scott, this is Jeff. Scott, I mean, the way we've thought about it, particularly when we went through it in December with you, is we evaluated multiple scenarios including a general expectation at that point that we would be down zero to 5%. But we evaluated scenarios that were down beyond that on lower oil prices.

When we talked about the range with you of $1.70 to $1.80 in total, $1.10 to $1.20 Industrially, we included in that our view of what those downside scenarios are. So I think you've got to step back and look at it.

Oil & Gas is 15% of our segment earnings in Industrial. Being down beyond 5% I think is manageable within the context of the Industrial portfolio.

And I think importantly, Lorenzo and the team are like laser focused on driving the cost and the productivity in their business. And the programs they launched were the programs needed to support a lower downside scenario than what we even talked about in December.

So I think we feel reasonably comfortable -- as comfortable as you can be -- that, within the context of what we've shared with you, that we can manage this inside the portfolio, our Industrial portfolio.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Scott, I would add to what Jeff said. Just to say -- I think any time in our world we have multiple hedges -- you know, we have the hedge inside the Oil & Gas business driven by the cost action they are taking. We have other upside of what lower oil prices mean inside the Company.

And then there's businesses inside the Company that are doing better as we close the year. So I really -- I think we've envisioned different scenarios for Oil & Gas, and we still feel quite comfortable on the way we talk -- the way we described the Company in December.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. Because there wasn't anything additional, I don't think, that was said on the call on Alstom, and there was a bit of a price adjustment we saw in the quarter; I think it was something like $700 million or something.

Can you give us a sense -- and I know you are probably five months away from close here. But can you give us at least some sense of your confidence in the asset?

And given the new world, that the offsets -- I mean, we've got a better euro environment for Alstom; but on the other hand you've got some North Sea oil headwind. So can you give just a better sense of your confidence of the puts and takes of that transaction, and maybe a little color around the $700 million adjustment?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. Why don't I start with the adjustment, and then Jeff can give you some color on the company.

JEFF IMMELT: Great.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So, effectively what we -- there were several points within the contract that were open to negotiate post-signing. We made a couple of adjustments.

It's about EUR250 million more that we will pay at closing. Part of that was a payment we are making at our request. The legal entities we wanted to restructure and buy into, we wanted to change a bit for our benefit long-term, in terms of taxes and otherwise.

So part of that EUR250 million was a payment to ask them to close differently from a legal entity perspective than what was originally contemplated.

The second was we originally agreed to about a five-year use of the Alstom brand. We extended that in this agreement to 25 years. That was about $85 million associated with that, and then there were some other very small items.

I think you'll hear Alstom talk about EUR400 million. They're counting about $100 million of interest that they contemplated owing us on cash that they used over the course of the year. We never modeled that; we never counted that.

So we see it as about a EUR250 million adjustment to the purchase price. But we get a lot of long-term value as a result of that legal entity restructuring.

JEFF IMMELT: So I would say, Scott, always puts and takes. Their grid business is reasonably strong. I would say their renewables business is consistent with -- and also reasonably strong. I would say the power business is in a flat market, kind of the same market we see.

Clearly the euro devaluation helps the purchase price. And other than that, the puts and takes are pretty consistent with how we kind of underwrote the business going in.

Their year-end is in March, and we don't expect -- we don't really have a change in closing date. We still expect -- we still for the purposes of the plan, plan on July 1 for everything, more or less.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, great. Thanks for the detail, guys. I'll pass it back.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. So, to Jeff, you talked about a pretty limited impact from the dollar on your plan. But I'm just wondering maybe if you could just address how the strong dollar and the weak oil price could impact the broader emerging market demand for infrastructure.

I wonder: are you seeing any backlog or project deferrals as a result of that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I'd say --

JEFF IMMELT: There's multiple Jeffs here, Nigel, so you never know quite --

NIGEL COE: Yes, I don't mind who.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, we'll both answer everything. How's that?

NIGEL COE: Sounds good.

JEFF IMMELT: Go ahead, Jeff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So I'll start. You know, there's multiple dimensions to this, obviously. My comment was at about $1.15 and $1.16 we've opened up softer than that this morning. It's about $0.01 a share.

We do hedges; we're not 100% hedged. We hedge all our transactional exposure to the extent we can. We are subject to some translation, and we do very short-term hedging around earnings in a quarter.

So, there will be some volatility associated with currency. But I think my point was that in the context of the Company we are not at a point yet where we think it's something that's not manageable across our portfolio.

We do have natural hedging. We have the ability in some of our businesses to move our manufacturing base globally, which allows us to take advantage of changes in currency. And in a couple of our businesses where that matters we are actively looking at our build plan for the year to make sure we take as much advantage of that as possible.

I would say in the short run here, we've seen very little -- that I'm aware of -- very little impact on our order performance as a result of currency. That may play out more in 2015; but through fourth quarter of this year, we've seen very little of that.

JEFF IMMELT: Then I would say on the -- you had a multi -- both currency and oil price. I think if you took a tour around the world -- look, our biggest market is still the US. The US had orders up 25% in the third quarter and 18% in the fourth quarter. So I would always start by reminding people that actually the US is the best we've seen since the financial crisis.

Then, what we call rising Asia, Nigel, which is really China, India, ASEAN, stuff like that, those are actually quite positive for us right now from an order standpoint. And then the resource-rich countries I think are going to be mixed, depending on what your cost position is and things like that.

So we still, I would say, on an underlying basis see pretty good underlying demand in the Middle East; but clearly places that are marginal producers like Iraq or Venezuela or things like that, those are going to be places that we are not counting on much business in 2015. So it's kind of a mixed bag.

And then Europe for us is flattish, I would say, if you look at the organic. And if the stimulus increases European demand, that's a good thing for us.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's really helpful. Then just switching to the mix in 2015, and obviously tremendous margin expansion on services in 4Q, how does the 150 bps look between service and OE in 2015? And how does the mix shake out on the 2% to 5% between OE and service?

JEFF IMMELT: I think on the mix -- look, I think if you look at -- in the 2014 I would say product margins were flattish and service margins were up. And look, we described to you guys -- we described to our investors in December an extremely intense focus on gross margins and product cost, and so our expectation is that that delivers in 2015.

So we are looking to get some OE margin enhancement in 2015 along with continued service enhancement. Then Jeff, do you know on the revenue mix?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I would just say on the revenue mix equipment, service should be a little less impactful next year than it was in 2014. That's our plan.

I think the gross margin focus that we have going, which is particularly centered on product service cost, is driving at the OE margin (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, product and service costs, yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Product and service costs.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. Okay? Great.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, RBC Capital Markets.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you and good morning, everyone. Hey, a couple questions.

First for you, Jeff Immelt, a macro strategic question regarding balancing your framework priorities. And then I've got one for Jeff Bornstein about truing up on tax and restructuring benefits.

So, to start on the macro question, you're pretty clear you're in a volatile environment. But I'd love to get an update on how you are balancing the framework priorities.

You've got longer-term big mix changes and could be near-term disruptive to the organization; and then meanwhile you're on an EPS framework with a cadence of earnings, quarterly earnings. And I've always called it a bit like trying to change a car tire going down the highway at 55 miles an hour.

So how are you balancing these big mix changes versus earnings expectations for 2015?

JEFF IMMELT: The best way I can describe it, Deane, is since the -- I would say since 2013 inside the Company, or even longer, we've been talking about and executing around this kind of mix shift that we've described to investors. I think Jeff earlier in the presentation talked about the investments we've made in restructuring in 2014 to set us up for 2015 and beyond, which, again, everybody in the leadership team is on.

So the way I would look at this, Deane, is on the Industrial side I think the teams -- their world is in front of them, their incentives are in line, they know exactly what they need to do. We've got Alstom coming in; Appliances going out.

And that is -- that team is laser-like focus between Dave Joyce and Lorenzo and Steve Bolze, and those guys know exactly what they need to do in this environment.

On a GE Capital side, look, we're just going to make it smaller if we can as time goes on. We're going to execute on Synchrony, and that's what the Capital team is doing.

So I think you've got to look at it in terms of every team knows exactly their piece of how we need to execute here. There is absolutely no confusion on the Industrial side. And Financial Services, we're just going to look for opportunities to continue to make it smaller.

We talked about 75/25 as a goal, but we really run the place with that as an output function, not an input function. Right? We run the place to execute well on our businesses, and we think 75/25 is the output.

DEANE DRAY: Got it. Then for Jeff Bornstein, maybe you can true us up on the tax outlook for 2015 and restructuring benefits that should carry in, and anything unique about the first-quarter tax.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Sure. On tax, Industrial tax we think is going to be -- the core rate will be what it has been, which is kind of high teens. We will do the Appliance transaction; that will be a high tax transaction, which will bump the rate up to low 20%s for next year.

And I think that's consistent with what we've communicated. The trend will probably be higher in the early part of the year, lower in the later part of the year on Industrial tax.

On restructuring, same discussion. We're going to do restructuring next year. It's critical to delivering on everything we've talked about.

We've assumed the gains. The Appliance and signaling transaction will happen midyear. We will do restructuring in the first half of the year before those gains manifest themselves, but we still believe that for the total year our restructuring and gains and to some degree the impact on mortality are all going to offset. We are not going to be doing, today anyway, naked restructuring.

DEANE DRAY: What's the carry forward of restructuring benefits in 2015 from actions in 2014?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: What we've gotten in our makeup, in our cost roll, is about $500 million. We will get in incremental benefit for new restructuring we do in 2015. As you know, we'll get partially it depending on where we execute those projects.

But the carry through from, I would say, both 2013 and 2014 is about $500 million for 2015.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks and good morning. Hey, could you just give us a better sense of the detail around the gains that happened within GE Capital in the quarter? Just the major gains including -- as well as the Real Estate side, but across the whole business. And did the Norges thing come through all that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so I'll start with Norges. We did close Norges. The impact in the quarter was just over $300 million.

The headline impact in the segment reporting in retail was the full $600 million. And that's partly because we did the tax accounting earlier in the year that recognized the tax benefits for about half the gain. We reversed that in the fourth quarter, and the full effect of the disposition took place in the fourth quarter in the retail segment.

So within the fourth quarter about $300 million; $600 million for the year. In addition, I talked about -- we sold the nonperforming loan portfolio in our UK home lending business for about $0.5 billion; had a very small gain associated with it, about $20 million, but a big deal for our UK portfolio.

I talked about $2.1 billion of Real Estate sales in the quarter led by Japan multifamily that we sold. That specifically was about $229 million.

I think total Real Estate gains for the quarter were closer to $330 million. And that made the bulk of what GE Capital gains were in the quarter.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Then just maybe pausing on the order price profile for the quarter and the trend line in some of these. I know we've talked about Oil & Gas a little bit; it was down 20 basis points. And Power & Water down 70.

Are you seeing pressure in the existing backlog at all in terms of any kind of renegotiation activity happening?

And also, currency: are you also feeling any pressure? We talked about currency a little bit, but are you feeling any pressure to use pricing to make up for any of the segments, whether it's Power, Healthcare, or Lighting, where you might have broader international competition? Any of that coming through?

And then Healthcare I guess as part of that same thing, which is -- I know this is the business model, to be down every quarter and take costs down by more. But that can't be a good thing for too long. So maybe some thoughts on that too.

JEFF IMMELT: So, you know, Steve, here's what I would say. I would say most of the pricing impact that we see in the fourth quarter is more mix driven than anything else. For instance, in Power you've got most of the heavy-duty gas turbine action is in the H; that really is not in the base yet, but those are higher-price, bigger units. You get a little bit more competitiveness on aeros, but not a lot to talk about.

Oil & Gas, we really haven't seen it yet. Nor have we seen -- there's some initial letters and stuff like that on pricing, but no real action.

I think that's all -- again, I don't think we've seen it in the fourth quarter. We haven't seen it yet.

But this is early days, so I'm -- I think there's going to be -- there's certainly going to be chatter out there. So I don't really take all the stuff that's happened necessarily in the fourth quarter as what's going to happen throughout the rest of 2015. I think we just have to be ready on all fronts.

And I would say no conversation at all around currency and anything along that yet. We'll see how that plays out.

In terms of Healthcare, look, I think you're right. This has been the historical business model.

But I also think what we're doing, Steve, with Jeff and Jamie and Dan Heintzelman is we are ripping apart the critical [X's] and gross margins across each one of these businesses. I think in Healthcare managing the pricing is going to be a key part of how we get enhanced gross margin improvement in that specific business.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, thanks, guys. I'll pass it on.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning. Just to make one thing clear, what were the impairments in the fourth quarter? Total gains of $650 million in GE Capital; what were the impairments?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Hold on one sec; I'll get it for you. What's your next question, Steve? And I'll run that down.

STEVE TUSA: My next question would be another detail question. Lufkin specifically in artificial lift, we've seen some varying reports on inventory destocking. I think PCP yesterday talked about their oil and gas business, implied down like 50% to 60% in some of their -- on a quarterly run rate basis, showed some destocking.

Did you guys see destocking in your artificial lift business, the Lufkin business?

JEFF IMMELT: Not yet, Steve. Look, when you look at -- like, revenues in the quarter were up mid single digits in Lufkin. Orders were down mid single digits, so not enough to read into.

Again, a lot of this I think in Oil & Gas has yet to play out. But I would say the fourth quarter was pretty much inside of our expectations for Lufkin.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. Then just one last question, just on cash. Jeff, just philosophically around the dividend, you guys are bumping up against an 80%-ish type of payout ratio on the free cash when it comes to the dividend. I mean, there is a pretty significant -- it's a big dividend relative to your free cash flow.

Is that dividend viewed -- I mean, is there a fine line here? Given obviously the location of cash makes it a little bit complicated as far as moving things around and being able to pay that. Would you -- is there a fine line as a percentage of free cash flow that you don't mind going over Industrial free cash flow and paying the dividend?

I mean is it -- and as far as growth, do you view the dividend, it's a must-grow over time? I'm just trying to get my hands around how much you defend that dividend.

JEFF IMMELT: You've got $16 billion of cash on the balance sheet right now. We are going to do Alstom this year. You're still sitting on top of substantial excess cash in GE Capital.

Look, I view the dividend as being key. We have capital allocation choices we make. We're going to continue to grow our free cash flow as time goes on, and we're comfortable with where we are right now.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I'd say, listen, we've been running at slightly above a 50% payout ratio. I think long term we expect to be slightly less or to about 50% payout ratio.

So as we work through the pivot through 2016, we made a conscious decision that we were going to run a little hotter to our target payout ratio. But the dividend, as Jeff said, is certainly a priority for us and very important to our retail base.

JEFF IMMELT: I would add, Steve, just one -- just something that I just want to make sure people don't forget. And that is, look, the Synchrony transaction is effectively going to be a $20 billion buyback whenever we execute that.

So that's another big capital allocation choice that's just going to be executed in a lump, in a different way. But that's quite meaningful to our investors as well.

STEVE TUSA: Sure. And the impairments?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, the impairments. As you would expect, impairments year-over-year were down substantially, about $550 million. You recall in the fourth quarter of last year in CLL we took the Momentive charge; and we took a little -- we took a second charge on business aircraft. And then the big item in the fourth quarter of last year was the GECAS aircraft impairment.

So year-over-year, impairments were better by $550 million pretax. In the quarter, we really didn't have a lot of big impairments. We had one big impairment on a Real Estate property domestically, for just under $100 million pretax; and that was really about it of consequence.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Hi, thank you, gentlemen. Good morning. Hey, just a couple quick ones. I know we are running tight on time.

Could you just reconcile the comment on Lufkin orders down mid single digit versus Drilling orders down 72%? I know, obviously, there is a little bit more; but that's a little bit of difference there. But that sounds like a fairly sizable disconnect.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. Look, it's -- I'm just looking at fourth-quarter orders, Jeff. Go ahead.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We report Lufkin separately from Drilling and Surface. Drilling and Surface orders were up 4% in the quarter, so antithetical to what you would expect in this environment. And Lufkin was down 6% in the quarter.

So I would say generally, as I went through the script, if you went through the orders for Oil & Gas in the quarter, they are not necessarily what you would expect in this environment. The things you would think would be stronger, including Downstream and the Surface-related stuff --

JEFF IMMELT: Turbomachinery.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: -- Turbomachinery, were good to slightly down. And the things you would think would be most impacted -- the upstream stuff was a little stronger in the quarter year-over-year.

So I think we're way too early. You're not yet seeing an impact on behavior with our customer in the current order rates. That's to come in 2015.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. You did say Drilling down 72% though, right?

JEFF IMMELT: No.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Drilling was down, Surface was up.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So Drilling BOPs were definitely down substantially, but Surface was up. We report it as one group, Drilling and Surface.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. And I know the H price is not in the index, but can you give some color on how that's pricing versus expectation?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, it's not in the index. I would say, without giving away any real competitive information, I would say sequentially pricing is improving order to order.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. Then just one really quick one on FX. Is the $0.01 headwind or so that you are talking about for 2015 now incremental to what you were thinking previously? The reason I ask is you had $0.02 in Q -- in --?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Jeff. What I was trying to say was, when we did the framework in December, if you look at that versus -- I did that math at $1.15, $1.16. The move from December to $1.15 to $1.16 for us meant that we were working with a $0.01 headwind that we would figure out.

JEFF IMMELT: But again, I would come back to -- there's other mitigants to a lot of this stuff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. And we'll --

JEFF IMMELT: As you look through the system. We're just trying to give you guys --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I'm not changing guidance in any way. I'm not changing --

JEFF IMMELT: We're trying to give you guys the pieces, because I think that's -- we want you to know how we think about it. But there is a lot of other things inside the Company that we use to offset it, just like we did in Q4.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Right.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Hey, just a question, two questions. The first: part of the reason for creating Oil & Gas was actually to deliver to national oil companies in an environment like this. Could you share some of the conversations that you are having with these customers?

How are you guys positioning versus the competition? And are you seeing that your structure is actually making a difference? From the outside, how do we know that it does make a difference?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, look, I would say again, there is not one size fits all. But I think clearly the national oil companies look differently at this cycle than some of the integrated oil companies do. So I would just say in the case of a company like Saudi Aramco, they are going to continue to produce and there's a number of strategies that are associated with that.

Similarly, to a company like Petronas and things like that. And then there's other places that are in more stress.

So, look, I would just echo back, Andrew, to a comment I made in December. We like the Oil & Gas business; we like how we are positioned in it; and we think these cycles give us an opportunity to pick up market position similar to what we did in the Aviation business, in the Power business, and other businesses.

But short of going through private conversations with customers, I can just say that we still think with a lot of the NOCs, or a certain segment of the NOCs, there is still potentially going to be some good business to be done in 2015.

ANDREW OBIN: Just to follow up, what's the latest strategic thinking on Energy Management and the progress that they are making?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think we're in a pretty good strategic position. This is a business where Alstom adds some competitive capability and scale.

Our pathway has to be one that gets us to margins that are more competitive with the ABBs and the other players in this industry and that's -- and we can accept nothing less. So I think the way I look at it right now, Andrew, we're in it to win.

We expect margin accretion and earnings growth year after year in this business. And here's one where the ceiling is very high in terms of what we should be able to do in this business.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, UBS.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. Hey, maybe first for Jeff Bornstein. When you think about driving this swing from down 80 bps gross margin this year to up 50, how do you see that phasing through 2015 numerically? And also where are you and Dan and Jamie at in terms of what you're doing to drive that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Right now, Shannon, we're doing very deep dives with each business. Basically -- I hate to get too tactical, but basically we are starting with the outcome and building back the project decks from there.

So on every element of product and service cost, direct material, inflation, deflation, direct material usage, warranties, scrap, operating cost per hour of our different facilities, every -- labor, etc., building the project decks that support delivering at each of the segment levels their share of gross margin improvement at the segment level.

And that's where we are today. Jamie, in parallel with that, is continuing to drive and support the businesses with ERP, which is a big part of giving them visibility and driving our ability to consolidate, etc.

So we are in the process right now of building very detailed action-oriented plans that have every dollar of cost between sales and the gross margin line owned by somebody with a plan. So that's where we are today.

I would say this is going to accelerate throughout the year. We're early in the process now.

But I'm quite confident if we get at it the way we have programmatically around SG&A, I think we can make a big difference here. And I think there's a lot of opportunity, as Jeff said earlier, particularly around original equipment margins.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, that's great; really helpful. Then in terms of just the US Healthcare strength, can you give us a little more color there?

What are you hearing from customers? And where do you really think that market is and decision-making is at this point?

JEFF IMMELT: Shannon, the only two data points I can give you is just what we saw, which was pretty good -- we don't have the market data yet, so we don't know share and things like that, but we had good products and good activity. And we've got to believe that we gained a little bit of share.

Then just I would say the other data point I could give you is conversational. Which is, as I see hospital CEOs when I travel the circuit, you just get a lot more positive in terms of their ability to know what the next few years are going to be like, to do their planning, to do their growth plans and things like that. And that didn't exist, let's say 24 months ago.

So we're guardedly optimistic. But it's too early to call it a trend, I would say.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks. Just on the Healthcare business, you talked about how the Q4 performance was something of a blip. But I guess the profit drivers down, price and FX probably persist through the whole of this year. So maybe talk a little bit about why you're so confident that Healthcare earnings are going to rebound.

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I would say, Julian, on the comment you made, this is -- as Jeff went through this, his presentation of stuff, there's always going to be concern about FX and stuff like that in this business. Nonetheless, the US is just a big powerful driver of Healthcare profitability, mix, things like that. So when I look at 2015 that, in addition to momentum we've got in Life Sciences and stuff like that, I think that offsets all the other, let's say, headwinds we might see in terms of FX and otherwise.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Julian, I'd just add, I didn't -- if you took it that way, I apologize. I didn't mean to describe the Healthcare performance as a blip. What I meant to say was organically the performance was better than headline, when you think about the impacts of FX.

And I completely agree with Jeff. The developed markets feel like they are getting stronger for Healthcare. We're going to have challenges in some -- Russia and some of the emerging markets.

But the bulk of our -- percentagewise, the US is still the biggest single market we have in Healthcare. And we feel much better about the strength there than we have in the past.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. Then just the gross margin up by 50 bps. What are you including for price or for value gap in there? Because I guess value gap was a decent tailwind in 2014. Do you think it's flattish this year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I think in our working construct for the year, we expect value gap to be roughly what it was this year. We ended this year at about $300 million net value gap -- $300 million value gap, and our expectation is that that will likely be what 2015 looks like.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Mr. Cribbins, do you have any additional remarks?

MATT CRIBBINS: Yes, thank you. Before wrapping up, just a couple of quick announcements. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website.

We will be distributing our quarterly supplement for GE Capital later today. On Friday, April 17, we will hold our first-quarter 2015 earnings webcast.

JEFF IMMELT: Great. You know, Matt, I just want to reiterate as we close: the framework we've got for 2015 really has a ton of strength and thoughtfulness in it, in terms of the scenarios that we are seeing globally. So I would just echo that and just reiterate. We talked about the new compensation plan that the leaders have inside the Company. That really has each and every business aligned to deliver in a very effective way for our investors as we go forward, Matt. So I would just make those two points in closing.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thank you. As always, we'll be available later today for questions.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150125eb1n0020b
  


 HD
 Q3  2014  General Electric  Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,789 words
   PD
17 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) my name is Vivienne and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, thank you. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's third-quarter webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release, presentation, and GE Supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.GE.com/investor. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein; and our Vice President GE Healthcare Life Sciences, Kieran Murphy. We have asked Kieran to join to talk about our Life Sciences business.

Now with that, I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt. We continue to plan against a global macro backdrop that is volatile and one where some economic projections have recently been revised downward. That said, we are seeing solid pockets of underlying growth in many of our markets.

The good news for us is that we planned for a volatile environment; our businesses are executing well; and we are tracking to our expectations for the year. As a result, we had a good quarter.

EPS was $0.38, an increase of 6% versus last year. Our Industrial segment profits grew by 9%.

Our relative position in key markets is improving. We have gained share in Transportation, Aviation, Power, and Healthcare.

We had great new products. Orders grew by 22%. For the first time in a while, we are seeing volume improving for GE Capital in the US.

GE grew margins by 90 basis points. We continue to generate benefits from our simplification efforts and are on track for more than $1 billion of cost-out for the year. Margins improved in six of seven businesses, and our cost-out momentum is strong.

We remain on track for CFOA for the year, so we are running the Company well. And we are executing on our portfolio strategy.

We launched the Synchrony IPO in July, and as we move forward this will dramatically reduce the size of GE Capital and our presence in consumer finance. And we have invested in platforms like Milestone Aviation, a helicopter leasing business linked to GE Aviation. So we are on track to create a smaller GE Capital focused on commercial finance.

At the same time, we announced the sale of Appliances, a legacy GE business. The Synchrony spin, Appliances sale, and Alstom acquisition from the second quarter are all a part of repositioning GE to be the world's best infrastructure and technology company, with a smaller financial services division. This is a more valuable GE, with 75% of our earnings from Industrial by 2016.

We are winning in the market. Orders were robust in the quarter, growing 22%; and this was driven by 31% equipment orders growth and 10% growth in services. Orders pricing was positive in the third quarter.

Technology drives high-margin share, and we took orders for more than 1,000 Tier 4-compliant locomotives in the quarter and are ahead of the competition. Aviation continues to enjoy great success with LEAP wins, GEnx share growth, and the GE9X launch orders.

For the first time in a while, Power & Water equipment orders grew in the United States, up 41%. We now have 13 H turbines in backlog.

And we are enjoying good success in Oil & Gas, with Subsea orders growing by 63% and the launch of the 20K blowout preventer.

NPIs are helping Healthcare to grow in the United States, and new innovations are helping LEDs to grow orders by 60% and Power Conversion by 30%.

Service orders grew by 10%, with growth in five of six businesses. Aviation commercial spares were up 29%, and Power Gen Services grew by 10% despite some sluggish end-use markets.

Last week we announced new analytical applications and that our Predictivity solution revenues will exceed $1 billion in 2014.

Orders growth was broad-based geographically. US orders were strong, with growth of 25%; and growth markets expanded by 34%, with five of nine regions up in the quarter.

These include China, up 26%. Orders in the Middle East, North Africa, and Turkey doubled. Latin America was up 54%; Africa up 9%; and Canada up 46%.

Backlog is a record high of $250 billion, up more than $20 billion in the past 12 months. We had a service backlog true-up in Aviation driven by finalization of terms with CFM for LEAP, which reduced the total by $2 billion; nonetheless, we're at record highs. Strong orders position GE for sustained growth in the fourth quarter and beyond.

Segment profits grew by 9%, with six of seven segments expanding. Year-to-date segment profit is up 10%, driven by 5% organic revenue growth and 50 basis points of margin expansion. Organic growth was up 4% in the quarter and 5% year to date.

Aviation and Transportation remain very strong, with equipment growth of more than 10%. Oil & Gas organic growth was up 10%.

We saw a strong US environment in Healthcare. Power & Water had tough comps in the third quarter, but will have very strong fourth-quarter shipments versus last year.

For the year, our Industrial organic growth should be at the high end of our framework.

We had another strong quarter on margins at 16.3%, up 90 basis points. Big drivers continue to be value gap, productivity, and simplification, and we expect this to continue.

Year-to-date margins are up 50 basis points, and service margins have grown by 170 basis points year to date. With service orders growing by 10% and strong margin expansion, we are seeing some of the early signs that our investment in analytics are paying off.

We remain on track to grow Industrial segment profits by 10%, at least, this year.

We have generated $7.2 billion of CFOA year to date and are on track for $14 billion to $17 billion for the year. For the quarter, we grew CFOA by 41%.

GE Capital dividends are on track for $3 billion in the year. We will generate substantial CFOA in the fourth quarter, driven by much higher Industrial earnings and stronger shipments than last year.

We continue to have strong liquidity and balance sheet strength. GE Capital Tier 1 ratio was 12.1%, up 80 basis points; and we are targeting buyback and dividends of more than $11 billion for the year.

In addition, we expect the Synchrony split to take GE shares below $9.5 billion by the end of 2015. Our capital allocation continues to be disciplined and balanced.

Now let me turn you over to Kieran Murphy, who is the leader of our global Life Sciences business. This is a strong GE franchise with expanding organic growth, margins, and cash flow.

Kieran joined GE in 2008 and has 25 years of experience in the Life Sciences industry.

KIERAN MURPHY, PRESIDENT & CEO GE HEALTHCARE LIFE SCIENCES, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning and thanks for giving me the opportunity to tell you more about Life Sciences, a $3.7 billion business within GE Healthcare. The healthcare industry is moving towards a more precise diagnosis with more precise treatment, to address an annual waste of $350 billion, since most -- around 90% -- of currently marketed drugs only work for about 40% of people. Precision medicine would improve patient outcomes and reduce healthcare costs, and this is driving the demand for biologics as opposed to chemical medicines, improving efficacy, and reducing side effects.

We are an essential component of drug manufacture for this industry. Our presence in Life Sciences extends from the research lab, where we help in the discovery of new medicines, to the manufacturing plants, where we deliver capacity and productivity, and then all the way through to supporting clinicians who use our diagnostic agents to make refined diagnoses for tens of millions of patients around the world every year.

The expansion of biological medicines for the treatment of diabetes, cancer, rheumatoid arthritis, and other diseases drives demand for GE products and services, which are embedded in biopharmaceutical drugs. Today, these drugs make up six of the top 10 revenue-generating medicines.

Also, in the emerging markets, particularly China, there is a growing market need for generic bio drugs, called biosimilars. This has the potential to be a significant growth opportunity over the next 5 to 10 years.

And the next evolution of medicine, regenerative medicine, which is based on regenerating cells, tissues, and organs in the body, is an area where GE is investing for the future. All of this adds up to a market growing at around 8% per year.

We have a broad portfolio of products, which are split into two main areas: bioprocessing and research, serving academic and pharmaceutical customers; and diagnostics, aimed primarily at clinicians.

For biopharma manufacturing, we have a leading global franchise built on a portfolio products we acquired with the Amersham acquisition in 2004, and we have continued to build value through successful R&D investments and a series of strategic deals, resulting in a comprehensive offering that enables start-to-finish solutions for production. This start-to-finish solution creates productivity opportunities for our customers, and I will return to that later.

Our research and applied markets business has a series of strong brands for protein characterization, purification, and analysis, critical to the discovery of these new medicines. Once selected, these consumables remain embedded in the scaleup of the drug, all the way to an FDA-approved manufacturing process. Within the diagnostics business, we are the global leader in contrast agents used across the spectrum of diagnostic imaging, including x-ray, MRI, and nuclear medicine. We supply customers through a global network of large-scale, low-cost manufacturing facilities.

With novel in-vitro technologies developed at the GRC, we have expanded our service offering to allow researchers to better understand the underlying biology of disease, which of course in turn leads to the development of these new precision medicines, which we then help to manufacture.

And that brings me onto how critical we are to the biopharmaceutical manufacturing industry. Over the past 6 years, biological medicine sales have grown at 10% per annum to $170 billion, due primarily to expansion of monoclonal antibodies for the treatment of cancer and increasing demand for products like insulin. Our hardware and consumables are embedded in the FDA-approved manufacturing processes of these products.

This manufacture of biologics is completely different to the industrial process for making traditional chemical-based medicines. It requires cells to grow, to produce specific proteins, which are then extracted and purified.

This is an $8 billion market where we have built a leading position, all starting from the Pharmacia chromatography platform, which was part of our mission. We continue to build on this product and service platform organically as well as through deals, moving upstream with a series of acquisitions, such as WAVE and Xcellerex, which added fermenters and disposable technologies to the portfolio, and recently HyClone cell media, part of the billion-dollar acquisition from Thermo Fisher. This creates the start-to-finish solution I referred to earlier.

We enjoy close strategic partnerships with the leading pharmaceutical companies, who depend on us for reliable, high-quality supply. The move to biological medicines that has driven double-digit growth over the past few years will continue, as expansion in Asia creates new demand for manufacturing capacity.

We are uniquely positioned to help in this expansion, both for global pharma companies wanting to localize production in new markets and for local manufacturers wanting to establish domestic production of crucial medicines. We effectively partner to deliver our factory-in-a-box solutions.

Our FlexFactory and [QBL] solutions can provide a complete factory in less than half the time required for a traditional plant -- 46 months to less than 18 -- and at a fraction of the cost. Essentially, we provide a faster and more cost-effective way of creating capacity and access to the emerging markets.

Lastly, we are investing in the cell therapy or regenerative medicine space. An example of this would be the creation of cells, for example, to reverse diabetes.

The bottleneck right now in this industry is to move from research, or small-scale, to industrial-scale production. And this is an area where we can bring our bioprocessing tools and expertise to enable this revolutionary change in medicine. It is an emerging market where we have low revenues today, but we see it as having the potential to create a billion-dollar business in the future.

In summary, the Life Sciences business is a high-margin, high-quality growth business within GE. We are a trusted supplier to the pharmaceutical industry for biopharmaceutical research and manufacturing.

GE Healthcare's deep relationships with hospitals provide greater access for sales growth in diagnostic and research products. We leverage GE's great strength in research and analytics from the Global Research Center and our software center in San Ramon. We use the Global Operations and commercial teams across the world to sell into emerging markets.

This is a business where in 2014 we are delivering strong growth, especially in bioprocessing, with margins expanding by 100 basis points through business integration and organization simplification. And we are generating in excess of $1 billion free cash flow. Overall, the deal return for this business is in the low teens.

This is a growing and valuable business within GE, and we continue to see a healthy pipeline and have great confidence in the future growth of the business. And now I would like to hand over to Jeff Bornstein.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Kieran. I will start with the third-quarter summary. We had revenues of $36.2 billion, up 1% from the third quarter of 2013. Industrial sales of $26 billion were up 3%, and GE Capital revenues of $10.5 billion were down 1%.

Operating earnings of $3.8 billion were up 3% in the quarter. Operatings per share of $0.38 were up 6%.

Continuing EPS of $0.34 includes the impact of nonoperating pension; and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations. We had a small benefit in discontinued operations this quarter associated with truing up taxes on the Grey Zone payment.

As Jeff said, CFOA year-to-date was $7.2 billion. We had Industrial CFOA of $5 billion and received $2.2 billion of dividends from GE Capital.

In the quarter, Industrial generated $3 billion of CFOA, up $900 million versus the third quarter of 2013. For the year, we are on track to deliver on the $14 billion to $17 billion framework we provided.

The GE tax rate for the quarter was 18%. That brings the year-to-date rate for the Company -- for the Industrial Company to 20%.

We expect the total-year rate to be in the high teens. The GE Capital tax rate was 3% for the quarter, and that was consistent with the low single-digit total-year rate that we previously communicated.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial segment revenues were up 3% reported, up 4% organically. Industrial segment operating profit was up 9%, and GE Capital earnings were down 22% on lower assets, the Synchrony minority interest impact, and lower tax benefits.

I will cover the dynamics of each of the segments in the next couple of pages. First, I will start with other items for the quarter.

We had $0.03 of restructuring and other charges at Corporate. $0.02 of that related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items, as we continue to take actions to improve the Industrial cost structure.

We also had a $0.01 charge related to the announced Appliances disposition. We moved the business to held-for-sale and recognized prior service costs related to pension and retiree health for Appliance employees. On a pretax basis, that was $113 million of the total $435 million restructuring and other charges we incurred in the quarter.

I want to give an update on the Industrial cost dynamics. On the left side you can see our restructuring and gains profile. For the year, we expect to invest about $1.4 billion in restructuring and other charges, with about $1.2 billion incurred through the first three quarters of the year.

We had gains this year of about $0.01 from the Wayne disposition. So for the year we are expecting restructuring net gains to be about $0.09.

We like the paybacks and the operating leverage that we are getting from these projects. The average payback is about a year and a half. Approximately 55% of these projects relate to product and operating costs, and the rest is associated with SG&A.

On the right side I will give you a quick update on two important cost-out commitments. First, on structural SG&A we have taken out $674 million year-to-date on our way to over $1 billion for the year.

As a result of these actions, Industrial SG&A as a percent of sales has come down steadily. Year-to-date we are down 1.6 points versus 2013. We expect to be about 14% for the year, driven by an additional $300 million-plus of cost-out in the fourth quarter and strong volume.

In Corporate, we have taken actions to reduce our operating costs as well. Year-to-date we have taken out $436 million through simplification efforts at corporate headquarters, GGO, and reductions in our social costs. For the year, we expect to deliver more than the $500 million target we established at the start of the year.

As Jeff said, Industrial segment op profit is up 10% year-to-date. When you look at Industrial including Corporate, operating profit was up 17% year-to-date, 19% in the quarter. This excludes the investments we have made in restructuring, net of gains and the NBCU income we had in 2013.

I will start with the segment summaries. First, Power & Water.

Orders in the quarter of $6.4 billion were higher by 9%. Equipment orders were up 8% driven by strong Renewables, up 42%; partially offset by Distributed Power, down 32% and Thermal down 8%.

Renewables saw strength in Europe, Latin America, and the US, despite the later than expected IRS clarification on PTC eligibility. Distributed Power continues to see projects push.

We booked about 30% of the units that pushed from the second quarter, but saw some projects pushed to the fourth quarter in 2015. We believe all these projects are viable, but are located in tougher regions like Egypt, Libya, Angola, and Kazakhstan.

Thermal orders were down on four lower gas turbines, but higher on a gigawatt basis, driven by the large H-class order in the US from Exelon. This brings our total H units in backlog to 13. We now expect total-year gas turbine unit orders to be about 105 to 110 versus 125, driven by disruption in the Middle East, and some US customers are shifting from F-class to H-class technology. This shift has required some of our customers to re-permit their sites and has delayed some orders.

Service orders in the quarter were up 10%. We had strong orders for upgrades in transactional outage volume, as discussed in the second-quarter call. AGPs in the quarter were 18 versus 15 a year ago.

Revenue of $6.4 billion in the quarter was down 2%, with equipment down 8% and services up 6%. Equipment revenue was driven by Distributed Power, down 35% on 24 fewer units versus last year, partially offset by strong Renewables, up 18%.

Revenue was a little lower than expected. Wind units were 150 less than planned, driven by late IRS guidance; but we still expect to ship about 3,000 units for the year.

Distributed Power was also lower by about 10 units as projects were delayed. On gas turbine units, we have shipped 64 units year-to-date and now expect to ship about 105 in the year versus the 85 to 90 we planned.

Service revenues in the quarter of 2.9 billion were up 6% on higher AGPs and upgrades.

From an operating profit perspective, we were just shy of $1.2 billion. It was down 8%, driven by negative price and mix from higher Wind and lower Distributed Power, which more than offset cost benefits, including SG&A, which was down 10%. Margins were down 110 basis points in the quarter.

For the fourth quarter, we expect strong double-digit revenue growth on higher gas turbine shipments, up about 40%, and higher wind turbines, up about 30%, bringing the total year's shipments to about 105 on gas turbines and about 3,000 wind turbines, which is within the original framework. As we discussed on the second-quarter call, we still expect total-year AGPs to be higher and Distributed Power units to be lower, impacted by the delays we discussed previously.

In Oil & Gas, orders at $4.9 billion were up 10%. Equipment orders were up 14%, up 20% organically, excluding the impact of the Wayne disposition.

We had strength in Subsea, up 84%, with strong Brazilian orders; Downstream Technology up 64%, driven by demand in small-scale LNG, partially offset by D&S, which was down 12% in the quarter.

Service orders were up 6% with strength in Subsea, up 27%, and Turbomachinery up 8%, partially offset by M&C, which was down 8%. Organically, M&C was up 7%, with demand for control solutions improving in both Industrial and Oil & Gas applications.

Revenues of $4.6 billion grew 7% year-over-year, with equipment revenue higher by 9% and services up 4%. Operating profit of $660 million was up 27% on strong cost performance, project execution, and a positive value gap, offset by lower M&C mix. Margin rates expanded in the quarter 240 basis points.

Our outlook for the year remains intact for the business, with double-digit op profit growth. However, we are moderating our view of orders growth from high single-digits to low double-digit to mid single-digits.

We expect orders to grow in the fourth quarter. As you know, orders in this space are very volatile, and we continue to see some big projects pushed to the right.

Next I will do Aviation and Healthcare, starting with Aviation. Travel demand continues to grow, with RPKs August year-to-date up 5.1% domestically and up 6.3% internationally.

Orders for Aviation were very strong in the quarter, up 30%, with equipment orders up 35% to $6.8 billion, and services higher by 20%. Equipment strength was led by $3.8 billion of GE9X orders for Emirates, Etihad, and Lufthansa.

We also won $1.3 billion of CFM LEAP orders, bringing our program to-date win rate on the next-gen narrowbodies to 78%. Military equipment orders were down 40%, but up 3% year-to-date, and are on track to be flat for the year.

Service orders were driven by strong commercial spears, up 29% to $30.9 million a day, partially offset by military spares weakness. Revenues in the quarters of $5.7 billion were up 6%, driven by commercial equipment revenue, up 22%; military, up 8%; and services down 1%. Commercial spares were up 19%, offset by military services, down 17%.

Leverage in the operating profit was strong with 16% growth on better price performance and volume, partly offset by higher GEnx shipments, with 65 units in the quarter, up 39 from the third quarter of 2013. SG&A ex-Avio was down 4% in the quarter, and margins expanded 190 basis points.

Overall, David and the Aviation team delivered a strong quarter. We expect the Aviation business to continue to expand its technology leadership. GEnx shipments will be higher in the fourth quarter, and we still expect to ship about 300 units for the year.

In Healthcare, orders were up 1% with better growth in the US, which was up 3%. Europe was up 4% and Latin America was up 18%. This was offset by Japan, down 12%, and the Middle East, down 15% in the quarter.

Equipment orders of $2.7 billion were flat on lower Japan and Middle East orders. Our US equipment orders were up 4%, driven by very strong Imaging and Ultrasound orders, which were up 10%. We believe the US market was up as well, but more modestly.

China HCS equipment orders were up 6% in the third quarter, and they are up 11% year-to-date. China growth was slower, driven by tender decision delays in public hospitals.

In Kieran's business, Life Sciences, equipment orders were strong, up 15%. And service orders for Healthcare in total were up 4%.

Revenues in the quarter were up 4%, with developed markets up 2% and emerging markets up 11%, including: China, up 8%; Latin America, up 30%; and the Middle East, up 16%. Op profit grew 9%, driven by volume and strong cost productivity, offset by negative price. SG&A was down 5% in the quarter.

Looking forward, we expect the US to remain volatile, but our products are performing well. Our position in China is very strong, and we believe underlying healthcare demand remains strong in the long run, with an aging population, increasing insurance coverage, and continued government spend in healthcare.

As you heard today, we have a very exciting Life Sciences business with a unique position. Simplification will continue to transform our cost structure in this business.

Next is Transportation, which had a very strong quarter. Orders in the quarter were up 134%, led by equipment orders, up 3 times or $2.1 billion.

The business took orders for more than 1,000 Tier 4-compliant locomotives to be delivered over the next 3 years. Locomotive loading is nearing current capacity levels for 2015. Carloads continue to be strong, led by agriculture, petroleum, and intermodal; and network velocity continues to be a challenge.

Mining equipment orders remain weak, down 38%. Transportation service orders were up 8% in the quarter.

Revenues were up 10%, driven by locomotive volume, with units up 49%, partially offset by services down 3% on mining weakness. Operating profit was higher by 12%, driven by local volume and cost productivity; and SG&A was down 5%. That allowed margins to improve 40 basis points in the quarter.

We are very pleased with the team's execution on the Tier 4 loco and expect to continue to fill out our order book for 2016 and 2017, and we feel great about our ability to execute against this orders growth.

Energy Management, the business continues to improve. Our orders in the quarter were down 1%, with Digital Energy down 25% and Industrial Solutions down 7% on weak European demand, and the impact of exiting certain markets and products as part of restructuring.

Power Conversion was strong, up 30% in the quarter, driven by Marine. Backlog grew 9%.

Revenues of $1.8 billion were down 1%. Op profit of $59 million was up 3 times on strong cost and restructuring execution.

And then Appliances & Lighting. The core industry within Appliances was up 9% in the third quarter; retail was up 9% and contract up 7%. Revenue in the quarter was up 1% to $2.1 billion, with Appliances up 2% and Lighting down 2%.

Appliances revenue was driven by volume, up 3%, while strong LED growth of 59% in Lighting was more than offset by traditional product declines. Operating profit of $88 million was higher by 14% on strong productivity. SG&A was down 11%, and margins expanded 50 basis points.

As we announced in early September, we reached an agreement with Electrolux to sell our Appliance business. We hope to close that transaction in mid-2015.

Next I will cover GE Capital. As you know, we successfully completed the IPO of 15% of our North American Retail Finance business, now known as Synchrony Financial. As a publicly traded company, CEO Margaret Keane and the team will host their own investor call later this morning.

We continue to make progress on separation efforts and expect the split-off to take place towards the end of 2015, subject to regulatory approval. In the meantime, Synchrony will remain consolidated in GE Capital financials.

GE Capital's revenue of $10.5 billion was down 1%, primarily from lower assets, partially offset by higher gains. GE Capital's net income of $1.5 billion was down 22%, principally driven by lower assets, which includes minority interest impact resulting from the Synchrony IPO and lower tax benefits. Earnings were also affected by the timing of our Nordics consumer platform exit, which as previously announced moved from the third to the fourth quarter.

ENI of $365 billion was down $19 billion or 5% from last year, and down $7 billion sequentially. Nonstrategic ENI was down $11 billion or 8% versus last year.

Net interest margin in the quarter was 5%, which is essentially flat. GE Capital's Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel 1 basis remains in a strong position and ended the quarter at 12.1%. This is up 40 basis points sequentially and 79 basis points year-over-year.

Our liquidity levels are also strong. We ended the quarter with $80 billion of cash, with $15 billion attributable to Synchrony. Our commercial paper program remains stable at $25 billion, and we have substantially completed our long-term debt issuance for the year at $9.4 billion.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue to be strong and stable. Now I will walk through each of the segments.

The Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended the quarter with $170 billion of assets, flat to last year. On book core volume was $10 billion, up 5%, driven by increases in both the Americas and international. We continue to see strengthening in the US, largely in the equipment financing, with volume up 7%.

The team is staying disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles, and the new business returns in both lending and equipment were largely in line with the first half of the year. Earnings of $617 million were up 29%, driven by lower marks and impairments, primarily in our Corporate air book, as well as higher gains and tax benefits.

The Consumer segment ended the quarter with $141 billion of assets, up 4% from last year, driven by Synchrony. Net income was $621 million, down 31%.

As I mentioned earlier, Synchrony team will cover all the details of their quarter in a call later this morning. Our share of their earnings was $509 million, down 25%, net of minority interest and investment in its standalone capabilities.

The international Consumer business was down as well from the effect of lower assets, which were down 16% year-over-year, consistent with last quarter.

In Real Estate, assets of $36 billion were down 9% versus prior year. The equity book is down 28% from a year ago to $12 billion.

Net income of $175 million was down 62%, primarily from nonrepeat of prior-year tax benefits. In the current quarter, we sold 72 properties from our Real Estate equity book, with a book value of roughly $0.5 billion, for $122 million in gains.

In the verticals, GECAS earned $133 million, down 23%, from lower assets and tax benefits. Impairments, including our annual review completed this quarter, resulted in $197 million after-tax impact, roughly in line with the third quarter of last year.

The impairments are driven by value declines in 50-seater regional jets, older 767s, and older A320s. Overall, the portfolio is in great shape, and we finished the quarter once again with no aircraft on the ground and zero delinquencies.

We do not anticipate any updates in fourth quarter to the GECAS impairment process. New volume was much stronger at $1.4 billion, up 62%, with very attractive returns in line with the first half of the year.

As Jeff mentioned before, we were excited to announce the Milestone acquisition on Monday. The acquisition combines GECAS' global reach and leasing expertise with a growing helicopter financing business that will diversify our business and put our capital to work at good returns.

This is in line with GE Capital's strategy to grow in the midmarket and Industrial verticals space where we have deep domain expertise and are competitively advantaged. The deal is expected to close in 2015, pending regulatory approvals.

Energy Finance earned $61 million, down 59%, resulting from lower assets and gains and higher impairments. EFS volume was up strongly at 152% year-over-year at very attractive returns.

As you look forward to the fourth quarter, we expect GE Capital to be about $1.8 billion in earnings, including the gain from exiting of our Nordics business. However, we continue to aggressively work on opportunities to reduce the size of our nonstrategic portfolio, and these transactions could impact earnings and the tax rate in the fourth quarter.

So overall, Keith and team continue to execute the portfolio strategy and deliver solid operating results. With that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff. We remain on track for our 2014 operating framework. Industrial segment earnings were driven by sustained organic growth and margin expansion and are expected to grow by at least 10% this year. GE Capital is on track, with higher earnings in the fourth quarter due to the timing of the Nordic consumer finance platform sale.

Corporate is on track as expected; and as expected, Corporate has been a drag in 2014 because of restructuring investments exceed gains. However, this will be a real tailwind in 2015.

Cash and revenues remain on track and we expect fourth-quarter organic revenue to be robust. Despite a volatile global environment, GE expects to have a good fourth quarter and deliver on our 2014 framework.

In addition, we are changing the portfolio to position GE for long-term growth. The GE team has done a good job of both strategic and operational execution. With a big backlog, high levels of recurring revenue, and a restructuring program already in place, we believe that GE will deliver for our investors in times like these.

Now, Matt, let's turn it back over to you and take some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: All right. Thanks, Jeff. Why don't we open it up and take some questions now?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi. Good morning, guys. Appreciate the detail on the presentation; it's really helpful.

Guys, I wanted to get your sense. If you look at the markets, it is kind of telling you that the world is falling apart; but then we see the numbers here and they look pretty darn good overall, and overall in the space haven't been that bad.

What are your customers telling you? Are we at a risk of a real pullback in customer activity as we get into the fourth quarter, just based on this new growth contagion that is out there, this growth fear?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, just give you a view of the world. Again, there is certainly a lot going on, but I would say the US is probably the best we have seen it since the financial crisis. Right? When you look at rail loadings and things like that, you've got a decent and healthy US market.

Europe is slower, for sure. But I think most industrial companies haven't counted on Europe and Japan for much incremental growth.

Then as you go across the emerging markets -- and 2 weeks ago I was in the Middle East and North Africa -- still pretty healthy, robust. China I think is more of a micro story than macro story now.

Aviation, Healthcare very strong. If you are in the right industries, very robust.

Mexico better. So if you look at it geographically, Scott, I think it is this slow growth pattern with volatility, but not a lot different than what we have seen in the past.

And then industry by industry, Aviation remains strong, Transportation remains strong. Power depends on what segments you're in.

Oil & Gas, you definitely have more caution in Oil & Gas. But I have been with a bunch of the CEOs just in the last couple days, and the long-term projects I think are still underway. But there is certainly, I would say -- there was already caution before the last, I would say, month or so around there.

So I think it fits a pattern that we have seen the last couple years, and the underlying activity is still reasonably healthy, but not universal. There are some parts that are clearly stronger than others.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Just -- Healthcare, it's unusual for you guys to make a big management change like that in the middle of a quarter -- or middle of the year, I should say. The Healthcare numbers were pretty good.

What was it, Jeff, that you didn't like about the direction of what is going on in Healthcare, that really catalyzed a change there?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, these things were always individual by individual. I think John Dineen was a really good leader here; I think he has got good opportunities. As you saw yesterday, he's got a nice new assignment.

Sometimes I just think it works for the individual and for the Company. So, again, I think the Healthcare business is still a key business for us, but it gives us a new set of eyes and I think in John's case, the future makes sense for him as well.

SCOTT DAVIS: I normally don't ask three questions, but people are asking questions. Why put a non-Healthcare, non-domain experienced guy into a business like this? Jeff, you have said in the past that you really want more domain expertise within the businesses. John is -- I think he is very good, obviously, but it came as a little bit strange to put a non-Healthcare guy in charge of the Healthcare business.

Could you just explain that a little bit? And then I will pass it on.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, yes, Scott, look, I loved Flannery's global experience; I thought that was outstanding. He has got a great strategic mind.

But he has more experience in Healthcare than I had when I became the CEO of the Healthcare more than 10 years ago. So I think he has got really a nice background and has real hands-on experience with it outside the United States.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning. Yes, I was quite -- obviously very pleased to get the detail on Life Sciences; a real gem of an asset, but relatively small in the scheme of things. I am wondering, Jeff, is this a business that you want to grow a bit more aggressively going forward from here?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, there's two -- maybe I will start and then, Kieran, turn it over to you. I think in the bioprocess manufacturing we have been able to do bolt-on acquisitions behind organic growth, and I think that has been a great GE success factor over time. So I think that formula is one that we continue to make -- get experience with.

Then the other side, on the diagnostic pharma side, Nigel, that is more of a heavy R&D side, right? So I would say, maybe bolt-on acquisitions on the bioprocess manufacturing; maybe some R&D collaborations; but I don't see a big deal.

I don't know. Kieran, why don't I turn to you?

KIERAN MURPHY: Yes, I agree, Jeff. Look, I think the prognosis for growth for this business is actually very strong. We have a great portfolio, especially in the bioprocessing space. We have done some nice deals here to give ourselves the start-to-finish that I referred to in the pitch.

And there is no question that with the innovation in medicine moving more towards biology and really strong, continued growth in monoclonal antibodies, we are in a great position to serve that market. And, of course, if you look at what is happening in the emerging markets, especially in places like China, and the need for infrastructure, I think our solutions are ideally suited to that.

So I see a great opportunity for growth. From our standpoint, the GE infrastructure globally gives us such a great reach into the markets, especially with places like China and the Middle East and Latin America. The infrastructure of GE gives us a great backbone to actually reach into these markets and do projects in difficult situations.

NIGEL COE: Okay, thanks. Then, Jeff, as a follow-on, expressing confidence in the 7% organic for the year is obviously encouraging, given the headlines. But you clearly have the backlog in place, but you talk about some deferrals into 4Q, maybe 2015, in Oil & Gas and perhaps Power.

So I am wondering to what extent that you are concerned that perhaps these delays might push into 2015 and therefore maybe 4Q comes in a bit weaker. So what gives you confidence that GE can get the 7% for the year?

JEFF IMMELT: I would circle back. I don't know, Jeff, why don't you -- the Power stuff is really the hub of, I guess, our confidence. I don't know, Jeff, you want to --?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I mean, we have a fourth quarter in front of us that we think is going to be very strong. Just for instance, year-over-year in the fourth quarter our gas turbine shipments are going to be up more than 40% year-over-year; our Wind shipments will be up more than 30% year-over-year; Aero shipments 16%. Even commercial and military engines are going to be up mid double-digits, and we are looking for a 30% increase in locos year-over-year.

So we are looking at a fourth quarter that we think is going to be very strong. And we expect the Power business to be up substantially, substantially in the fourth quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: And this stuff is, Nigel, that is already sited and financed and in backlog and stuff like that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. For the most part, most of the gas turbines -- or 100% of the gas turbines are in backlog; we are in good shape on Wind. So a good part of the volume that drives the fourth quarter we stand pretty firmly on.

I would say, as I have said before, Distributed Power is the place where we have seen the most volatility. And based on the places we are selling, I think that is going to continue to play out that way. But I think we feel good about a strong revenue quarter in the fourth quarter.

NIGEL COE: That's very helpful. Just a quick follow-on to that. Obviously based on equipment orders, shipments in place for 4Q, normally that would dent margins. But you had service margins up so strong in this quarter; so I am wondering.

Can you maybe add some color on where you stand for margin in 4Q as well?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We expect to continue to progress on margins. We are on this journey to 17%-plus 2016. We have got -- we are 50 basis points up third quarter year-to-date, and we expect to be on that trajectory to get to 17% in 2016. So we would expect to continue to progress.

JEFF IMMELT: I just think the tailwinds -- the micro stuff -- SG&A is good, value gap is good, and I think the service productivity actually has good momentum as well.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Thanks, Jeff.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks and good morning. Maybe just -- it's been a little while now that you have been moving forward with Alstom. How has your thinking continued to progress as the time has passed; we've got another quarter of information behind us from Alstom and within your business.

Where are you in the process? And how are you thinking about the opportunity now versus a few months ago?

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, here is what -- again, we are just in the process itself. I think the regulatory stuff is all going per schedule. We haven't seen anything that is a surprise.

They are in the same markets out there that you guys see every day. So some good, some bad on that; but not a big surprise there.

And I would say synergies, the opportunities for synergies, are probably greater than what we would have expected. So we continue to work on that.

So I think other than that I don't really -- there is not a lot more color I can add, Steve. I will do more at the outlook meeting on Alstom.

But I would say we still like what we see. We still think there is good potential to run it as a combined entity better.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then maybe just going -- diving a little bit into the order price profile on slide 3. Obviously, pretty positive across most of those segments; and then we saw yet another quarter where Healthcare was negative -- and kind of used to that at this point. Obviously, you called out the positives going on in Life Science.

So maybe just continue to give us a little understanding. Obviously this must be within systems. What is happening? Is there any change here?

How the Affordable Care Act you are seeing play out so far, and maybe are you looking at this thing with a little more of a fresh eye these days? Just some thoughts on that front.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. I think Healthcare has been, everything else being equal, reasonably consistent for quite a long period of time. We have seen quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year equipment pricing in the down 140 basis points, roughly, 150 basis points at a point in time. A little bit better on service.

But I don't think we see anything that would suggest that the dynamics around those product cycles, the market behavior around price is changing. So we are very focused on winning with technology and gaining share that way.

And as I said, for the first time this year we had a reasonably strong equipment market here in the US for us, up 10%. We don't think the market was up that.

So we need to win on technology and execution, and I think the price dynamics of equipment and imaging are what they are. And I don't see anything changing there.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, there is a little bit of Healthcare that is on the high-tech learning curve, so you get -- our CM rates are equal to or greater even sometimes when the price is down, because we are getting the cost down in the product as well. So it has a unique perk, I would say, visibility or in compared to some of our other products and technologies.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa.

STEPHEN TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, guys. Good morning. You've got obviously a big equipment number coming through in the fourth quarter. There will be a bit of a mix impact. I think you gave some color on the margin; seems like it is going to be up.

Maybe if I just look at normal seasonality, which has been pretty consistent in the last few years, and profits, 3Q to 4Q you guys have been up about 37%, 38%. Will you be up similarly in the fourth quarter from an operating profit, Industrial profit perspective?

So somewhere around low 6s, 6.1 type of number for the fourth quarter? Or it will be better than normal seasonality?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, we expect to be up, obviously, with the higher volume in the fourth quarter; and we expect to continue to build on the cost gains we've had throughout the year, both in terms of SG&A and Corporate costs. So we are expecting an increase in -- we expect to earn more in the fourth quarter, for sure. And we are expecting strong double-digit revenue growth, and we expect to continue to make progress on margins.

STEPHEN TUSA: Right. I guess from a -- will it be less than the 50 bps in the fourth quarter year-over-year? It sounds (multiple speakers) the mix is going to be tough.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We have a very heavy equipment quarter in the fourth quarter, for sure. But as I said, we still -- we expect to make progress on margins for the year. We expect to stay on that trajectory to get to 17%-plus in 2016.

So (multiple speakers) 50 basis points in the third quarter, and I would expect us to have a decent year.

STEPHEN TUSA: Okay. Then one last question, just on the turbine forecast for next year you guys have. The sales are a little bit higher; orders are a little bit lower. Can you still grow your turbine shipments next year at this stage of the game?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, when we do the outlook meeting in December, we will give you a little bit more color on what we are thinking about 2015.

JEFF IMMELT: There is also going to be -- there is starting to be, Steve, a higher mix on big units as well. So you just -- we will try to spell that all out. But you definitely see the market mixing towards the bigger units.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hey, on Synchrony, the timing of the split-off transaction. I know you are saying late 2015; it depends on regulatory approvals.

But for modeling purposes, what do you suggest that we be using?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: You are right. We are hopeful that we can get the exchange executed in late 2015. If I were modeling next year, I think I would just model Synchrony in the year and the exchange happening on 1/1 of 2016.

We can't tell you today exactly when in late 2015. I think for modeling purposes, I would just -- I would have it in for the year.

DEANE DRAY: Great. That's helpful. Then showcasing Life Sciences today, we talked a lot about growth. Maybe you can share with us what the returns have been on these investments.

I don't know if you can still trace back to the returns on Amersham, but maybe start there.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, we have looked at that. If you go back, I believe Amersham was done in 2004. When we go back and look at it, over the last roughly 10 years in this business we have collected about $10 million of cash. Obviously, we had the Amersham investment; we had several other investments along the way.

We have got, order of magnitude, $13 billion invested. If you look at the business today at $1.1 billion to $1.2 billion of EBITDA, we think the multiple -- if you split it the way Kieran described it, if you think about biopharma and research as a very high multiple of EBITDA, based on transactions Merck and others have done, and the diagnostics business being a lower multiple business, lower growth, lower margin at 15, 15.5 times those EBITDA numbers, you get a total value of, call it $27 billion: $17 billion what we got today, roughly; $10 billion of cash collected, versus the $13 billion we've got into it. You get something like a low teens IRR, if you will, life-to-date.

Now having said that, we think Kieran has got his business accelerating from here, and we are very bullish on the biopharma space. So we think the returns from here forward are going to be more attractive than that. I don't know if I answered your question.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a couple quick ones. Jeff, you noted the unit outlook is a little cloudier on energy now size of units are moving up.

But I think the color in the quarter was Thermal order dollars were down but you had higher gigawatts in orders. Can you give us a little bit of color then, what is really going on, on new unit pricing? And does that imply that these first H units really go out at very, very tough pricing?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Sure. It is definitely a dynamic with the H. As we talked about, we've got 13 in backlog and we have some customers that are rethinking what otherwise might have been F-powered capacity with H-powered capacity. Generally speaking, it is one H unit will replace two F units.

So on the pricing front, these are launch orders, so the initial H orders are going to be tougher. No question about that. We will get down the cost curve as quickly as possible.

But I think generally speaking, we think the technology has been incredibly well received. And we're where we thought we would be, if not better, given the early 2014 launch of the technology.

So we feel like we are more competitive. We had a great quarter in the US. Took 11 units in the US, very strong.

JEFF IMMELT: I think the other dynamic that I would talk about, Jeff, is the mix of regions is probably better. The US is probably the place where there is the most interest right now, and that has tended to be a slightly better-margin type region for us. So that is a positive.

JEFF SPRAGUE: All right. I am just trying to understand the disconnect between Power & Water order price up 1.3% (multiple speakers).

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I got you; I'm sorry, Jeff. Yes, I get it. I'm sorry.

The H turbines, because they are new, they are not in the OPI number. There is no price to compare to last year.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I'm sorry. I misunderstood the question.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Well, you partially got what I wanted to know, too; but there was a second element implied, so I appreciate that. Then, just on -- maybe stepping back to the Milestone deal, maybe I wasn't thinking about it this way, but focusing on the core in GE Capital, I didn't really think that meant M&A was on the table. I thought that was probably more an organic idea.

What is your appetite for M&A in Capital moving forward?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Jeff, here is what I would say. This is a strike-zone deal for what we do in GECAS.

We know how to do this. It is an operating lease business. It matches very well with our footprint geographically on where we have resources and operating capabilities deployed.

We know how to manage businesses like this that are very asset intensive. And we really like what the returns look like over time.

It also lines up, like GECAS does, with our Aviation business. A very high percentage of this portfolio are GE-powered helicopters, and we think that provides a lot of synergy.

So we have been, I think, reasonably consistent saying that we were going to continue to grow our core midmarket and industrially aligned verticals as we move forward. At the same time, we are very aggressively working the $135 billion of nonstrategic parts of the portfolio, and we have got a lot of things in motion there.

I think the other way you need to think about it a bit is we have got capital available. And we would rather deploy the capital at very attractive returns than put the capital to work in a bank at a negative carry.

So I think this makes all the sense in the world, and I don't think in any way is it inconsistent with anything we or Keith have communicated.

OPERATOR: John Inch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Just given the puts and takes in Power & Water between orders and heavy shipments, and I know it has got such a big influence on cash flow. Jeff Bornstein, are we thinking that operating cash for the year is going to be toward the lower end of the $17 billion? Or is it too close to call?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: As we sit here today, I would say we expect to be about the midpoint of the range. We have got a big fourth quarter in front of us; no question about it. If you think about last year, we did $5.5 billion of CFOA industrially in the fourth quarter.

Based on the earnings improvement, what we expect to get from a working capital improvement by liquidating all that inventory in the fourth quarter, we think we have got a path to be about midpoint of the range between $14 billion and $17 billion.

JEFF IMMELT: Going to have much higher Industrial earnings, John, and much higher shipments. So we ought to have a good fourth quarter, I would say, on cash.

JOHN INCH: Okay. Then FX. One of the dynamics of GE that makes you different is just you carry a high value of your equipment versus other industrial companies. This could be for either of you: Does FX and the decline of the euro and the yen, does that open a door to Mitsubishi and Siemens really to become much more aggressive on the OE pricing, that could influence the dynamic going forward? How are you thinking about it based on everything you know so far?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would say, listen, a great part of our Industrial footprint here is that we make product all over the world, so we can be flexible about where we make product. If FX becomes that big an issue, we can be flexible about where we make product. So I don't think we are anticipating FX being a competitive issue for us.

JEFF IMMELT: I would echo that, John. I think the dynamic is really one where we've got the right global footprint to do whatever ultimately we need to do.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Just a question. You highlighted H turbines being successful and some of your customers really looking into them. But you also said that it requires some re-permitting.

How disruptive could it be? And could we see a pause in North American cycle because of that?

JEFF IMMELT: No. In North America I think a lot of that planning is already underway. So I would say, Andrew, not much.

I think the whole product line is well positioned, and it is great to have a large block turbine; but we also are still seeing activity on the other turbines as well. So I think -- I don't know, other than the 13, we've got another 15 Hs that are out there being --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Globally.

JEFF IMMELT: Globally, which should enter the backlog sometime imminently. So we are just seeing pretty good momentum there. And I don't see it disrupting let's say the flow from commitment to order to revenue.

ANDREW OBIN: Sure. Now quickly if I could just squeeze one more in. Measurement and Control, could you just give us a little bit more color how it is improving and where we are on the cull within that division?

JEFF IMMELT: The organic -- we have done some dispositions there, Andrew, so I think the organic is up mid single-digits range, 7%, something like that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: So we have seen that be pretty decent in the last quarter.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. I would say, excluding the disposition impacts, the M&C businesses have started to turn a little bit organically. Orders in the third quarter were up 7%; revenue, as I said in the script, were up 8%, and they are getting some operating leverage.

We have seen a little bit more strength in Oil & Gas applications and Industrial applications around Controls. So we are hopeful that we are treading more positively here in the M&C business.

As you know, that is important. It is a very profitable business for Oil & Gas.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Matt, I want to just -- before we cut off today, I think we talked a lot about execution in the quarter, but I wanted to elevate just a bit. We really remain on track to get the Company at 75% Industrial, 25% GE Capital, while growing EPS every year -- this year, next year, and into the future.

I think in addition to the good execution in the quarter, the strategic moves the Company continues to make -- with Alstom, Appliances, remixing GE Capital -- continues to make this a more valuable Company. So I think that's in addition to the current quarter operations; I think we are executing on the portfolio to create a much more valuable Company.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. Thank you, Jeff.

A couple of quick announcements. A replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today.

We have two upcoming investor events, the first on Tuesday, December 16. We will hold our annual outlook meeting in New York City. And on Friday, January 23, we will hold our fourth-quarter 2014 earnings webcast. As always, we will be available today to take your questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen. This concludes your conference call. Thank you for participating today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141019eaah001jo
  


 HD
 Q2  2014  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,252 words
   PD
18 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
MATT CRIBBINS, VP, CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Thank you, Christine. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's second-quarter webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release, presentation and GE supplemental earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein; and our Senior Vice President, Power & Water, Steve Bolze. We have asked Steve to join today to talk about the Alstom deal. Now I'd like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Great, Matt. Thanks, good morning, everyone. GE had a good quarter in a generally improving environment. We saw solid economic growth across most of our segments. Some economic indicators are really quite strong like rail loadings, revenue pass-through miles, demand for commercial credit and the appliance market strengthened during the quarter. Global markets were also generally positive. GE ended the quarter with a record backlog of $246 billion.

A particular highlight was the payback of our investments in technology. We recorded $36 billion of wins at the Farnborough Airshow, Transportation is prospering because of our commitment to push ahead with the Tier 4 locomotive. Healthcare is gaining share behind several big product launches and Oil & Gas is seeing broad interest in new Subsea innovations.

There is still a few tough markets like US Healthcare and Mining, but the economic trend is positive. At the half, execution is in line with our key goals. Industrial segment growth is up 10% with 6% organic revenue growth and margin expansion of 30 basis points. We are on track for $7 billion of Capital earnings with a $3 billion dividend. Capital allocation remains balanced and disciplined. We have returned $5.9 billion to investors through dividends and buyback. We are improving the GE portfolio as well. The Alstom acquisition will generate attractive growth in returns while helping GE to accelerate our achievement of 75% Industrial earnings. Retail Finance remains on track for an IPO by the end of July. The GE team is executing both operationally and strategically.

Orders grew by 4% with slightly positive pricing. Backlog is at a record high, as I said, of $246 billion, up $23 billion from last year. This was the strongest service performance in several years with growth of 14%. Aviation spares grew by 16% and Power Gen Services grew by 13%. Most of our service businesses are expanding. Transportation orders were up close to 40% overall and we have positioned the business to succeed in the future. We experienced some equipment order push outs, particularly in Wind, Oil & Gas and Subsea; however, our rolling four-quarter equipment growth is up 7%. And growth markets remain a highlight with 14% order expansion and growth in six of nine regions. Our orders and backlog give us confidence in the second half and 2015.

Our operating execution was good. We had 7% revenue growth in the quarter with 20 basis points of margin expansion. We are gaining share. Farnborough made a statement about GE's position in Aviation with $36 billion in wins. We won nearly 90% of all next-gen narrowbody announcements. As was reported earlier in the week, GE remains substantially ahead on the Tier 4 locomotive. We have 264 Tier 4 locos in backlog for 2015 and 2016, with more on the way and granted, this was zero in the first quarter, so our momentum is growing. We have nine high-efficiency large block H turbines in backlog with many more in the pipeline.

In Oil & Gas, we sold the first 20k-psi drilling system to Maersk. We have a $55 million backlog for the industry-leading Revolution CT scanner. For the quarter, our equipment revenue grew by 8% and service revenue grew by 5%, and six of nine growth regions expanded in the quarter. In addition, a few of our adjacencies are performing quite well. Life Sciences had order growth of 10% while Water grew by 11%, and we now expect $1.3 billion of Predictivity revenue for 2014, slightly ahead of our operating plan.

Simplification and value gap continue to drive margins. We're reducing the structural cost of GE. For the year, simplification, value gap and R&D efficiency should continue to be positive. In addition, we saw a nice margin turnaround in Energy Management and Appliances and Lighting, while Transportation and Healthcare are growing margins despite tough markets. We will continue to be negatively impacted by equipment mix for the year, but we are on track for solid margin improvement in 2014 overall, with expansion in most of our businesses and in the quarter, six of our seven Industrial segments had earnings growth. So really a good execution quarter.

Capital allocation is in-line with plan. Total CFOA is $3.4 billion, down 9% year to date. Industrial CFOA is above last year in total, but below if you add back the impact of the NBCU taxes last year. CFOA is impacted by timing and long cycle orders in Wind, driven by the lack of PTC clarity, and in Oil & Gas. Additionally, we have more inventory for second-half shipments given the substantially higher organic revenue growth we expect in 2014 versus 2013. We will see strong improvement in working capital in the third quarter and second half.

As previously communicated, we expect the Capital dividend to be about $3 billion in 2014. We ended the quarter with $87 billion of cash and we expect CFOA for 2014 to be in the $14 billion to $17 billion range as outlined in our 2014 framework. We have a similar first half/second half profile that we had in 2013. Capital allocation continues to be disciplined and balanced. We have raised the dividend by 16% for 2014. We filed the red herring for RFS today, targeting a late July IPO, and this should raise roughly $3.1 billion at the midpoint price for 15% of the Company. And we are targeting $4 billion of dispositions for the year.

In an important move for GE, the Alstom deal was announced and signed targeting a 2015 close. This is an exciting opportunity for GE and our investors. By 2016, we expect this will add $0.06 to $0.09 per share and allow the Company to have 75% of our earnings from Industrial. The synergies and returns are excellent. And Steve Bolze is here this morning to give you an update on Alstom, so let me turn it over to Steve.

STEVE BOLZE, PRESIDENT & CEO, GE POWER & WATER, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Thanks, Jeff. We've had a lot going on with respect to the Alstom transaction and I wanted to update you on the deal, our revised structure and our execution plans. As you recall from our initial announcement on April 30, the acquisition of Alstom's Power & Grid businesses would represent the largest single acquisition in GE's history. At the time, we said it was subject to several reviews, including our discussions with the French government. Those discussions have led now to our revised offer. We are happy with the outcome and have the unanimous recommendation of the Alstom Board and the endorsement of the French government.

A key point that I would like to stress is the deal economics remain the same and the price did not go up. Our deal is $13.5 billion of enterprise value at 7.9 times EBITDA and Alstom still retains its Transport business. We have, however, revised the initial deal structure and payment terms. We will be selling our Signaling business to Alstom Transport and creating three joint ventures. GE will have operational control in these joint ventures and Alstom will be investing about $3.5 billion for its stakes. I will give further details on the ventures in a moment.

Although the structure has been modified, our strategic rationale has not changed. The Power sector is core to GE's future and it has excellent long-term growth prospects. Alstom Power & Grid are businesses we know and like, and are being acquired at a good time in the cycle. What we like the most about Alstom is it complements us in technology, geography and they have great talent. It brings us broader scope in Power, a larger installed base for services growth and larger presence in emerging markets. Together with GE, this creates opportunities to improve our combined performance and it's in our sweet spot. Also, we continue to see good cost synergy opportunities and our plans remain intact. Overall, this is an attractive investment in a core business, which expands our competitive capabilities, and is accretive to GE earnings in year one with high teens IRR.

On the next page, I want to ground you on the new deal structure. First, the changes do not impact the core businesses, which are Alstom's Thermal assets. We will still own close to 100% of Alstom's gas and steam equipment and service businesses. About 86% of our synergies are in these businesses.

With respect to the joint ventures, Alstom will be the investor, but GE will have operational control and we still have clear visibility to the remaining synergies. The first JV is Renewables. It's made up of Alstom's Offshore Wind and leading Hydro business, as well as some of their new renewable technologies. GE and Alstom will each own 50% of this joint venture. Onshore Wind from Alstom will go directly into GE at 100%.

The second JV is the combination of GE's Digital Energy business and Alstom's Grid business. GE and Alstom will each own 50% of the joint venture. And the third joint venture is Global Nuclear and French Steam. We knew all along that with the majority of electricity generation in France being from nuclear power, there would be nuclear sovereignty issues. This venture includes Alstom's production and servicing equipment for conventional island of nuclear power plants, and development and sales of related new equipment globally. It also includes Alstom's Steam Turbine equipment and servicing applications for France.

In this joint venture, GE will own 80% of the economics and Alstom 20%, but Alstom will still have 50% of the voting interest. The sovereignty issues are addressed through a preferred share held by the French state with certain governance rights. In each JV, GE has control, will appoint the CEO and expects to consolidate. Alstom will have standard minority governance rights and will have put options with a minimum floor value at defined times. These joint ventures will not impact our ability to achieve our synergies.

On top of these ventures, one additional transaction is that we agreed to sell our Signaling business, a part of GE Transportation. It is a good deal for both parties. We got a good price for it, a market multiple, and it is a business that will do better as part of a larger Signaling business that Alstom has. In addition to that, we will enter into a collaboration agreement for both services and commercial activities that should make both GE and Alstom's Transportation businesses more successful.

As for our presence in France and Europe, after Alstom's businesses joined the GE family, we expect to have over 100,000 employees in Europe. We have agreed to add 1,000 new jobs in France and have factored this commitment into our financial plans. In addition, we have committed to keeping Grid, Hydro, Offshore Wind and Steam Turbine headquarters in France. In summary, the deal returns remain unchanged. There will be $3.5 billion less cash invested upfront and a $0.01 to $0.02 reduction in EPS accretion.

So now let's look at our plans for execution. We still see $300 million in year one synergies, growing to $1.2 billion in year five. We expect to realize 80% of the $1.2 billion in synergies by the third year. There are four main categories for synergies. The first is optimizing the manufacturing and services footprints. The combined businesses have 16 major manufacturing sites and many more feeder sites, and about 70 service sites across the globe. We estimate roughly $400 million of our savings here over the period.

Second, leveraging the combined sourcing buy to increase productivity, we have approximately $5 billion in common spend that we believe we can realize about 5% savings on. This is very consistent with our experience when we bought EGT from Alstom in 1999.

The third area is combining our R&D efforts across the product lines. Then, lastly, by consolidating supporting functions across SG&A, we see the ability to get about 10% synergy here across the combined businesses. We expect to spend approximately $900 million over the first five years to realize the $1.2 billion of cost savings. Beyond the $1.2 billion, we have assumed some modest revenue synergies, but see the potential for more upside. The teams have started to work to develop these additional growth opportunities. The current plan should drive $0.06 to $0.09 of EPS accretion in 2016, assuming a mid-2015 close. We have now kicked off our integration planning with Alstom, so we can hit the ground running when the approval process is complete. This will be a broad GE effort spanning many parts of the Company.

We have appointed Mark Hutchinson our overall GE integration leader. Mark is a GE officer with broad global experience and was most recently our CEO of China. We have formed a joint GE-Alstom steering committee and had our first meeting last week in Paris. From here, the process for closing will include Works Council consultations, Alstom shareholder approval and customary regulatory reviews driving an expected closing in mid-2015.

Overall, we are excited about the acquisition. We are confident in our ability to execute and we have a proven and experienced integration team now in place to ensure success. With that, I want to hand it over to Jeff Bornstein.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Thanks, Steve. I will start with a second-quarter summary here. We had revenues of $36.2 billion, up 3% from the second quarter of 2013. Industrial sales of $26.2 billion were up 7% and GE Capital revenues of $10.2 billion were down 6%. Operating earnings of $3.9 billion were up 7% and operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 8%. Continuing EPS of $0.35 includes the impact of non-operating pension and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations. We had $41 million of charges in the quarter in disc ops, primarily $30 million from WMC. WMC pending claims were down $700 million in the quarter and litigation claims were $1.3 billion higher. Reserves of $550 million are essentially flat versus the prior quarter with a slightly higher coverage of potential losses.

As Jeff said, CFOA year to date was $3.4 billion. We had Industrial CFOA of $2 billion and received $1.4 billion of dividends from GE Capital. Industrial CFOA was up 12% reported and down 41%, excluding the impact of 2013 NBCU tax payments. This was driven by timing of orders and inventory build and we're still on track for the $14 billion to $17 billion CFOA range that we guided for the year.

The GE tax rate for the quarter was 19%, up from 17% last year, bringing the year-to-date rate to 21%. As previously communicated, we expect the full-year Industrial rate to be about 20%. The GE Capital tax rate of a negative 13% was principally driven by the announced consumer Nordics disposition. The tax benefits from this transaction are anticipated to be higher than what we had planned for and with that, we now expect a low single-digit tax rate for the full year. We recorded roughly $260 million of tax benefits in the second quarter to bring the year-to-date rate in line with the expected lower full-year rate.

On the right side, you can see the segment results. Strong top-line growth of the Industrial segments revenues up 7% and operating profit growth of 9%. GE Capital earnings were down 5% in the quarter on lower assets. Per our previous communication, the GE Capital results now include the impact of preferred stock dividends. For the quarter, that was approximately $160 million versus $135 million in 2Q of 2013. I will cover the dynamics of each of the segments on the following pages.

First, I'll cover other items for the quarter. We had $0.03 of restructuring and other charges at Corporate. About $0.02 of that related to ongoing Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to invest in simplification to improve the Industrial cost structure. The spend was broad-based with projects in every business in Corporate. We are executing on approximately 145 projects that average 1.5 years payback. We also had a $0.01 one-time charge related to the write-off of an asset in our consolidated Nuclear joint venture. We took 51% of the impact related to that write-off and our partners took the remainder.

Offsetting the restructuring, we booked a gain related to the disposition of Wayne fuel dispensers business in Oil & Gas. We recorded a pretax gain at Corporate of $90 million related to that transaction. The net impact of these two items was a $0.02 charge. So to give some context, the gain came in about $100 million lower than expected. Our restructuring spend of $300 million pretax also came in about $100 million lower than planned. This was due to lower spend of about $70 million needed to execute the existing projects and some delays attributable to Works Councils for roughly $35 million. In addition to the ongoing restructuring spend, we had the one-time charge related to the Nuclear asset write-off. So restructuring and other charges net of gains of $0.02 ended up being a higher expense than we planned in the quarter.

Now I will take you through the segments starting with Power & Water. Orders of $6.3 billion were up 6%, equipment orders were down 1% with Distributed Power down 32%, Thermal down 9% and Renewables up 16%. The decrease in Distributed Power was attributable to the timing of orders in the emerging markets that we expect to close in the second half. Thermal orders were lower on gas turbine orders, 10 versus 24 a year ago, partially offset by more BOP orders for balance of plant. First-half gas turbine orders were 41 versus 32 a year ago. No change to our framework for 125 gas turbine orders for the year. In the second quarter, we booked our first H gas turbine order for a co-gen application in Russia and we expect to ship that unit in 2015.

Service orders were up 12% driven by PGS up 13% on strong demand for upgrades and parts. We expect a reasonably strong transactional outage season in the second half of the year. We booked 19 AGPs in the quarter versus 12 a year ago. Revenue in the quarter was higher by 10% to $6.3 billion. Growth was driven by equipment up 20% and services up 2%. Equipment revenue was driven by Thermal up 38% on two more gas turbines versus last year and higher BOP, up 38%. Wind equipment revenues were up 30% with 159 more wind turbines year over year. Thermal and Wind growth was partly offset by lower Distributed Power growth, which shipped 41 units this year versus 55 a year ago. Op profit of $1.1 billion was up 4% driven by volume and simplification benefits offset by negative mix, principally higher BOP and Wind shipments. Product line mix was 2.4 points of a margin drag in the quarter. SG&A was down 7% in the quarter.

Our outlook for the business for the total year has not changed. At the moment, we are likely to be stronger on AGPs than we planned, but may see some Distributed Power volume push. Gas and wind turbines remain within the framework we have shared with you.

Now for Oil & Gas, orders were up 5% in the quarter to $5.3 billion, equipment orders were down 9% versus a very strong second quarter in 2013 when equipment was up 42%. Turbomachinery was down 42% versus up 74% last year. Subsea was down 44% versus up 30% a year ago. Downstream Technology, up 85% on strong petrochemical demand and Drilling & Surface up 55% were strong in the quarter. Drilling received a launch order for our new 20,000 psi drilling system, the first in the industry, from Maersk and BP. The 20,000 psi capability makes ultra-deep offshore drilling possible in areas unavailable today, so we are quite excited about the progress there.

Service orders were strong, up 23% with Turbomachinery higher by 49% on increased upgrades, installations and transactional services. Downstream Technology was up 35% and M&C was up 1%. M&C was up 19%, excluding the impact of the Wayne and Sensors dispositions. Revenues of $4.8 billion were up 20% driven by equipment strength up 29% with Subsea up 51% and Turbomachinery up 15%. Service revenues were higher by 11% versus the second quarter of last year. Operating profit was up 25% on higher volume, positive value gap and strong productivity, offset partially by negative mix from Subsea growth. Margin rates in the quarter improved 50 basis points.

On the next page, Aviation. Demand for travel continues its strong growth. Year-to-date May, revenue passenger kilometers globally were up 6.2% with strength across all regions. Freight grew 4.4% May year-to-date. Orders in aviation were up 1% with equipment down 8%, driven, as we expected, by Commercial Engines down 27% on lower CFM orders and a non-repeat of the FedEx CF6 order from last year. This was partially offset by stronger international Military orders. Service orders were 13% higher with the spare parts orders rate up 16% to $28.4 million a day.

As Jeff mentioned, at the Farnborough Airshow, we won 312 LEAP engines on the Boeing MAX. We also won 520 LEAP engines on the Airbus A320neo versus 100 to the competition. For the A320neo program to-date, we have won 54% of the engines. And in 2014 year-to-date, the LEAP has won 67% of the engines on the A320neo. Overall, since the launch, the LEAP engine has won 77% of all narrowbody competitions.

Operationally, in the quarter, revenues were higher by 15%. Equipment revenues were also up 15% driven by Commercial Engines up 14% and Military Engines up 3%. We shipped 75 GEnx engines versus 33 a year ago in the quarter. Services revenue was up 58% with strength in Commercial Services partly offset by Military Services. Operating profit in the quarter was 12% driven by higher volume, positive value gap, offset by negative mix associated with the GEnx shipments and higher R&D spend in the quarter. Operating profit margins of 19.7% were down 40 basis points in the quarter. Through the half, margins are up 20 basis points. Overall, Dave Joyce and the Aviation team continue to execute and win and we expect the technology investments we have made and continue to make will sustain the momentum.

Next, Healthcare. Healthcare in the second quarter was again soft in the US as we expected. Inpatient volumes were weak, which, in conjunction with increased consumerism and the changes in the healthcare law, appear to be causing hospitals and clinics to continue to be cautious on new investments. Orders for the business of $4.8 billion were flat with emerging markets up 7% led by Latin America up 12% and China up 12%, offset by the US down 2%. Equipment orders were flat with HCS down 4% offset partially by Life Sciences, up 23%, up 5% organically. Service orders were up 1%. Backlog of $16.6 billion was 6% higher than a year ago.

Revenues were flat with developed markets down 2% and emerging markets up 7% with strength in China, Latin America and the Middle East. Operating profit was up 1% with strong cost productivity offset by negative value gap and FX. SG&A ex-acquisitions was down 8% in the second quarter. Op profit margins improved 10 basis points, up 60 basis points organically. For the second half, we expect the market dynamics to be similar to the first half with weakness in the US, but continued growth in Life Sciences and the growth regions. The business will continue to deliver on remaking their cost structure and we expect that Healthcare will grow earnings single digits for the year.

Next, talk about Transportation. The Transportation team continues to execute well in a pretty tough environment. Domestic activity continues to improve though. Carloads in the US were up 4% for the first half driven by intermodal, petroleum and very strong grain shipments, and even coal saw 30 basis points of growth as post-winter stockpiles are replenished. Higher volume in conjunction with the first-quarter weather effect have impacted velocity on the lines. As a result, parked locos are at their lowest level since 2007, 2008.

We are seeing increased orders activity in locos. At the beginning of the year, we communicated that we expected to ship about 600 units in 2014. We now expect that shipment number to be closer to 750 plus. Balancing that, Mining volume for both units and parts are weak. We guided an expectation of being down almost 50% in 2014 versus 2013, and now expect Mining to be slightly weaker than that. Orders for the quarter were up 35% with equipment growth of 40% and service growth of 32%. Equipment strength was driven by North American locomotives, including our first order for 39 Tier 4 locos for delivery in 2015. Service orders were driven by locomotive parts and a $125 million Signaling win in Singapore. Backlog of $15.9 billion grew 13% from the second quarter of last year driven by equipment up 51%.

Revenues in the quarter were down 18%. Equipment was down driven by Mining down 43% and lower loco and kit deliveries. Service revenue was down on weak mining parts, partially offset by core services and loco parts. Op profit down 14% was driven by lower volume partially offset by positive value gap and cost-out. SG&A was down 14% in the quarter. Operating margins improved 110 basis points on strong cost management. Our total year expectations for Transportation remain in tact with better locomotive demand and deliveries offsetting slightly worse Mining experience than the 50% down we expected. We feel good about our momentum on locomotives and are experiencing high utilization of our plants in 2014. Based on the first-to-market Tier 4 solution and improved rail volumes, we are optimistic that customers will continue to place orders in and for 2015.

Now Energy Management. The business took a couple steps forward in the quarter, but still remains very much a work in progress. Orders were down 14% in the quarter, partly driven by no repeat of the big ComEd meter order last year in Digital Energy. As a result, Digital Energy orders were down 32%, but up 26% excluding the ComEd order. Industrial Solution was down 8% on slow demand in North America and the exit as part of restructuring of seven subscale international platforms. Power Conversion saw a number of Marine orders pushed to the second half.

Backlog continues to grow, up 12% year over year. Revenue in the quarter was down 6%. Op profit more than doubled from last year to $69 million and margin rates improved 210 basis points. The team is doing a great job executing their restructuring strategies, including reducing rooftops by 40%, simplifying their product structures and realigning their SG&A functions. Restructuring benefits are delivering productivity that more than offsets the negative volume. We expect Energy Management to continue its improvement trajectory.

Appliances, core industry was up 5% in the second quarter with Contract up 8% and Retail up 4%. Housing starts rebounded, up 9%, helping volumes in the quarter and single-family starts grew 5% and multifamily starts grew 18% in the quarter. Revenue in the quarter was flat with Appliances flat and Lighting down 1%. Appliance revenue was down 1 point on volume, but up 1 point on price. We ran a number of promotional events that drove improvement during the quarter with revenue down 5% in April, up 1% in May and up 5% in June, so the trajectory is correct.

Lighting revenue was down 1% with strong LED growth of 50% offset by 9% down on traditional products, as retail has continued to bleed off incandescent inventories. Op profit of $102 million was up 23% on positive value gap and productivity. SG&A in the quarter was down 4% and op profit rate improved 90 basis points in the quarter.

Next is GE Capital. Revenue of $10.2 billion was down 6% primarily from lower assets and lower gains. Assets were down 2% or $10 billion year over year. GE Capital's net income of $1.7 billion, which includes $161 million of preferred dividend payment, was down 5% on a comparable basis as impact from lower earning assets and gains more than offset lower losses, marks and impairments and higher tax benefits.

ENI of $371 billion was down $19 billion, or 5% from last year and down $2 billion sequentially. Noncore ENI was down 15% to $51 billion versus last year. Net interest margins in the quarter at 5% were essentially flat. GE Capital's liquidity and capital levels continue to be strong. We ended the quarter with $76 billion of cash and Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel 1 basis improved 28 basis points sequentially and 51 basis points year over year to 11.7%.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue to be stable. The only exception being the seasonality we expect in the UK mortgage, but delinquencies in the UK mortgage portfolio are actually down 160 basis points year over year.

Now to walk through each of the segments. In CLL, Commercial Lending and Leasing, business ended the quarter with $174 billion of assets, flat to last year. On-book core volume was $11 billion, down 3% driven by the Americas, which was down 4%, but we do see pockets of strength in the US, largely in equipment financing with our Transportation business up 25%, vendor equipment leasing up 7% and our Fleet business up 6%. Volume in CLL international was up 3%. The team is staying disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles and the new business returns were about 1.8% roughly in line with the first quarter. Earnings of $541 million were down 34% driven by lower tax benefits from the non-repeat of last year's Fleet Candidate disposition and tax benefits we had in Europe, as well as lower assets. These were partially offset by improvement in losses, marks and impairments.

And the Consumer segment ended the quarter with $135 billion of assets, flat to last year. Earnings of $472 million were down 43% driven by lower international assets, which were down 12% year over year, including the impacts of the Swiss IPO and Bay Thailand sale. In the current quarter, we also recorded roughly $85 million of after-tax loss provisions as a result of recent legislation on consumer pricing in Hungary. North American retail finance earned $512 million in the quarter, down 9% driven by continued investment in its standalone capabilities partially offset by 9% growth in its earning assets.

Real Estate assets at $37 billion were down 11% versus prior year and down $1 billion sequentially. The equity book is down 26% from a year ago to $13 billion. Net income of $289 million was down 34% primarily from lower level of tax benefits and gains. In the current quarter, we sold 52 properties with a book value of about $420 million for $137 million in gains. That is down $65 million from last year.

The verticals, GECAS earned $343 million, up 13%, as lower impairments and higher gains offset the impact of lower assets, which were down 9%. New volume was $1.5 billion, up 17%, with attractive returns of about 3% ROIs, and we ended the quarter with zero aircraft on the ground. Energy Finance had a good quarter with earnings up 27% to $76 million driven by core income and lower level of marks and impairments.

As I mentioned earlier, the tax rate at GE Capital was negative for the quarter and that was driven by the planned Nordics transaction with $260 million of tax true-up being booked in the GE Capital Corporate. Excluding the tax true-up, the GE Capital tax rate would have been in the low single-digits for the quarter. As you look forward to the third quarter, we expect GE Capital to be around about $1.6 billion in earnings.

Overall, Keith and the team continue to execute the portfolio strategy and deliver solid operating results. The Nordics disposition, which we expect to complete in the third quarter, and the IPO of Retail Finance, which I'll cover on the next page, are major steps in further reducing GE Capital's consumer footprint and focusing on the commercial core.

So with that, we are announcing today that we are targeting the IPO of our North American Retail Finance business for the end of July. We will be putting out a prospectus or a red herring later this morning. We are limited to what we can say during the IPO process, but we are pleased to be at the final stages of the IPO. We are targeting a 15% offering for about $3.1 billion at the midpoint of the price range. There was a potential additional 2.25% for the greenshoe. As we've said in the past, the capital raise will remain within Synchrony to enhance its standalone capital and liquidity levels. There will be $1.5 billion of funded transitional financing from GE Capital. This is down from our previous estimate of about $3 billion. The team has been doing a lot of work to strengthen their standalone capabilities on capital liquidity and governance. You may have seen that S&P and Fitch published their investment-grade ratings earlier this week for Synchrony.

We are targeting the split-off in late 2015 subject to regulatory reviews and approvals. Assuming a $3 billion IPO for 15%, we would retain an approximately $17 billion position in Synchrony. There are a lot of variables and the GE share count reduction will be dependent on the price of GE and Synchrony shares at the time of the split. We are still targeting 9.5 billion or less shares with this transaction. The process is on track and we'll update you along the way. With that, I will pass it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: This is Jeff. On the 2014 framework, we have no change to the operating framework for 2014. We expect double-digit Industrial operating profit growth behind solid organic growth and margin expansion. GE Capital earnings are on track for $7 billion, excluding the impact of the preferred dividend. We will hit our simplification goals, including a $500 million reduction in Corporate expense. We plan for restructuring to exceed gains, which is a drag on 2014, but will benefit 2015 and beyond. CFOA and revenue remain on track. In fact, I would say organic growth is probably closer to the high end of the range. We continue to move the Company forward strategically. Our long-term investments in technology are really paying off with solid share gains and with the Retail Finance IPO and Alstom acquisition, we are boldly reshaping the Company.

I'm proud of the GE team's ability to execute so well strategic and operationally on so many fronts and we are well-positioned for the future. So Matt, now back to you and let's take some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great, Christine, let's open it up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. A thorough presentation, so I appreciate that. I guess since we have got Steve there, I think just some logistical questions on Alstom. Do they still -- how do you keep the place from falling apart, I guess, from now until you close it? I mean do they still bid on projects and compete against you till you close? Do you have some -- any control or oversight of how operations -- how things are run between now and then because it is going to be a little while till everything gets approved?

STEVE BOLZE: Scott, listen, we are two separate companies and will be through closing. As we said, we have an integration planning effort that we have now kicked off, but we have a process that we have to go through, Works Council approvals, they have a shareholder review and we have all the various regulatory steps to go through. So at this point, Scott, they are separate. In some areas, we do compete, but, as I mentioned earlier, these companies are largely complementary. Complementary in terms of geography, technology and it is a company we obviously know and as you know, Scott, back in 1999, we bought the packaging business. That was EGT that came to us and some of our best leaders came from that. But in the short term, we are separate and they are under their control.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, understood. And then a couple other nits here. When you think about Synchrony, and this is for Jeff and Jeff, but are there any structural or tax reasons why this business can't be sold in the process or post the IPO versus spun?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Scott, the reason we focus and we are heading down a path on the split is it's very tax-efficient for shareholders. So there is real value creation in doing the split-off for our shares versus selling the business outright.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. And then just lastly, there is a lot of chatter on the M&A space. There's press reports out there on Siemens and Dresser. Does Alstom really cut you guys out of being able to go after some of the stuff if it becomes opportunistic and you have a white knight type scenario with Dresser? I mean it's a fairly unique asset. I don't think I'm asking you to comment specifically on Dresser, but on an overall basis, does Alstom really keep you out of the market or do you feel like you could still go in there and if need be issue equity or be creative about how to finance it?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, what I would say is, in our Oil & Gas business, we feel like we've got a great coverage in terms of where we are right now. We really don't have any changes today on how we think about capital allocation and things like that, but, look, we are always looking at the portfolio in terms of additional divestitures and things that we can do progressively inside the Company. We are not done with that yet and that could open up new capital allocation options, but we are really not -- we really today -- our focus is on -- our near-term focus is on the Alstom integration and doing a great job with that.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, good answer. Thanks guys, and good luck.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks. I just had a question on the Healthcare business. You talked back in December about how you might get close to a 10% profit growth this year in Healthcare. First half, I think profits are down. So just maybe a quick update on your thoughts there.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Julian, I think what we talked about was Healthcare profit growth of high single digits, low double digits. I think given how we've started the year particularly in the US and particularly in HCS, our expectations as of now are that we are going to grow operating profit in Healthcare single digits this year.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Julian, the US market continues to be tough. Outside the US, I think the team is executing pretty well overall. I would agree with Jeff's assessment on where Healthcare will come in on the year and I think the good part about GE is we have other segments that will be higher than our original expectations, so that in total we still feel good about the overall framework of double-digit operating profit growth, Industrial operating profit growth.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: And within Healthcare. I mean we still expect -- we have expectations the growth markets will continue to grow for us, most of them double digits. Life Sciences will have a great year, but the US is going to be a real headwind.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. And then just on the kind of GE-wide EBIT margin bridge, I think in the first half you've had a value gap benefit to EBIT of about $200 million. I think in January you talked about a $200 million benefit for the year as a whole. So what should we expect for value gap in the second half as an EBIT driver?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so I think the guidance we gave is a couple hundred million for the year. We are in very good shape through the first half. We still expect value gap to contract a bit in the second half as it relates to prices we ship backlog, particularly in Power & Water. But there is a chance we could be a little bit better for the year on value gap, but I wouldn't expect it to be markedly different than what we have shared with you previously.

JEFF IMMELT: I think simplification is still on track for $1 billion plus for the year.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great. And then just lastly for Steve, on the Grid business, Chinese competitors have made very big inroads there even on areas like HVDC in the last decade. How confident are you about the ability to bring up the Grid margins given the competitive landscape is so different now?

STEVE BOLZE: I think what you saw from the results in the quarter is that team is making progress and one of the things that business also needs long term is scale and that is one of the things we talked about with Alstom in our integration planning is one of the joint ventures we have is right in that space. We'll be putting our Digital Energy business with the Alstom Grid business to have more scale globally and be able to compete with people like ABB and Siemens. So I think we are on the right track.

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, if you look in the industry, ABB is 15 plus, Siemens is double digits. Our combined business will be 5 to 6. If we can get from 5 to 6 to 10, we are going to create a bunch of shareholder value here in terms of where we need to go and I think that is our -- that is our game plan in terms of how do you be a more competitive enterprise on a combined basis.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. Just a quick question on Synchrony. Obviously, you are pushing the button today on the roadshow, but once that IPOs, what happens to the accounting for the Retail Funds business? Does that move as an investment or does it qualify for discontinuation?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, no, no. We will continue to account for it in continuing operations and we will account for the public ownership, roughly 15%, as minority interest.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that is very clear. And then just switching to the H, you've got nine units in your order book and I'm just wondering, Jeff, you mentioned at EPG, that's I think roughly 35 under proposal, I'm just wondering how that number has changed.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Go ahead.

STEVE BOLZE: The H, just to follow-up on your question there, Nigel, as we said, we have nine now in the process and our first ones ship next year and the demand is around the world and you see demand also in this high-efficiency segment continuing to move forward. A lot of focus in that area. There are multiple people in the space, but we are happy with our progress and as you heard from Jeff Bornstein, if you look at our gas turbine orders through the first half, we are 41 versus 32 last year. We are making headway towards the framework that we put out a little earlier this year of about 125 for the year.

JEFF IMMELT: How many in the bid cycle?

STEVE BOLZE: In the bid cycle, H, probably north of 45, 50. So there's a lot of activity around the world.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you, good morning. Just a couple kind of deal-related questions. First, just, Steve, or perhaps Jeff Bornstein, but the JV structure and the put structure as it relates to that at Alstom, can you give us a little more color on how that works and how this floor mechanism works?

STEVE BOLZE: Absolutely, Jeff. The mechanics, two different structures, but it's clear on how Alstom gets liquidity and in each case, Alstom would have the right to sell all of its shares in the JVs to GE at a price that would return Alstom's investment, plus an annual accretion in line approximately with our borrowing costs. Additionally, there is an opportunity for Alstom to share in some potential upside based on a predetermined EBITDA multiple. The timing of those puts are slightly different: Grid and Renewables, more in the three to four-year timeframe for the Nuclear and French Steam JV more in the end of year five, six, seven timeframe. But it is clear, we know how it works and pretty straightforward.

JEFF SPRAGUE: If those things go south hard, you still end up making them whole at their investment plus some accretion.

STEVE BOLZE: That's correct in terms of their whole and some slight return as we talked about. But at this point, we maintain operational control. We name the CEO and we know how to get after the synergies.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then I was also just wondering, shifting gears, on Synchrony. I was a little surprised to hear late 2015 is kind of the split-off target given that looks like you are getting this done mid-2014. I would have thought maybe six to nine months of seasoning would have been enough and this would be kind of an early 2015 split. Can you share any thought or philosophy on that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So we are on the timeline we talked about for the IPO. We are talking in the second half of 2015 now. I think just based on the amount of work to get to standalone ready and to get to where we need to be with regulators and get through the approval process, we think that is probably closer to the second half of 2015.

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, we're not going to keep it a day longer than when we get approval to do the split. So it's just really letting it season is all we are trying to just allow for a little timeframe for that.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. So Alstom, back to Alstom, when do we get a full handle on the EPC liability risks, bad project debts and the like, and as the corollary, do you have to wait until the deal closes to communicate that if there is something that could be material that you might have to true-up or top-up with GE funding?

STEVE BOLZE: Why don't I jump in on that one, John? Listen, there's nothing new to report here today. You're talking I think about the turnkey projects that they have. We did public company due diligence, so there is a certain amount of detail that we got exposure to and with that, we've accounted for that in our financial model, but there is always going to be things we find as we go through the process, but I'd say at this point this is a business we know well. We've factored that in and we have some synergies to offset as we go forward. So at this point, we think we've got it covered.

JEFF IMMELT: John, I would just add that and say really a business and an industry that we have been in for 100 years, we've done it once with Alstom so we knew a little bit from 1999. Deals like this come around infrequently, particularly at this kind of valuation, so 4.5 times EBITDA after synergies and a synergy pipeline that adds up to more than $1.2 billion. So there is always a lot of discussion around deals like this, but the overall economics are extremely compelling for investors and right in our sweet spot, vis-a-vis the ability to execute.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Hey, good morning. So just at a high level first, then I have a follow-up on Power & Water and mix. What offsets the Healthcare revision in the framework?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, we generally expect the businesses within the framework that Jeff shared with you in December to be within that framework and --.

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say Aviation is certainly doing better and Oil & Gas is off to a good start for the year and --

JEFF IMMELT: We expect Energy Management to deliver and stuff like that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Across the portfolio, we think we are still within the framework we shared with you.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, and then just on Power & Water, and I guess this kind of goes to the mix question. When you look out to the second half, I think you have -- the Thermal deliveries are going to be up. It looks like Distributed Power, it faces pretty much tougher comps and the orders aren't holding up there. So maybe that is a little bit lower. How much better are advanced gas paths going to be in the second half and is that enough to offset what would seem like ongoing negative mix when you look at Thermal and being up and Distributed Power being down?

STEVE BOLZE: Steve, as we look at advanced gas paths, we've got 19 shipped in the quarter, 36 year-to-date versus 14 last year. So we are clearly on a better path this year on advanced gas paths. My guess is we look at the second half of the year. We're going to see the second half kind of more level-loaded with the first half. So therefore it might be 70-ish maybe, maybe a little more. So that is why when Jeff Bornstein talked about advanced gas paths, we feel a little better, but we do have some -- probably some softness in the Distributed Power area. So that is how we -- kind of how we look at that.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, good morning, everyone. So to date, I think you have announced dispositions of roughly a little over $1 billion. I think you have got a targeted number of $4 billion. I was just wondering if you could give us any update on the timing there. And Jeff, you made a comment earlier that you like where your portfolio is today on Oil & Gas. I was wondering what areas you would be looking at specifically to add across your Industrial portfolio.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, Joe, again, I think we never like to talk about dispositions until we actually see them, but I would say we are on track for the $4 billion and we would expect additional announcements as you look at how the year unfolds, but those things happen as they happen. And on the buy side, look, we always have a list of stuff that we do. I think the question that Scott asked earlier was really more along the lines of Turbomachinery and packaging and things like that. We feel like -- in Oil & Gas -- we feel like we have got a great portfolio in that particular segment of Oil & Gas and I would just circle back to -- the big priority of the team really is the Alstom integration and that is where the main focus is right now.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Jeff, in your opening remarks, you touched on there were some pushouts and you said Wind, Oil & Gas and Subsea. And I was hoping you could quantify a bit as to what the size of those were maybe by geographies, any reasons and is this project timing or customer confidence?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, Deane, I'll give you a few pieces of it. So within Power & Water on Wind, we had 400 or 500 wind units that moved out of the quarter, really just awaiting clarification from the Treasury Department on what constitutes start of construction to be eligible for PTC. And these are projects that involve bank financing and tax equity investors. So very tough to move those projects along until they are absolutely certain that they are going to qualify for the PTC. We expect that clarification to come from the Treasury in the next week or two. And we've seen that clarification and we think it's helpful. So that is one example. That is over $1 billion of orders.

And then in Subsea, we have a couple of big projects that we are hopeful that we'll see here certainly in the second half. As soon as possible would be great. That is well over $1 billion as well.

JEFF IMMELT: Deane, on these, there is I think three big Subsea deals. Two of them have been awarded to us, so it is just a function of getting the final project approval and stuff like that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We are waiting for financial close.

JEFF IMMELT: We are just waiting for financial close to book the order.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Just with Alstom and with Synchrony and also you guys are going to do divestitures, what is the risk that some of their restructuring actions get pushed back with active portfolio reshaping going on, just thinking about management bandwidth this year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Zero.

JEFF IMMELT: Andrew, I just think zero. Our intent is to get to the 75/25 by 2016 and still do the simplification that we've got going right now and the teams are executing along that track.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I would just add, Andrew, as long as we've got a project list that looks like year and a half paybacks, those returns on investment are incredible and we will do every one of them.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thanks. Hey, good morning, thanks for fitting me in. I appreciate the transparency and speed with which you are moving through this. A couple questions here. The first one, just clarification on GE Capital. The $3 billion of dividend, how much special is in there?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We are estimating a $2 billion income dividend and about a $1 billion special.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. And is there any room for movement around that special in your view, up or down?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Not likely.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, all right. And then, Steve, since I have got you on Power Gen, we are looking at the Thermal rate, which is always lumpy and down again this quarter, but what headwinds are you starting to see or anticipating in the future on the Distributed Generation and Rooftop Solar front versus the impact on Power Gen? And you have got energy efficiency, you have got solar finally making inroads. Are you guys thinking about that as a headwind at all to growth in the core area?

STEVE BOLZE: I think it is a great question. I'd say you are seeing the impact of less load growth, electricity load growth because of the Distributed Generation technologies, solar, energy storage, etc. But what I would say is, in aggregate, though, there is still electricity load growth and again, a lot of those technologies still are less than 1% or 2% of the total load on the system and still 70% of all new power generation new equipment purchases in the world are in developing regions. So this is something we have got to look at on a global scale. So overall, I'd say we play in pieces of that and I think you'll see us over time build out the portfolio in spaces, but -- (multiple speakers).

JEFF IMMELT: The DP business is Algeria, Brazil, Thailand. Those aren't solar places. That is where the DP business really goes.

STEVE BOLZE: Right. So I'd say overall it is an opportunity for us and we go from there.

MATT CRIBBINS: Okay, great. We are bumping up against 9:30. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will also be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today. A couple of announcements regarding upcoming investor events. First, on Wednesday, September 10, we will hold our Oil & Gas investor meeting in New York City. On Thursday, October 9, we will hold our Services & Industrial Internet investor meeting in conjunction with the Minds + Machines 2014 conference in New York City. We hope to see you at these events. Finally, our third quarter 2014 earnings webcast will be on Friday, October 17 and as always, we will be available today to take your questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c184 : Joint Ventures | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140720ea7i00231
  


 HD
 Q1  2014  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,776 words
   PD
17 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2014 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Ellen; I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Matt Cribbins, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

MATT CRIBBINS, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Ellen. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release and presentation earlier this morning on our website at www.ge.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein; and our Vice President, Subsea Systems, Rod Christie. We listened to your feedback and thought we'd try something new.

To drive a more strategic discussion on the call, we will be inviting business leaders to participate, to talk about their business, markets, new product introductions, and major initiatives. We have asked Rod to join today to talk about Subsea.

Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Matt, and good morning, everybody. Hey, look: the GE team had a good quarter in a volatile but improving environment. US gets a little bit better every day; Europe is improving; and growth markets continue to expand and will provide growth during the year, even with volatility.

We had strength across most of our portfolio as global infrastructure markets remain solid. We continue to benefit in Energy, Oil & Gas, and Aviation sectors, and we saw some improvement in the demand for credit.

At the same time, we encountered a few headwinds in the quarter. Weather impacted our Appliances business, but improved in March. Transportation was impacted by Mining inventory corrections; and the US healthcare market continued to experience volatility. Some of this improved as the quarter progressed.

Our execution was strong. Industrial segment growth was up 12%, above our 10% goal. Organic growth was up 8%, above our 4% to 7% goal. Margin growth was 50 basis points, and we are on track to meet our goal of 17% margins by 2016.

Our Capital earnings and cash were in line with our expectations for the year. We returned $3.4 billion to investors in dividends and buyback, and announced $2 billion of bolt-on acquisitions.

And finally, we submitted our SEC filing for Synchrony, the RFS spinoff. This is an important step as we head for our 70% Industrial goal.

We delivered $0.33 of operating EPS, up 9%, excluding the impact of NBCU gains in 2013 and restructuring. This is the kind of quarter GE investors should like. The environment was not perfect, but we were able to deliver strong results due to the breadth of our portfolio.

Orders were flat overall. Backlog grew to $245 billion, and orders pricing was up 0.4 points.

While equipment orders can be lumpy, service orders -- things like Aviation spares -- tend to be a good gauge of the underlying economy. And we saw broad strength in our service businesses, with four of six segments up double digits.

Six of nine growth regions grew orders by double digits in the quarter. Equipment orders were down in Aviation and Oil & Gas versus tough comps in 2013; but we have a great backlog and position in each market and feel good about their long-term growth. In Transportation, we see a strengthening market for North American locomotives, and we won a very large order for kits for South Africa.

I would like to point out two other factors on orders. First, we see the pipeline building; so we feel good about growth during the year.

Second, we have grown backlog by $29 billion from the first quarter of 2013, with growth in every segment. This fortifies our ability to hit goals this year and in the future.

The company executed well in the first quarter. Industrial operating profit growth of 12% is a good start to the year.

Organic growth was up 8%. Growth markets continue to provide momentum, with five of nine up double digits and 7% growth overall.

We made great progress in services with Aviation spares up 22%, and 17 Advanced Gas Paths, up from two last year. Equipment revenue grew by 12%.

Our products are winning in the market, with excellent growth in Power, Oil & Gas, and Aviation. For instance, we are well positioned throughout our gas turbine product line, extending to the H turbine, which has more than 61% efficiency and more than 400 megawatts of output.

Our Revolution CT just received FDA approval and should drive positive growth for the year. Europe grew by 14% in the first quarter, so we are starting to get stabilization in that market as well.

Our target is to grow margins this year, and we're off to a good start. This is our fourth consecutive quarter of expansion, with 50 basis points of growth.

We are driving simplification throughout the Company, and our restructuring efforts are paying off. We generated about $250 million of structural costs out of the quarter. And value gap had a positive 50 basis point impact on margins.

We are getting traction with our FastWorks initiative, which is improving R&D efficiency. Mix was a headwind, but our productivity programs more than offset.

Finally, we expect broader business participation in the future. Healthcare, Energy Management, and Appliances & Lighting should have positive margin and operating profit expansion for the rest of 2014, based on improving markets and restructuring.

Our CFOA is off to a good start and on track for the year. We generated $1.7 billion, up from $200 million last year.

The Company has substantial financial strength, with $87 billion of consolidated cash and close to $12 billion at the Parent. As you know, we issued $3 billion of debt in the quarter. GE Capital remains in great shape, with a Tier 1 common ratio of 11.4%.

And meanwhile, commercial paper was at a very low level of $25 billion. The total ENI of $374 billion was down 7%.

We have allocated capital in a disciplined and balanced way. We continue to invest in plant and equipment to grow the Company globally.

Our dividend is up 16% year-over-year. We plan to reduce the float in 2014, and we are on track to reduce share count to 9 billion to 9.5 billion shares by the end of 2015, including the retail spend.

We will continue to do bolt-on acquisitions like the three we announced so far this year. Our target remains $1 billion to $4 billion; but we have gone above on opportunistic deals that have excellent values, strong synergies, fit our growth strategies, and are immediately accretive. For instance, Avio was above our range and accretive to investors.

At the same time we have planned for about $4 billion of dispositions this year.

Now I will turn it over to Rod Christie, who runs our Subsea business, as Matt said earlier. We plan to review an important segment or initiative each quarter. As the year goes on, we plan to cover topics like heavy-duty gas turbine technology, Healthcare and Life Sciences, China, or other important operating initiatives or organic growth opportunities. So now I will turn it over to Rod.

ROD CHRISTIE, VP AND CEO - GE OIL & GAS SUBSEA SYSTEMS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. Starting on the left side of the page, I want to give you a flavor of how we see the long-term prospects for the oil and gas industry before we drill into the Subsea sector specifically.

The forecast is for global oil and gas demand to continue to grow through 2018, with oil mainly driven by the ongoing industrialization in emerging economies and the rise of living standards, while gas emerges across mainly all of the economies as a cleaner fuel source. In addition to the increasing demand, the other dynamic to consider here is well decline rates on existing operations of around 3% to 4% onshore and 6% to 10% offshore. The combination of both these factors makes ongoing investment necessary to develop new reserves and enhance the recovery in existing assets.

Moving to the top right of the page, we see these dynamics driving 4% and 2% CAGRs in production rates for oil and gas, respectively, through 2018. The expectation is for stronger growth in subsea and unconventional production.

Translating all of this into total industry spend, we expect to see continued growth as IOCs, NOCs, and independents work to recover more hydrocarbons from existing assets and bring on new reserves to meet the growing demand.

With respect to the subsea sector, the expectation for long-term development of deepwater reserves is supported by the robust activity we see in drilling and front-end engineering design through the cycle. Given this expectation, our Subsea Systems business is well positioned to serve customers with both technology and life-of-field services across the globe.

Our extensive capabilities enable us to provide everything from discrete components to full subsea production systems. We are also uniquely placed against our competitors in that we can leverage technology from other GE businesses and run joint technology programs specific to the critical need.

To give you a couple examples here, we cooperate with GE's Monitoring and Controls business in the area of subsea integrity management and leverage their sensory and diagnostics technologies specifically developed for our own space. We are also running a joint technology program with GE's Power Conversion business for subsea power and drive. This really enables us to develop value-added solutions under one roof wherever the core competency actually exists inside GE.

Likewise, GE gives us the ability to scale up. As many of you'd be aware, localization is often a mandatory requirement in our industry.

When we move into new geographies, it is not unusual to find other GE businesses are already there. Usually it is either Power & Water or another Oil & Gas business. This means we can leverage their relationships, their knowledge, and potentially their footprint.

Additionally, we have been working with GE's Global Growth & Operations team to accelerate development in countries like Nigeria and Angola, where we can benefit from their high-level relationships and the back-office support to get things up and running very quickly. Today we are present in all the major deepwater basins around the world such as Brazil, sub-Saharan Africa, Asia, and Australia, while still retaining significant capability around both the UK and Norwegian continental shelves.

Our experience in extreme cold water and long step-out capabilities for controls and for power solutions position us well for future activity. A sector that is going to require really no topsides and has the added complexity really of an icebound environment.

Two years ago, a major subsea industry survey took feedback from 135 customers and ranked each supplier against the top priorities of the subsea oil and gas operators. The chart on the left of this page details how GE was rated against our competitors back in 2012.

As you can see, we performed well in the key areas like EHS, reliability, and technology; however, we were mid-pack when it came to on-time delivery. In fact, really none of the suppliers are performing consistently to an acceptable level in this critical requirement.

This is one of the main risks to both the supplier and the customer in this industry. And a significant number of large-scale subsea developments have experienced both schedule and cost overruns.

Given that the timing and carrying costs for initial CapEx outlay on these projects is a key driver in overall returns, we have focused investments to differentiate performance around cycle and on-time delivery. As of today we offer a suite of structured products that offer modular customization to our customers.

Let me expand a little bit on modularization. What that really means is we can provide exactly what a customer wants, and we do it with less engineering and less supply chain risk as we use a standard module to do so.

We have also completed significant process reengineering to drive speed and transparency across our business operations. We have created a global projects COE that interfaces directly to all of our sites and suppliers, and supports our project teams wherever they are operating in the world.

To underpin this, we have also invested in an integrated IT infrastructure that enables us to scale the organization through industry cycles without losing either capability or impacting our operational excellence.

The final piece of this jigsaw really has been the investments we have made in creating new capacity and unlocking latent capacity in a number of our factories. Today, using Lean manufacturing disciplines, we have increased capacity for trees, controls, wellheads, and manifolds. In general, we have been able to realize capacity increases between 30% and 100% in our existing facilities, and have commissioned new capacity in Indonesia and Brazil.

In short, we feel we are very well placed to take on new commitments. Growth in the deepwater oil and gas sector looks strong over the long term, and we feel very confident about our competitiveness with both our existing product lines and the technologies we have in development. The investments we have made in capacity and capability also put us in a great position to support our customers wherever they operate in the world.

Just to give you some context on the evolution of the Subsea Systems business, in 2011 we were executing a handful of small projects and two subsea production EPC projects, the largest of which was around $600 million. Today we are executing eight EPC projects, the largest of which exceeds $1.3 billion.

The programs we have undertaken to structure our products and lean our supply chain and project operations are yielding results in cycle-time reduction and cost reduction. We expect to see further benefits come from these as we drive these deeper into our business.

Just to give you some context here, 1Q revenue we saw a 37% increase year-over-year and a 3X increase in both margin and in rate. On top of this, our global footprint really makes us local and capable in the main deepwater basins today, and GE's reach means we can move quickly and at scale in any of the developing geographies.

Overall, we really feel very good about the fundamentals of this business. And I really have to say that I'm very excited about the way this moves in the future.

So with that, I will pass it over to Jeff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great. Thanks, Rod. I'm going to start with operations in the quarter, then we will move through the segments.

We had continuing operations revenues of $34.2 billion, down 2% from the first quarter of 2013. Industrial sales of $24 billion were up 8%. GE Capital revenues of $10.5 billion were down 8%.

Operating earnings of $3.3 billion were down 18%. And operational earnings per share of $0.33 were down 15%, principally driven by NBCU, as Jeff mentioned earlier.

On the next page, I will take you through more detail on the normalized EPS walk versus last year. Continuing EPS of $0.29 includes the impact of nonoperating pension; and net earnings per share of $0.30 includes the impact of discontinued operations.

We had $12 million benefit in the quarter in discontinued operations with no material impact from WMC. Pending claims for WMC declined to $4.5 billion, reflecting $1.2 billion of resolutions, with reserves declining in line with expectations. New pending claims in the quarter were negligible.

As Jeff said, first-quarter CFOA was $1.7 billion. We had Industrial cash flow of $1.2 billion and received $500 million of dividends from GE Capital.

The GE tax rate for the quarter was 24% and the GE Capital rate was 9%. For the year, we are still expecting the GE rate to be around 20% and the GE Capital rate to be in the single digits.

On the right side you can see the segment results. As Jeff mentioned, performance was mixed by business but overall pretty good, with Industrial segment revenues up 8% and operating profit up 12%.

GE Capital earnings were flat in the quarter on lower assets. I will take you through the dynamics of each of the segments on the pages that follow.

First, on the other items page I will start with the adjusted EPS walk. Last year, as you will recall, we had operating EPS of $0.39 in the first quarter. This included $0.10 of gains and income from NBC that was offset by $0.04 of Industrial restructuring and other items.

We also had a $0.05 gain at GE Capital from the sale of 30 Rock that was offset by other charges as well. That walk gets you to an adjusted operating EPS of $0.33 last year.

This quarter we had $0.03 of Industrial restructuring and other items. Making the same adjustment for 2014 gets you to $0.36; and that is up 9% on an adjusted basis. That is how we are thinking about operating performance in the quarter.

On the right side, as I mentioned, we had $0.03 of charges related to Industrial restructuring and other items as we continue to invest in simplification to improve the Company's cost structure. The spend was broad-based, with projects in every business and Corporate.

We are executing more than 150 projects that average about a year-and-a-half payback. The projects relate to everything from manufacturing footprint reductions, service shop consolidations, SG&A actions, and exiting low-margin product lines, primarily in developed markets.

We are continuing to work through timing of European work council approvals. And on the positive side, some of the projects are coming in below our original cost estimates with no downgrade in benefits.

For the year we still anticipate $1 billion to $1.5 billion of restructuring, with about 60% of that in the first half. We are still planning on delivering more than $1 billion of Industrial's cost-out for the year.

As we told you in November, we expect to have some dispositions in our Industrial portfolio in 2014. We are currently working on a transaction related to a non-core asset that may result in a small gain, likely in the second quarter, potentially in the third quarter.

Now I will take you through each of the segments, starting with Power & Water. Orders of $5.7 billion were up 9%. Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were down 3%, driven by Renewables down 13%. That was partially offset by Distributed Power, which was up 9%; and Thermal was up 3%.

Wind orders totaled 422 turbines versus 584 in the first quarter of 2013. Our view of Wind orders for the year has not changed; we still expect strong growth.

We took orders for 31 gas turbines in the first quarter of this year versus eight a year ago.

Service orders were $3.1 billion, higher by 23%. The growth was primarily driven by PGS, up 32%; up 43% ex-Europe. The business had orders for 17 AGPs versus two a year ago, as well as a large $330 million upgrade order in Japan. Europe continues to be very, very soft.

Backlog in Power & Water continued to grow, with equipment higher by 18% and services by 2% year-over-year. OPI in the quarter was negative 40 basis points, driven by equipment.

Revenue in the quarter of $5.5 billion was up 14%. Equipment revenues were up 41%, driven by Wind shipments of 646 units, 345 units higher than the first quarter of 2013. And Thermal was up 5 gas turbines, shipping 17 versus 12 a year ago.

We shipped all but one wind turbine, associated with a blade quality issue in the fourth quarter.

Service revenues were down 5% as AGP performance was offset by weakness in Europe. Segment operating profit was 24% higher on strong volume and simplification benefits, partly offset by negative mix associated with Wind.

SG&A in the quarter was down 9% year-over-year. The wind blade quality issues in the quarter were negligible. Margins expanded for the quarter 120 basis points.

Next is Oil & Gas. Oil & Gas orders for the quarter of $4.6 billion were down 5%, with equipment orders down 17% and service growth of 11%. Equipment orders were down versus tough comparison to last year, when orders were up 24%.

Subsea equipment was down 62%, principally on timing. As we have commented previously, orders in Oil & Gas tend to be very lumpy on a quarterly basis. And as Rod shared with you, we expect Subsea orders to be up double digits for the total year.

We continued to see good growth in Turbomachinery solutions, up 16% in the quarter, on two large wins in the US LNG space. Downstream Technology was also strong, up 48%.

Service orders of $2.2 billion were higher by 11%, led by Turbomachinery up 22%, and Downstream Technology Solutions up 20%. That was partly offset by M&C, which was down 7%.

Backlog continues to grow in Oil & Gas, with equipment up 15% and services up 4% versus prior year. Orders pricing was better by 140 basis points in the quarter.

Revenue was up 27%; up 18%, ex-Lufkin. And Subsea was up 37%; Turbomachinery up 25%; Downstream Solutions up 24%; and Drilling and Surface was up 13% while M&C was down 4%. We expect M&C to be flat for the total year.

Operating profit was strong in the quarter up 37%; up 28% ex-Lufkin. The growth was driven by volume, value gap, base cost productivity, and the absence of the FX charge we had last year in the first quarter.

This was partly offset by negative mix on lower M&C volume. Our operating profit rate improved 80 basis points in the quarter, both with and without Lufkin.

Turning to the next page on Aviation, just some context here. Air travel continued to grow strongly. Global revenue passenger kilometers grew 6.9% through February, compared to 5.2% a year ago, with a particular strength in the Middle East, Asia, Europe, and China.

Through February, freight growth was up 3.6% versus 1.4% a year ago. That growth was driven by Latin America, Europe, and the Middle East.

Orders in the quarter of $5.5 billion were down 17%, as expected, driven by equipment orders down 38% to $2.4 billion. The first quarter of 2013 we had $1.4 billion of CFM LEAP launch orders and two large China GE90 orders.

Commercial engine backlog ended the quarter at $21 billion. That is 16% higher versus last year. Military equipment orders of $421 million were up 44%, driven by demand for CT7 engines.

Service orders were $3.1 billion, up 10%. Commercial service orders were up 12%, driven by strong commercial spare parts, up 17% to $29.7 million a day. Military service orders were up 18%, driven by spare parts up 19% on strong demand for T700 spares.

Orders pricing was strong at 2.6% in the quarter. Revenue of $5.8 billion was up 14%; up 10% ex-Avio. Equipment revenue was higher by 14% on strong price and shipments of 646 commercial engines versus 596 last year.

We shipped 70 GEnx engines versus 41 a year ago. And military revenues were down 3% on 31 fewer engines in the quarter.

Service revenue, $2.9 billion, was up 14% driven by commercial up 18% and military down 5%. Commercial spare shipments were $28.5 million a day; that was up 22% versus last year.

Operating profit of $1.1 billion was up 19% -- 14% ex-Avio -- on strong value gap and volume. Margin rates improve 90 basis points; 80 basis points ex-Avio. Avio continues to perform very well and overall good execution in the Aviation business in the quarter.

Next on Healthcare, the first quarter in the US was soft. Hospitals and clinics appear to be delaying purchases in response to the ACA.

Patient inflows, outpatient visits, ER, surgeries, procedures were all down 1% to 1.7% in the quarter. Preliminary NEMA data suggest the US market was down single digits, excluding one big VA bulk order from several years ago.

Our NEMA orders were down 2%, so we believe we actually gained share in the quarter, 1 point or 2. As a result of these dynamics, Healthcare's first quarter was softer than we expected.

Orders of $4.2 billion were down 1%, driven by the US, down 4%, offset by continued strength in emerging markets, which were up 10%. China was up 13%; Latin America was up 10%; and the Middle East was up 47%. Europe was also strong, up 4%.

Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were flat. In HCS, emerging market orders were higher by 13%, offset by the US, down 12%. Life Sciences orders were up 1% in the quarter.

Service orders were $1.9 billion. They were down 2% in the quarter.

First-quarter backlog was $16.3 billion, which was up 7% versus prior year. Order pricing was down 1.5%.

Revenues of $4.2 billion were down 2%, with equipment down 2% and services down 3%. Operating profit of $570 million was down 4%, driven by negative value gap, offset by strong base cost management. SG&A in our Healthcare business was down 9% in the quarter.

The business expects the US softness to probably persist in the second quarter, but expects to continue to gain share and deliver earnings growth for the year.

With that, we will move to Transportation. Transportation had a solid execution quarter, given their environment.

In terms of domestic activity, carloads were up 1% in the first quarter, driven by intermodal traffic, which was higher by 3%. Coal volume continues to be soft; it was down 1%. But petroleum products and petroleum were higher at 6.5%.

Orders for the quarter were $2.4 billion. That was up over 100%, led by equipment orders up 4 times.

We had orders for 259 locos and 299 loco kits versus 80 locos last year and 25 kits a year ago. We received a large order in South Africa for 233 kits and had orders for 176 locos in the US.

Service orders were down 18% due to weak mining and no repeat of the large Amtrak signaling order we had in the first quarter of last year. Order price index was flat and backlog grew 6% versus the first quarter of 2013.

Revenues for the quarter were down 14%, as we anticipated. Equipment was down 20% driven by mining off-highway vehicles down 76%, partly offset by locomotives up 23%. We shipped 178 locos versus 143 a year ago.

Service was down 7% on weaker mining parts demand.

Op profit was down 24%. Very strong cost and productivity performance was more than offset by volume and mix. Margins were down 230 basis points in the quarter.

On Energy Management, the business continues to be a work in progress as we made a lot of gains in restructuring and resizing the business around its cost structure and footprint, were offset by sales softness in marine startup execution. Orders were $2.2 billion; that was down 1%.

Digital Energy was up 20% on a large domestic meter order; and Industrial Solutions was up 1%. This was offset by Power Conversion, down 16% with no repeat of first-quarter 2013 Brazilian drillship orders we took.

The business did continue to build backlog in all its segments, with the total up 17% year-over-year to $4.9 billion. Revenue was down 4% in the quarter, with Digital Energy down 20%; Industrial Solutions down 3%; and Power Conversion down 2%.

Operating profit was $5 million in the quarter. That is down from $15 million a year ago.

Despite the poor performance, we continue to get restructuring benefits and reduce SG&A cost. This was more than offset by negative volume and execution challenges. We expect this business to improve its results throughout the year, particularly in the second half.

Appliances & Lighting. Appliances & Lighting had a challenging quarter as well.

Appliance revenues were down 3%. The Appliance market was down 4% in February, but it was much stronger in March to end the quarter flat year-over-year. Housing starts were soft, with single-family down 8%, offset by multifamily strength of up 9%.

Lighting revenue was down 4%. Our traditional channels in Lighting were down 9%, partially offset by LED growth, up 33%.

Segment profit of $53 million was down 33% in the quarter. Appliance op profit was down 2%, with higher prices offset by lower volume and negative productivity. Lighting op profit was down 44%, driven by strong material deflation, more than offset by productivity, price, and foreign exchange.

For both businesses, the last few weeks in March and the first week of April were much stronger. We expect them to be back on track in the second quarter.

Next I will cover GE Capital. Revenue of $10.5 billion was down 8%, primarily from nonrepeat of the 30 Rock sale last year.

Assets were down 3% or $18 billion year-over-year. Net income of $1.9 billion was flat to prior year, as lower losses and impairments offset reduced gains, lower earning assets, and tax benefits.

ENI ended the quarter at $374 billion, and was down $28 billion or 7% from last year and down $7 billion sequentially. Non-core ENI was down 16% to $52 billion versus last year.

Net interest margins decreased 11 basis points from 2013 to 4.9%, as a slight improvement in business margins was offset by the cost from carrying higher levels of cash.

GE Capital's liquidity and capital levels continue to get stronger. We ended the quarter with $75 billion of cash and reduced our commercial paper borrowings to $25 billion in the first quarter; that is 9 months ahead of our year-end target.

Our Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel 1 basis improved 23 basis points sequentially and 32 basis points year-over-year to end at 11.4%.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue to be stable. I will walk through the segment performances.

The Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended the quarter with $175 billion of assets, flat to last year. On-book core volume was $8 billion, down 2%, as we continue to stay disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles with continued excess liquidity in the market.

New business returns remain reasonably strong at about 1.8% ROI. Earnings of $564 million were up 42%, as a result of not repeating a specific impairment we had last year in the first quarter, as well as from asset sales.

On Consumer, the Consumer segment ended the quarter with $132 billion of assets, down 3% from last year, but were up 8% in North American Retail Finance business. Earnings of $786 million were up 47% as a result of not repeating $300 million impact from the reserve modeling changes we implemented in the first quarter of 2013.

North American Retail Finance earned $590 million in the quarter. That is up 54%; again, largely driven by not repeating the reserving changes and on strong asset growth of 8% year-over-year.

Real Estate had another solid quarter. Assets at $38 billion were down 11% versus prior year and down $1 billion sequentially.

The equity book is down 29% from a year ago to $13 billion. Net income of $239 million was down 65%, primarily from not repeating the 30 Rock gain.

In the current quarter we sold 165 properties with a book value of $1 billion for about $117 million in gains. The debt business earned $120 million in the quarter and originated almost $2 billion of volume at attractive ROIs.

In terms of verticals, GECAS earned $352 million, up 1%, as higher core income offset the impact of lower assets, which were down 8%. The new volume was $1.5 billion, 36% higher year-over-year, with very attractive returns, north of 3% ROIs. We ended the quarter with zero aircraft on the ground.

EFS had a solid quarter, with earnings up 84% to $153 million, driven by strong core income and gains, partially offset by impairments. So the team continues to perform well here; and as we look forward to the second quarter we expect the run rate for GE Capital to be around $1.8 billion of earnings.

With that, I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Jeff, thanks. Finally on the framework, look: we are reaffirming the framework for the year. We feel good, really, about our progress on the Industrial side. And we think what you saw in the first quarter in terms of organic growth, solid organic growth, and good margin expansion should continue in the second quarter and throughout the year.

Capital is on track for its plan, and CFOA remains on track as well with the framework. There is a lot going on in Corporate, and you understand our goals for restructuring. We will give you frequent updates on our progress.

And, look, with underlying EPS up 9% in the quarter and strong Industrial segment profit growth, we think we are off to a good start. So, Matt, let me turn it back over to you and let's take some questions.

MATT CRIBBINS: Yes. Thanks, Jeff, Jeff, and Rod. Ellen, why don't we open it up for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. 8% core growth is a pretty big number. How do you think about the sustainability of those levels? It's probably about 2X the sector overall.

And then I want to ask a follow-up on margins. But let's just talk about core growth first.

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, you want to start?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. Listen, I think we are very happy with the level of growth in the quarter. It reflects a lot of the order activity we had in 2013.

As we said, the short-cycle businesses were definitely impacted by weather in the first quarter; and we expect Industrial Solutions, Appliances & Lighting to get better as we move into the second quarter of the year.

We are still on framework. We think -- we expect organic growth for the year to be between 4% and 7%. And I think we are pleased that we are off to a strong start here.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, I would just add, I think Wind always adds a little bit of noise, plus or minus, around each quarter. It was more on the plus side this quarter.

Like I said at the outlook meeting in December, we have an internal plan that adds up to more than the range. And that is how we run the businesses, and that's -- I think we still believe in the framework for the year, but we have an internal plan that adds up to more than that.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. The 50 bps of margins, just back of the envelope, 8% core growth should get you there already. But you also talked about having value gap and cost-out.

Is there any way to parse out the 50 bps and how you guys think about it via fixed-cost coverage from the volume leverage and the cost-out? How (technical difficulty) to break down to the 50 bps?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, yes. Mix was a bit of a headwind for us in the quarter, more than 100 basis points in the quarter. And that is the strength in Wind; the strength you heard Rod talk about, with 37% sales growth in Subsea, while M%C volume was down 7%.

So mix for us in the quarter was about 100 to 120 basis points of headwind. And that was offset with strong value gap, a little bit of favorability in R&D, but principally by simplification. We had 160 basis points of favorability in structural cost and getting at -- delivering on both the structural cost initiative and delivering on the restructuring investments we have made.

That was partially offset by base cost inflation, that generally reflects increases in salary. So I think we feel very good about the construct in the quarter.

It's more or less how we thought about the year and what we described to you at year-end. We know that we are going to grow equipment and revenue faster than services this year, and so mix will be an item for the year. We have to deliver on simplification, overcome that, and grow margins.

SCOTT DAVIS: That's helpful. Just a quick clarification, guys. I haven't heard you mention the 8 series turbine in a long time. Do you actually have a commercially viable product at this point?

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, yes. No, I think, Scott, this is -- we've gotten a couple commitments and we're in the process of rolling that out as we speak. So we think this is going to be a great product at really a good time.

SCOTT DAVIS: Perfect. Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hey, Jeff, I was hoping you could expand on your comments on the bolt-on acquisition outlook. You all have been operating on a self-imposed investor-friendly range of -- it was $1 billion to $3 billion and then got inched up for Avio, $1 billion to $4 billion. And you are clearly signaling a willingness to go a bit higher than that for the right acquisition.

That's the same language you used when you -- just before you got Avio. So maybe you could expand for us; how much higher above $4 billion? What kind of applications or markets look interesting? It likely sounds like you've got something close.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I wouldn't read too much into it, Deane, other than this is the way we answer the question typically, from a standpoint of -- we do the vast majority of our acquisitions in that range. People ask: if you saw something that was strategic, added to the growth rate, bolt-on well-priced, accretive, would you go above that?

And clearly when we did Avio, that was $4.2 billion, and we had $1 billion to $3 billion type of range. So it is typically the way we answer the question and -- in investor meetings and at the outlook meeting and things like that.

So again, I think we have discipline on capital allocation. We are committed to dividend growth, the buyback that we talked about.

But if we saw unique value in the marketplace, like we did with Avio, we would do transactions like that.

DEANE DRAY: Great. That makes lots of sense. Then since we have Rod on the call today, I would love to hear from you about -- if you could frame for us how much of the portfolio you have in place today.

The whole idea that GE was able to take a lot of the proceeds from NBC and very quickly add some strategic assets into Oil & Gas and then you would stop and see: how is the portfolio? Where are the gaps?

From your perspective, how much of your portfolio do you have today in order to be effective? Are you half? Do you have three-quarters?

I am not asking you specific gaps. But maybe just frame for us how complete the portfolio is.

ROD CHRISTIE: Sure. I think when I look at the portfolio that we have today for Subsea, we feel very good about it. We can compete pretty much anywhere that we choose to.

I think what you have seen over the last six months around us moving more into the subsea power and processing really gives you an idea of the breadth that we can bring from GE broadly. So Power Conversion, turbomachinery, water, realize it's a step into those spaces.

So at this point in time I feel very good about where we are. And anything going forward is really a discussion about internal versus external, with a bit more scale. So it's really about timing.

So very similar to what Jeff has talked about with -- if we see something that looks very attractive to us then potentially. But we don't feel like there is any major miss at this point in time.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning. Can you maybe just talk about -- you talked about the 50 bps continuing throughout the year. Anything you guys have -- I guess every company has become kind of seasonal, with bigger quarters in the back half of the year.

Anything lumpy in the second quarter that we need to be aware of -- whether it's timing of some of these Advanced Gas Path stuff or Wind -- that we have to consider when thinking about the second quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't think so, Steve. I don't think Jeff said he was carrying the 50 basis points all year. But (laughter) thank you for that.

We will have slightly higher restructuring charges in the second quarter. I said we are still on track for the $1 billion to $1.5 billion; and we are going to spend 60% of that spend in the first half of the year. So the second quarter will be a little bit bigger than the first quarter.

We will ship more GEnx engines in the second quarter than we shipped in the first quarter. But other than that, not a lot of -- I did mention that we are working on one disposition; not sure whether that is going to be second or third quarter yet, quite yet; but not that big a deal.

So other than that, I don't have a lot of other items to call out for you.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then just on the organic growth calc, can we get the contribution from the deals and then ForEx -- or the negative from ForEx -- for the quarter? Total deals, revenue contribution, and then ForEx.

I know they are in the back of the supplement or whatever, or in the press release. But just the data.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, sure, Steve. Reported revenue up 8%. Acquisitions added 2 points. Dispositions were -- had a 1.4 point impact.

And then foreign exchange was 0.5 point. And that is how you go from 8% to 8%.

STEVE TUSA: Okay.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So 2 --

STEVE TUSA: All right. That's great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a question on the Industrial balance sheet, I guess dovetailing with maybe opening the aperture a little bit on deals. You did do the $3 billion debt raise on the Industrial balance sheet.

How would you size that relative to the capacity that you have? You kind of teased us a little bit in December with some juice there. Is $3 billion the number, or is it something larger than that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: The $3 billion was in the context of the capital allocation plan that we put together for 2014. We saw the first quarter where markets were very opportunistic; we issued the $3 billion; we were immensely oversubscribed and were very pleased with the rates that we took the $3 billion at -- well inside, on an after-tax basis, our dividend yield.

But that is how we size it within the context of our capital allocation game plan for the year. We are constantly reevaluating the capital allocation game plan with the team and the Board, and we will continue to do that.

JEFF SPRAGUE: But that is roughly the comfortable number relative to the commitments, cross-commitments to capital and everything?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, no. It's the relevant comfortable number within the context of the capital allocation plan we pulled together for the year.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. Then, can you just size for us the gains that you had in CLL and Energy Financial Services?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. So CLL, we did sell about 18,000 boxcars per diems, meaning daily rental boxcars in the quarter. That was worth a little north of $100 million.

We did sell some private equity investments that we do reasonably routinely; and that's a little bit of Volcker driven in the first quarter. That was a much smaller gain.

Then Energy Finance, it's pretty routine for us. We had about, I don't know, $150 million of gains associated with properties that we sold in Energy Finance in the first quarter.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Morning, guys. Jeff, could we flesh out a little bit of the playbook for Energy, the Energy Management business?

It looks like you guys made a leadership change there. How are you thinking about really just the portfolio?

And maybe as, Jeff Bornstein, you've gotten into further the restructuring, how that maybe complements that segment or your focus on it. Just something that might provide us a little bit more color.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, you know, John, here is the way I would look at it. First from a technical standpoint, there are pieces of the Energy Management business that are great fits for the rest of the Company, like Power Conversion. As Rod said, that is a great complement to Oil & Gas and some of the other things we are doing.

So technically, these are industries we understand and can compete in. Our relevant competitors have margin rates that are 10%-plus. Some of that is scale and some of that is our own complexity.

What Jeff Bornstein said today is that we are committed to restructure, and that is going to provide some big margin lift in that business. And then I just think we can execute better.

Mark Begor is a guy that is well known inside the company of being a great recruiter and an extremely experienced operator, turnaround guy, and he is in place. And we are hiring people from the industry.

My intent is to run this business and make it better and make it accretive to investors and drive earnings in it. Could there be a couple segments in there that aren't long-term fits for GE? Could be.

We will sort that out and be very tough-minded about it. But this segment can do better than what you are seeing right now.

And that is our commitment to you, is to make it better, both from a cost standpoint and from a market standpoint.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Just on that front, I would just add that they actually -- you can't see it in the results yet. It is getting eaten up in operations.

But they are making progress in restructuring. We had close to $25 million of benefits in restructuring in the first quarter, and we expect that to accelerate throughout the year.

There is some progress here. Our manufacturing delinquencies are down 50% versus year-end, and so we are making progress.

I understand, completely understand, you can't see it in results yet. But our expectations are this business is going to improve dramatically from an operating earnings perspective over the balance of the year.

JOHN INCH: Okay. That was my other part of the other question. So sequential improvement; and it sounds like, Jeff Immelt, there is no reason this business can't be running at double-digit margins. Is that fair?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, if everybody -- I think, John, everybody else -- unlike our other businesses where our margins are ahead of our peers, this is one where we trail our peers and we can do better.

JOHN INCH: Can I just ask about the Oil & Gas business for a second? There is a broad-level concern in the industry about flattish CapEx budgets for the integrateds and obviously just the global economy is still not particularly helpful; price of oil doesn't seem to be going anywhere.

Maybe you could provide a little bit more color, given that you featured Oil & Gas on the call. How does that context of these big integrated companies with flat if not even maybe declining CapEx budgets, how does that dovetail with your own business? And why is your own business either more or less impervious to that?

JEFF IMMELT: Rod, why don't you take a crack?

ROD CHRISTIE: Sure. I think -- and I am going to talk specifically around what I am seeing in Subsea today. Really what I see is a lot more front-end engagement.

So the customers that I am talking to aren't really looking at dialing back the number of projects. They are looking at: how do they get better capital efficiency?

So we see more front-end engagement around technology, the selection of that technology configuration. And how can we deploy with less risk, shorter cycle, and potentially at a lower cost?

So in many cases, what I talked about, with that structuring, our product really plays to that. We have taken cycle out, which obviously means a shorter carrying period for any capital investment in the Subsea area, from my perspective.

So I think most of the customers are looking to continue to drive as many of the projects as they can. It is making it much easier for us, from a point of view of actually early engagement, early dialogue, early engineering so we can take more risk out.

JEFF IMMELT: John, can I -- I would add to that the reinforcement of the way we have built our Oil & Gas business, by really investing in very specific segments that had faster growth rates than the industry itself. So things like Subsea, Turbomachinery, in the LNG train, some of our downstream technologies. We really are in the places where there is going to be a lot of capital continued to be spent.

JOHN INCH: Okay. So looking at Shell's CapEx deployment is not really the correct proxy, in other words, is what you are saying?

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly. Yes.

JOHN INCH: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks. I just had a couple of questions on the margin bridge. I think, firstly, value gap was maybe what, about a $100 million tailwind in Q1. Just wanted to check that.

And back in January you talked about a $200 million tailwind for the year in value gap. Is that still the case? Or have you updated those assumptions?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. No, I think that is what we guided at year-end, that we expected the value gap for the year to be $100 million to $200 million. In the quarter, you're not too far off the mark here in terms of value gap.

I think what you got to bear in mind is within our value gap this quarter Power & Water was negative but not extraordinarily negative. And we expect price, particularly in Thermal to be much tougher as we work through the backlog for the balance of the year.

So you are correct. The framework was up to $200 million, and you're not far off the mark on the impact in the quarter.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay. Then just on the mix effect, can you just remind us, I guess, what the view is now on wind deliveries for the year and how much more those are ramping up in the back half?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. No change on the framework that I gave you at year-end on Wind deliveries. I said that we would do about 3,000 units and that is still what we expect to do.

In terms of first half/second half it is a little bit heavier weighted to the second half of the year. We will do, I don't know, about 1,800 of those 3,000 in the third and fourth quarter.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Thanks. Lastly, just quickly, I guess for Jeff Immelt. On the divestments in Industrial, you talked a little bit about that in the slides, and also in the annual report there was some kind of a commitment or comment around targeting a minimum 10% margin for the Industrial businesses.

I just wondered what -- was that equipment plus service combined, and what the time frame for that 10% minimum threshold was? Because I guess you have some businesses that have never been at 10%.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Julian, what I would focus on is the $4 billion number. I think it's our expectation that we are more active on the divestiture front this year; and kind of leave it at that.

We continue to be tough-minded around the portfolio, and I would expect our divestitures to be a little bit more active this year than they were last.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Thanks and good morning, everybody. Hey, just, Rod, while I've got you here -- and I really appreciate the focus in on the business unit during the call. I guess one of the primary debates around Subsea is that production tree order trend starting to rise again in 2015.

You addressed your mix benefit. But this emerging capital discipline by the majors, I guess, is a real question of, even in those more attractive subsegments, to what extent do you think that risks the growth? And to what extent also are you seeing the outlook for production tree pricing deteriorate in any way?

ROD CHRISTIE: If you look at the forecast this year for trees, overall globally it is down. But you have to look at the mix between Brazil and the rest of the world.

Brazil was a large buy for -- or a large commitment made for trees in 2013. So the rest of world demand actually increases slightly year-over-year; and then you see the total demand back up again, or forecast to go back up again in 2015.

The other thing that you really see is the projects have got larger, so things have got lumpier. You look at it in total number of projects that are going for development into the future, there is less projects but more tree count per project.

So I think again the early engagement pre-feed activities and feed activities are really going to be critical to driving some of the efficiency in this area from capital deployment.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And the pricing? Outlook for pricing?

ROD CHRISTIE: I think we still feel that pricing -- the demand for the future is still increasing. So it's really about delivery cycle at this point in time.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. On Healthcare, the pricing in Healthcare. I guess, Jeff, how should we think about this? Do you see this as any kind of structural change in the industry?

Is this a function in the Americas, North America, of the transition we are all going through in hospitals? And can you maybe give us some color on how we should think about this?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, Steve, I think it's a good question. I would say first, if you look outside the US, the markets are all normal, with Europe bouncing back and the growth markets still pretty strong. I think it is too soon to say on just the impact of the Affordable Care Act. There is just so damn much going on in the US healthcare market right now.

We are thinking about the next couple years as being flat to up slightly, so we are not really thinking much about robust growth. And more industry consolidation of hospital systems, more integration between insurers and hospitals; so there is just a ton going on in the industry.

At the same time, when you launch a new product like the Revolution CT, like we are launching in the second quarter, it's going to build a huge backlog. It is going to have positive growth.

So with all the stuff that is going on in the industry, when you have new technology you still can differentiate yourself and you still get good growth and good margin. So I think we are just going to wait and see and watch how the industry evolves.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Can I just sneak one in for Jeff Bornstein? Or maybe it is two, I suppose.

This tax rate that we got this quarter, should we think about that as more normalized now? And also were the orders -- have those Algerian orders come through yet in the official order numbers?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so the tax rate, I think what I said was we still expect the Industrial tax rate to be about 20% and we still expect the GE Capital tax rate to be single digits in the year. So I don't think our view of taxes has changed at all for the total year.

The Algerian units on the mega-deal are in our orders book.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Steve, if you look at heavy-duty gas turbine orders, I think we said in December, what, 125 or something like that?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: I think we are tracking at least to that. This is a slightly improving market is what I would say, broadly speaking.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I want to clean one thing up before we move on to the next question. On Energy Finance, I think Jeff Sprague asked me on gains in Energy Finance.

I think I said $150 million. It was $120 million.

That is about $60 million higher year-over-year. That was partly offset by about $100 million of increased higher impairments this year versus last year. So I just want to make sure that is clear.

MATT CRIBBINS: Great. We know everyone has a busy morning. Ellen, why don't we take one more question?

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning and thanks for fitting me in. Jeff, you mentioned the H frame, which is obviously a very important product. You mentioned two commitments. Were they US commitments?

And then dovetailing on the back of your comments about a gradually improving market, what are you seeing in the US right now in terms of the front-log for 2015 and 2016?

JEFF IMMELT: The answer I think to the first question is no. And the answer to the second question I think is just slow improvement in the US, starting with peakers; and we haven't seen big demand for baseload units yet.

But a ton more interest in the US than we have seen in the last few years is the way I would describe it, Nigel.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Okay, great. Moving on to GECAS, assets are down by about 10% from early last year. I am wondering; what do you think is the right level for assets in GECAS? Is there a longer tail of decapitalization within GECAS going forward?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: The GECAS business, order of magnitude, is roughly the size of, in the context of GE Capital and the Company, that it is probably going to be long-term, plus or minus. They will continue to originate. They will continue to grow.

I talked about their volume in the first quarter being very strong year-over-year, at very attractive returns. So they will continue to be very active and write new business.

At the same time, they will continue to prune the portfolio they have, and that allows them -- creates the capacity for them to continue to be in the market and write volume. Assets year-over-year I think are flat for GECAS.

NIGEL COE: I think they are down 8% year-over-year, but I can check that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: (inaudible - microphone inaccessible)

NIGEL COE: Then just, Jeff, on the -- you mentioned $1.8 billion run rate for GE Capital for the quarter going forward. That is actually slightly above the $7 billion placeholder for the year.

Do you think there is more of an upside bias to that $7 billion at this stage?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, I think we are still in that $7 billion framework. You've got a number of items to go here where we still plan on doing the initial IPO of Retail, so you'll lose 20% of those earnings; we will still continue to invest in that business to create the stand-alone capability around risk and governance. So that will come at some cost.

We will still do the GECAS buy impairments here in the third quarter. So I think that we are still focused on the $7 billion framework that Keith shared with you in November.

NIGEL COE: Understood. Thank you very much.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, thanks. Thanks, everybody.

MATT CRIBBINS: Thank you. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital later today.

I have some announcements regarding upcoming investor events. Next Wednesday, April 23, is our 2014 Annual Shareowners Meeting in Chicago. We hope to see you there.

On Wednesday, May 21, Jeff Immelt will present at the 2014 EPG conference. And, finally, our second-quarter 2014 earnings webcast will be on Friday, July 18.

As always, we will be available today to take questions. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140419ea4h002gy
  


 HD
 Q4  2013  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,127 words
   PD
17 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions) My name is Frances and I will be your conference coordinator today.

   TD
(Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Frances. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's fourth-quarter and total-year 2013 earnings webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release and the presentation earlier this morning. Slides are available on our website, www.ge.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein, and our new IR leader, Matt Cribbins.

Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Trevor, and good morning, everybody. Hey, look; the Company had a good fourth quarter in a generally improving environment. Orders grew by 8% and our backlog is an all-time high at $244 billion.

Growth market orders grew by 13% and the US expanded by 8%, and Europe grew by 3%. So pretty broad-based growth, and Industrial organic growth was up 5% for the quarter.

We earned $0.53 per share in the quarter, up 20%. Our Industrial earnings growth was up 12%, with six of seven segments growing. Capital earned $2.5 billion, including some tax efficient gains as we exited global platforms.

We were able to pull forward $0.05 of Industrial restructuring, partially offset by $0.03 of gains. So this is more than we expected and will give us some more cost-out in 2014.

We continue to run the Company well. Margins grew by 100 basis points in the quarter and 60 basis points for the year. This actually reflects 66 basis points before the impact of acquisitions.

Our value gap was exceptionally strong, and we reduced structural cost by $1.6 billion for the year. We generated $17.4 billion of CFOA and end the year with $89 billion of consolidated cash.

We allocated the cash in a value-creating way. We returned $18.2 billion through dividends and buyback. We completed $9 billion of M&A, primarily in Oil & Gas and Aviation, and these businesses are delivering for investors.

So overall, this was a good quarter for GE and positions us to deliver in 2014 and beyond.

Our orders for the quarter were about $31 billion, a record. We also ended the year with a record high backlog of $244 billion.

We had growth in both equipment and services. There was real strength in Power & Water. We ended the year with 125 orders for heavy-duty gas turbines. Power Gen Services grew by 9%, which was actually 16% excluding Europe.

Regionally, our gains were broad-based. The US continued to rebound, growing 8%. For the total year, orders grew by 8% and backlog grew by $34 billion.

Aviation orders reflect our record backlog for equipment. But at the same time, Aviation services continues to be very strong.

Orders for Oil & Gas equipment are always lumpy, but orders year-to-date are up 8%. And we are encouraged by the orders price performance in Oil & Gas.

We built a big backlog in Energy Management which should help in 2014. And Transportation is being impacted by a weak mining market.

Orders pricing was in line with our expectations. We saw pricing pressure in heavy-duty gas turbines, mainly based on regional mix. But on balance we expect to continue to drive a positive value gap in 2014.

Our growth initiatives continue to deliver results. Growth market revenue was up 10% in the quarter.

Growth was pretty broad-based. Six of nine regions were up by double digits, and we continue to build out our growth market presence.

For service, 6% revenue growth was the best quarterly result in 2013. Highlights include 54 Advanced Gas Paths; Aviation spares grew by 17%; Oil & Gas services grew by 17%. We launched another 14 Predictivity offerings in the fourth quarter, and our dollars per installed base grew by 5% in the quarter.

We continue to win in the market. The Dubai Airshow resulted in $40 billion of wins. The Revolution CT is rapidly becoming the industry standard. We are the only locomotive competitor with both a Tier 4 diesel and an LNG offering in test, and we continue to build out service technology around Oil & Gas installed base.

At our Outlook Meeting we set a target of 4% to 7% organic growth for 2014. And with a huge backlog and strong growth initiatives, that looks achievable.

For margins, we have a pretty good story on margins, growing 100 basis points in the quarter. We finished the year up 66 basis points on an organic basis. We had an internal plan that was well above 70 basis points, but were impacted by supply chain quality issues in Wind and some Energy Management project delays.

By business, we had positive operating leverage year-over-year and margin expansion in six of seven businesses. Big drivers of our margin expansion were simplification and value gap. In 2013, we achieved $1.6 billion of simplification benefits, and our value gap was about $900 million.

In addition, we were able to do more fourth-quarter restructuring, which will fortify our margin goals in 2014.

One other note. We had no gains in the fourth quarter of 2013 versus some gains in the fourth quarter of 2012. So this really was solid performance.

We are getting fairly consistent margin performance across the Company. And with margins expanding 110 basis points in the second half, we really feel like we have good momentum going into 2014.

So on to 2014. We plan to grow margins in 2014, in line with our goal to exceed 17% by 2016. We pulled forward more restructuring in 2013 than we originally planned.

In the fourth quarter of 2013, we executed $0.05 per share of projects that have an 18-month payback. This was partially offset by $0.03 of gains.

We finished 2013 with $1.6 billion of structural cost-out. Because of our fourth-quarter restructuring we are increasing our cost-out goals for 2014.

At the Outlook Meeting we said we would achieve about $1 billion of cost-out. We are now targeting to get more than $1 billion.

We expect our SG&A as a percentage of revenue to be about 14% in 2014. Key margin drivers will again be value gap and simplification.

We expect R&D to be better, and mix will be negative as our product sales are growing faster than service. But our margin plans have been fortified, and this should be a tailwind for GE going into 2014.

Look, we ended the quarter with significant balance sheet strength. Our total CFOA was about $17.5 billion for the year, consistent with expectations. We had a good quarter in capital efficiency and working capital.

On the GE Capital side, we have substantial liquidity. Our commercial paper fell below $30 billion for the first time in many, many years.

We ended the year with $89 billion of consolidated cash and about $14 billion at the Parent. We are implementing our plans of value creation and opportunistic and balanced capital allocation.

In 2013 we returned $18.2 billion to investors through dividends and buyback. And we announced a 16% increase in our dividend at year-end; and like I said earlier, we completed $9 billion of acquisitions.

As I said at the Outlook Meeting, we plan to work capital efficiency hard in 2014, and our capital allocation will create value for our investors. So with that, let me turn it over to Jeff to talk about really the operations and performance of the businesses. Jeff?

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great. Thank you. I will start with consolidated results.

We had continuing operations revenue of $40.4 billion, reported up 3% in the quarter. Industrial sales of $28.8 billion were up 6%, and GE Capital revenues were $11.1 billion, down 5%.

Operating earnings of $5.4 billion were up 16%. Operating earnings per share of $0.53 were up 20%.

Continuing EPS of $0.49, which includes the impact of nonoperating pension. The net earnings per share of $0.41 includes the impact of discontinued operations, which I will cover on the next page.

As Jeff said, total year CFOA was $14.3 billion. When you add back the $3.2 billion of NBC tax impact, you get to $17.5 billion. We had solid Industrial performance here, with the variance of 2012 driven by the NBCU-related taxes, as I mentioned.

We received $2 billion of dividends from GE Capital in the quarter. The GE tax rate for the quarter was 19%, which is in line with the framework we provided earlier in the year; and the total year rate was also 19%.

The GE Capital tax rate was significantly negative in the fourth quarter, primarily driven by the tax-efficient sale of our Swiss platform, which resulted in about $1 billion of tax benefits in the quarter. This drove a negative 77% tax rate in the quarter; and for the year, GE Capital's tax rate was a negative 14%.

On the right side you can see the segment results, with total Industrial segment profit up 12%, and six of seven businesses contributing to earnings growth. GE Capital earnings also grew in the quarter, up 38%.

I will take you through the dynamics of each of the segments on the following pages. But overall, a reasonably strong quarter.

On the Other Items page, first we had $0.03 of gains related to Industrial transactions. We disposed of Air Filtration within our Power & Water business, the Vital Signs business within HealthCare, and the advanced sensors business within Oil & Gas. All three of these gains were booked in Corporate.

We had $0.05 of charges in the quarter related to restructuring and other items. This was about $0.02 higher than we had planned, as we continue invest in restructuring to right-size the Industrial cost structure to position the Company for 2014 and beyond.

In discontinued operations we had $787 million after-tax impact in the quarter, really driven by four items. First, we booked $442 million of additional reserves on Grey Zone. While we saw claims decline in the third quarter, claims in the fourth quarter were above our model expectations; so we revised our assumption to reflect a further slowing in overall claims reduction rate. We ended the quarter with $859 million in reserves.

At WMC, pending claims declined from $6.3 billion in the third quarter, $5.6 billion at the end of the year, as the team settled about $1 billion of pending claims. That was partially offset by new pending claims of $281 million.

We recorded a $116 million charge, resulting in the total reserve balance at the end of the year of $800 million. That is flat with where we ended the third quarter.

Also in the quarter, we signed an agreement to sell our consumer bank in Russia, resulting in a $170 million loss in discontinued ops, principally FX-related. We expect to complete the transaction the first quarter, and this will lower our ENI by almost $1 billion.

Lastly, we had a disc op tax adjustment related to plastics of $65 million on a disallowment of interest deductions from years previous.

So on an operating basis, we had $0.02 higher Industrial restructuring versus gains, which was about $300 million on a pretax basis. It is the main driver of our higher Corporate expense in the quarter.

Now I will go through each of the segments, starting with Power & Water. Orders of $10.3 billion were up 44%, our largest orders quarter in the last five years. Excluding Europe, orders were actually up 56%.

Equipment orders of $6.4 billion were up 81%, driven by Thermal and Wind. Thermal orders were up 3 times, driven by the Algerian deal and strength in Saudi and Latin America. Excluding Algeria, Thermal orders were still up over 100%.

We had orders for 65 gas turbines in the fourth quarter versus 26 last year, and that brought the total year to 124 units on order. Backlog for Thermal was up 70% for the year.

Wind orders were up 63%. We had orders for 779 Wind turbines versus 412 in the fourth quarter of 2012, principally driven by US demand. The Wind backlog was up 43% for the year.

Service orders of $3.9 billion were up 8%, primarily driven by PGS, up 9%, and up 16% ex-Europe. And we were very strong on AGPs; we did 25 AGPs in the quarter versus 6 in the previous year.

Total orders price was lower as Jeff said, at 3%, with Thermal down 4% and Wind down 5%. Revenue in the quarter was $7.7 billion; that was flat with last year.

Thermal revenue was down 11% as we shipped 28 gas turbines versus 32 in the fourth quarter of 2012. That was partly offset by Wind, up 6%, with shipment of 875 turbines versus 722 a year ago.

We recognized revenue on 200 fewer Wind turbines than we planned, primarily due to a supply chain quality issue and project delays and customer delays. The impact on the quarter was approximately $500 million of revenue and, including the reserves for the quality issues, about $100 million of margin.

As we worked through the quarter here we had some blade issues in November. The team was all over it. We spent an enormous amount of time within the supply chain understanding the blade issue.

We spent most of December understanding what the fleet impact would be and what the manufacturing anomaly associated with -- and it was really not until around Christmas time that we realized that we probably weren't going to rev-rec a lot of these turbines that potentially could have an issue with the blade.

Service revenues of $3.8 billion were up 3%, up 8% ex-Europe.

On segment profit, $1.9 billion; was up 9%, driven primarily by value gap. The Power & Water team has also done an exceptional job on costs, with SG&A in the quarter down 18% and down 13% for the year. Margins improved 190 basis points year-over-year in the fourth quarter.

Overall, based on 2013 orders, we are seeing a gradual improvement in heavy-duty gas turbine. And Wind will also have a stronger year in 2014.

With these higher deliveries coupled with simplification benefits, we expect Power & Water to grow earnings in 2014. Based on our backlog we do expect deliveries to ramp through the year, similar to 2013.

Additionally, we are continuing to work through the blade supply issues in Wind, and it could have a minor impact on the fourth quarter. But it in no way changes our outlook for 2014 for the business or the Wind business.

Next is Oil & Gas. Orders of $5.5 billion were down 2%, with equipment orders down 8%. Subsea orders were down 10%, and Drilling and Surface was down 20% on tough comparisons to last year. That was partly offset by M&C, up 8%.

For the year, equipment orders were up 12% and backlog grew 27%. Service orders were up 6%, led by global service up 8%, partially offset by M&C down 3%.

Service backlog grew 27% in services as well. Orders pricing was strong in the quarter, up 1.8%.

Operations in the business had a solid quarter. Revenue of $5.3 billion was up 17%; that is up 9%, ex-acquisitions.

Equipment revenues of $2.8 billion were higher by 16%, driven by strong execution in Subsea, up 70%; Drilling and Surface up 20%; partly offset by M&C down 18% on continued market softness. Service revenues of $2.5 billion were up 17%, with strength in Global Services, up 9%; Drilling and Surface up 20%; Subsea up 45%.

Segment profit grew 24% to $800 million, up 18% ex-acquisitions, driven by strong value gap and higher volume. Margins were up 80 basis points year-over-year; and they were up 120 basis points year-over-year excluding acquisitions.

Next I will walk through Aviation and Healthcare. Aviation orders of $7 billion were down 5%, driven by equipment orders down 15%. Commercial engine orders were $3.2 billion, down 12%, primarily driven by the huge ramp of CFM LEAP orders starting in the fourth quarter of 2012. CFM orders were down 23% in the quarter to $1.5 billion.

GEnx orders of $1 billion were up 21%, and GE90 orders were up 43% in the quarter.

Commercial engines backlog grew 28% to $21.6 billion, despite not yet booking the vast majority of the $23-billion-plus of engine commitments from the Dubai Airshow. Military engine orders were down 43%, as we expected; so as we look ahead into 2014 for the military business, we are expecting profits to be down mid single digits year-over-year.

Service orders of $3 billion were up 11%, driven by Commercial spares up 16% to $26 million a day. Military service orders were down 3%, driven by sequestration and lower flying hours, which are down 15% to 20% over the last 12 months.

Service backlog ended the year at $97 billion, 22% higher than year-end 2012. Orders pricing was strong, with positive 1.8%.

Revenue in the quarter of $6.2 billion was up 13%; up 7% ex-Avio. The Commercial equipment revenue was 17% higher, with 627 unit deliveries versus 589 in 4Q 2012 and a greater mix of higher-value GEnx and GE90 engines. We shipped 80 GEnx engines in the quarter.

Military revenues were up 16% on lower units, 239 versus 258. But the value was higher, driven by favorable mix of tankers and fighter engines.

Service revenues were up 10%, driven by strong spares revenue, up 17% to $26.4 million a day. Military service was down 17%, driven in part by sequestration and the lower flying hours, in addition to wind-down of some upgrade programs.

Operating profit of $1.25 billion was up 20%, up 13% ex-Avio, on strong volume and value gap. Margin rates improved 130 basis points, 100 basis points ex-Avio.

Strong cost productivity more than offset GEnx mix and higher R&D spend. Also, if you exclude the Duarte disposition from the fourth-quarter 2012, margins would have been up 310 basis points in the quarter. So overall a very strong quarter and a strong year for the Aviation team.

Healthcare orders of $5.4 billion were up 1%, driven by emerging markets up 4%, with Latin America up 15% and China up 8%, partially offset by Russia down 19%. From a developed markets perspective, the US was flat and Europe was up 2%. Japan was down 10%; but actually up 11% excluding the impact of FX.

Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were down 1%. CT was down 16%; MR was up 1%; ultrasound was down 2%; and molecular imaging was up 6%.

Service orders of $2.1 billion were up 3%, driven by Healthcare IT, up 6%. Healthcare IT growth has picked up as new product launches are gaining traction. As Jeff said at the December Outlook Meeting, we expect Healthcare IT to be up 10% organically in 2014.

Revenue of $5.1 billion was down 1%. That is flat, excluding the effects of FX. And fourth-quarter profit of $1.1 billion was up 4%, as benefits of simplification more than offset the impact of lower pricing and foreign exchange.

SG&A was down 13% in the quarter and down 6% for the year. Margin rates were up 110 basis points. Excluding the impact of the Thomas Medical disposition in the fourth-quarter 2012, op profit would've been up 13%, with margins expanding 230 basis points.

Next I will cover Transportation. Orders of $1.2 billion were down 9%. Equipment orders were down 2%, and we had orders for 149 locos versus 88 in the fourth quarter of 2012. But mining orders continue to be soft, down 60%.

Service orders were down 15%, driven by flat service contracts, but offset by fewer modifications and weak demand for mining parts.

Revenues of $1.5 billion were up 7% year-over-year. Strong equipment growth of 22% was offset by service revenue, down 8%, again driven by soft mining parts. Locomotive shipments were higher, with fourth-quarter deliveries of 171 units compared with 117 a year ago.

Operating profit of $280 million was up 11%, with margins better by 70 basis points. The improvement was principally driven by positive value gap.

In 2013, Transportation executed well in a difficult environment, expanding margins 140 basis points. Looking into 2014, we expect a continuing soft mining industry with OHV shipments down 50% for the year; and the first quarter will be weaker than that, probably down closer to 80%. We expect a slow recovery for North American coal, offset somewhat by a strong international pipeline for locos.

Energy Management. Performance in our Energy Management business has been disappointing this year. Although results were modestly better sequentially, they were still well below the business's potential.

Orders continue to be a good story: up 6% in the quarter to $2.3 billion, a record for the business. This was driven by Power Conversion, up 18% on strong renewables industry volume, offset partially by Industrial Solutions, down 6%. 2013 backlog was up 20%, with every single platform in the business being higher.

Revenues were up 4%, principally driven by Industrial Solutions and Intelligent Platforms. Operating profit of $46 million was down 28%, driven by Power Conversion. This business has continued to deal with backlog conversion challenges and higher startup costs as they began production of our new marine platform.

Over the last two years the marine business has more than doubled its backlog, and total Power Conversion has grown backlog by 35%. We expect to see steady progress in Power Conversion throughout 2014 as their volume ramps and they focus on converting this backlog.

Despite the poor performance in Energy Management this quarter, we do think we are making progress in our restructuring efforts and our execution issues. For instance, our Industrial Solutions business that we started restructuring two years ago was up 71% in op profit in the quarter; it was up 38% for the year on op profit, on almost flat volume. So more work to do here, but also some good execution within our Industrial Solutions business.

Appliances & Lighting had a good quarter, primarily driven by Appliances. Overall Appliance domestic industry was up 10% on units with strength in both retail, up 10%, and contract, up 12%.

Housing starts continue to be positive. They were up 16%, with single-family better by 13% and multifamily up 22%.

Revenues of $2.2 billion were higher by 6%, led by a 9% increase in Appliances. Lighting revenues were up 1%, with strong global LED sales, which were up 50%, offset by continued decline in our incandescent product lines.

Segment profit of $142 million was up 23%. Appliances op profit was up 51%, driven by positive value gap and productivity; and Lighting op profit was higher by 5%. Margins improved 90 basis points in the quarter for the segment.

Next I am going to go through GE Capital. Before I go through the standard operating page, I thought I would take you through a layout of some of the major items in the quarter, similar to the way Keith did it in the November meeting.

So if you start on the left here, GE Capital earned $2.5 billion, up 38% from a year ago. On the right side you can see we had $1.6 billion of tax benefits and gains from the Switzerland and the BAY transactions, as we discussed.

We sold 68.5% share in the Swiss consumer bank via an IPO, resulting in $1.2 billion of tax benefits and gains. In addition, we completed the sale of our remaining stake in BAY Bank, resulting in a $400 million gain.

As the team continues to reposition the portfolio, we did have $1 billion of charges related to dispositions and restructuring of non-core Consumer and Real Estate assets as well as impairments in CLL and GECAS. I will cover some of the principal drivers here.

In the Consumer segment we exited $700 million of mortgage assets in the Netherlands at a loss of $75 million. We recorded an impairment charge of $90 million on an investment in a Taiwanese bank that positions us to exit that non-core asset in 2014.

In Real Estate we had a $75 million charge related to sell-down of the equity book in our Swedish portfolio. In CLL we recorded after-tax impairments of $290 million related to two specific investments as well as a small write-down in our Corporate asset book.

At GECAS we recorded impairments of $270 million, primarily related to certain older aircraft types that are more susceptible to changes in technology and operating preferences, which reduces our exposure to these less desirable assets and creates additional portfolio flexibility. I will cover more of these items as I go through each of the segments on the following page.

Finally, we had adjustments to reserving models, primarily in North American Retail Finance and Consumer international, resulting in $200 million higher after-tax credit costs in the quarter. In Retail we increased our loss reserve coverage from 12 months to 12.5 months of forecasted charge-offs.

After adjusting for all these items, GE Capital's net income in the quarter was $2.1 billion.

Now to cover operations in segments, revenue of $11.1 billion was down 5%, with assets down 4% or $22 billion year-over-year. Net income of $2.5 billion was up 38% from prior year as the tax benefits and gains, as I mentioned, from Swiss and BAY transactions more than offset portfolio actions, higher losses and impairments, and lower assets.

We ended the quarter with $380 billion of ENI. That is down $36 billion or 9% from last year, and down $3 billion sequentially. Non-core ENI was down 22% to $53 billion.

Net interest margins in the quarter increased 16 basis points to 5%, and flat with the third quarter. Volume was up 5% in the quarter, with new business ROIs over 2% as we continue to stay disciplined on pricing and risk hurdles.

Tier 1 common on a Basel 1 basis improved by 10 basis points sequentially and 120 basis points year-over-year to 11.4%, driven by the reduction in assets and after paying $2 billion of dividends in the quarter. For total-year 2013, GE Capital paid $6 billion in dividends to the Parent and will pay an additional $130 million in the first quarter to reflect the higher fourth-quarter earnings.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue to be strong, with the delinquency rates improving across the portfolio. We ended the quarter with $29 billion of commercial paper, ahead of our plans. And liquidity was very strong, ending the quarter at $75 billion.

Now I will walk through each of the segments. Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended the fourth quarter with $174 billion of assets; that is down 4% from last year, including a reduction in non-core assets of $3 billion. On-book core value was $13 billion, down 8%, due to the elevated level of customer activity we saw last year from the US fiscal cliff concerns. But we did see strong volume growth in the US direct midmarket businesses, which were up 32% in the quarter versus 2012.

Overall, new business returns remain attractive at about 2% ROIs, despite continued excess liquidity. These are positive growth indicators as we think about our core CLL business going into next year.

Earnings of $263 million were down 52%, driven by lower assets and impairments. After adjusting for impairments that I covered on the prior page, earnings would have been up 1% with assets down 4%.

Asset quality was stable in the portfolio. In 2013, the CLL business earned $2 billion; and going into 2014, we expect it to be up double digits.

The Consumer segment ended the quarter with $132 billion of assets. That is down 4% from last year. The Swiss and BAY deals we exited reduced assets by $5 billion.

Net income of $2.1 billion was up almost 3 times; again driven by these two transactions, partially offset by higher credit cost and charges related to the portfolio actions that I talked about on the prior page.

North American Retail Finance earned $466 million in the fourth quarter. That is down 2% as higher core net income was offset by reserve adjustments and continued marketing investments.

Asset growth in the business was strong at 10%, driven by volume up 11%. Overall, Consumer asset quality remained stable.

Real Estate had another decent quarter. Assets ended the quarter at $39 billion; that is down 16%, down $1 billion sequentially. The equity book is down 32% from a year ago to $14 billion.

Net income of $128 million was down 59% versus 2012 but in line with where we expected them to be. That was driven by nonrepeat of last year's gain from the sale of our business properties portfolio of about $82 million and our Sweden equity sell-down of about $75 million. In the quarter we sold 341 properties with a book value of about $2.4 billion for $145 million in gains.

The debt business earned over $100 million in the quarter and originated $4.7 billion of volume at attractive returns, including the purchase of a $1.8 billion UK portfolio from Deutsche Postbank. Asset quality continues to improve, with 30-day delinquencies at 124 basis points; and that is the lowest level we have seen since the crisis.

The Real Estate team earned $1.7 billion in 2013 and continues to execute well as they shrink the equity book and invest in a profitable debt business. In 2014, we expect the business to have lower earnings, as we have shared with you, with the debt business performing well, offset by lower gains in tax benefits.

Within the verticals, GECAS earned $71 million; that is down 79%, driven by impairments of $270 million, which were up roughly $230 million from prior year. As I mentioned on the prior page we revised our expectations for certain older aircraft types in our portfolio.

We lowered our estimate of future cash flows on these aircraft to reflect a shorter useful life and lower residual values. As a result, we had impairments related to older narrowbodies of about $130 million; cargo aircraft of $50 million; and $32 million on 50-seat regional jets. The average age of the aircraft we impaired in the quarter was 15 years, compared to our fleet average of about 7 years.

GECAS did end the quarter with zero delinquencies and no aircraft on the ground. For the total year 2013, GECAS earned $900 million; and in 2014 we expect them to be up double digits.

EFS earnings were up 9% in the quarter to $117 million, driven largely by lower margin impairments year-over-year. We had several large items in the quarter as we continue to reposition the portfolio. The Capital team continues to execute well and deliver strong operating results.

In 2013, the business earned $8.3 billion, up 12% on $36 billion lower ENI. Capital liquidity and funding are all very strong, and we continue to be disciplined around the volume that we are originating. In 2014, we expect GE Capital to earn roughly $7 billion on core growth, offset by lower gains, tax benefits, and the impact of our anticipated Retail Finance IPO.

So with that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Jeff. Thanks. Again, just to recap on 2013, we had a good year in 2013. Industrially our segment profits grew by 12% in the second half, and then we had five of seven segments that had strong growth for the year.

We grew margins by 66 basis points organically, close to our 70 basis point goal. Organic growth was flat, but up 5% ex-Power & Water.

Capital had a solid year, with earnings up 12% while shrinking ENI by 9%, and they paid a dividend of $6 billion to the Parent. Per our plan, we returned $18.2 billion of cash to investors through dividends and buyback.

So we hit really most of our goals for 2013. Then looking forward on the 2014 framework, we have no change for the 2014 operating framework.

We expect double-digit Industrial earnings growth similar to the second half of 2013. We expect 4% to 7% organic growth with expanding margins.

GE Capital will have about $7 billion of earnings, reflecting an improving origination environment, the North American Retail transaction, and lower Real Estate gains. Corporate should be slightly more positive as we pulled forward restructuring into 2013. And there is no change in our outlook for cash or revenue.

So we end the year with momentum. I think we presented this framework to you in December, and I would say based on the way we closed the year we are quite confident in this operating framework for 2014. So we feel good about the momentum of the Company.

So, Trevor, with that let's turn it back to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Jeff. Frances, let's open up the phone lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Early in the call, Jeff, you mentioned having greater confidence in the structural cost-out. Can you talk about your confidence in value gap?

Price looked a little light, particularly in Power & Water. Do you have a greater confidence in value gap in 2014, or the same, or lower?

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Scott, is the value gap was about $900 million in 2013. Our expectation -- that it is not that strong; it is probably more in the couple hundred million dollar range.

When we look at the backlog and where we have done -- gone from a sourcing standpoint, we feel confident in the value gap still being tailwind in 2014. If you just take -- go a layer lower, and you look at gas turbine equipment margin, operating profit, it is going to be positive in 2014 versus 2013.

So that is the one that has probably had the most intense pricing pressure. But we have had a very active plan to get about 10% of the cost out of our heavy-duty gas turbine product, and that is going to bleed through.

So we see earnings -- just to pick the one where we've had the most intense competition, Scott, we see positive earnings growth year-over-year 2014 versus 2013 on heavy-duty gas turbine equipment margin -- operating profit dollars.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's helpful. Then Energy Management continues to be a bit of a tough spot. Where can that business go? Can it ever be a double-digit margin business?

Is this something that -- is there an endgame of some substance? Trying to figure out what we can expect out of these guys.

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I think it is a very fair question. I think what Jeff said earlier is we're going to do a lot of restructuring this year. Every time we sit and review the business we compare it directly with their Industrial peers, all of whom have double-digit operating profit rates. That is our expectation for this business.

And investors -- and me -- should expect substantial improvement in 2014 versus 2013.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Good luck. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning. You guys on the last several quarters have given the year-over-year change in services margins. I didn't see it in the slides. Can you maybe just give us a little extra color on that, year-over-year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. Service margins year-over-year were up 190 basis points fourth quarter to fourth quarter. Total year we were up about 90 basis points, total year 2013 versus 2012.

STEVE TUSA: Wow, okay. Okay, and then just a couple of follow-ups. On the Oil & Gas side, what is your visibility on the orders there? There's just been a lot of moving parts and mix dynamics at your peers, and there's -- the orders have obviously run very hot. Everybody is kind of full from a capacity perspective.

How do you see the orders in drilling and surface and subsea playing out over the next year?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, there was one big order for these guys that pushed probably into the first quarter that is big enough to be a meaningful swinger year-over-year, that should lead -- should lead to a positive first quarter from an orders standpoint. But to your point, particularly in subsea we have got a strong backlog, pretty high visibility.

And as you know these things are lumpy. So our expectation is that these guys continue to have good solid orders growth next year; but a push of one big project is meaningful from an orders standpoint.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. It's Steve, by the way.

JEFF IMMELT: I'm sorry, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: That's okay. Then just on the Distributed Power, the aeroderiv shipments, I think you had a target this year for 200-something. What do you expect for next year and where did you finish this year on the aeroderivs?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so on aeroderivatives next year, we're going to be more or less in the range of this year. We expect to see potentially a little bit of growth, but it is not going to be enormous growth.

We had a big year this year on aeroderivatives, particularly trailer mounted. So we are hoping for slow -- a small amount of growth. But it is not going to be enormous.

JEFF IMMELT: We had a boomer this year, Steve, and I think next year we are kind of in the flattish range.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks. And I don't want to get all choked up, but I am -- say thanks to Trevor for all the years of help and best of luck in his -- I'm choking back the tears here -- best of luck in his new role.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, that is huge of you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: I will miss you too, Steve.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Maybe there's an upgrade here for Trevor.

STEVE TUSA: Not sure about that, but we'll talk after. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: As we look at the composition of the margins on slide 6, various puts and takes. What is the big drag in 2014 versus 66 basis points that we did in 2013? Just thinking about it.

JEFF IMMELT: Andrew, why don't I start it off and then I will turn it over to Jeff? I think the way we have tried to build 2014 is to drive the things we can really control in the environment. So we are going to have another year that is going to be very aggressive on the structural cost-out.

You guys saw us do well this year. We're going to have another year of real focus there.

We are going to have a positive value gap. Not as strong as we had this year, but still positive, and I think that is realistic.

So I think simplification is in our control. Value gap is -- we've got pretty good visibility; that is going to be positive.

I think R&D, we were able to do a little bit more R&D this year. I think that creates a little bit more headroom for us to make sure that R&D is a positive next year for us.

And then the toughest thing always to call here, Andrew, is mix in terms of where the -- so what we've tried to do is create a buffer with the things we can control, to be able to better balance the mix impact as we go through the year. So we are not taking our focus off anything. If anything, our structural cost is going to be aggressive; our restructuring is going to be aggressive. And what we have tried to do is create a little bit of buffer vis-a-vis how mix shakes out in the year.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Andrew, I would just add on mix, we think equipment is going to be ahead of service next year. We've got a real ramp in GEnx, we've got a real ramp in Wind, and that is most of what that mix is driving.

ANDREW OBIN: That's helpful. And just maybe I missed it, but could you just comment on the order patterns in December? Any big positive or negative surprises versus your expectations, other than what happened in Wind, obviously?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't know, Jeff, if you -- I think Power & Water was a little bit stronger than -- I am talking an orders now standpoint, Andrew.

ANDREW OBIN: Yes, that's fine.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think Power & Water was -- we expected a strong fourth quarter, but it was probably even a little bit stronger than what we thought. I think Oil & Gas, like I said, tends to be a little bit lumpy.

Aviation, we have got such a big backlog in Aviation. I would say the spares number and the service orders are what we watch closely in Aviation; I think those were positive.

Healthcare, really no difference in terms of what we thought we were going to see. And I would say in Transportation, we just saw weakness around mining and we expect that to play over into next year.

Then the Wind thing was really very late-breaking. And I don't know, Jeff (multiple speakers) --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I would just -- I think, Andrew, the only -- we had one big Oil & Gas project in Southeast Asia, almost $700 million, that we were reasonably confident was going to land in the quarter that actually pushed into the first half of next year. Other than that, not a lot of major surprises.

As Jeff said, parts in Aviation were strong; we expected them to be strong. We knew Aviation year-over-year, based on the CFM launch in the fourth quarter last year, was going to show a little weaker. So I think most everything else was more or less as expected.

JEFF IMMELT: And Wind was really not an orders issue. It was more of a rev-rec.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, and we had good Wind orders.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you very much, Trevor, and thank you for all the help.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks, good morning. Trevor, I will just say it at the beginning: thanks for all your hard effort to this point and good luck.

I would like to push that Oil & Gas question a little further. The majors and Petrobras have all stopped expanding CapEx. They have got numerous projects that are being deferred, given cost blowouts. And that is likely leading to a decline in subsea equipment, at least as we see it, as customers digest their prior orders here.

Then we have got nominally high crude prices. But despite that, cost inflation seems to be eroding some of these returns offshore for these guys.

So how -- just maybe help us understand this in a little more depth, how you're going to buck some of that trend. Or do you just disagree with my assertions there?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, Steve, again, I would say that if you look at most of the big industry contextual comments, even with some of the I would say concern about CapEx cost and things like that, they're still -- the forecast is for CapEx to be positive growth in 2014. Maybe not as great as it was in years gone by, but still pretty great.

If you look at the national oil companies versus the integrated oil companies, our view is that the NOCs really haven't backed off at all. And that is where we see a ton of activity.

I would say the place that we still think is reasonably weak is maybe around North America, some of the drilling and surface stuff. We're watching that. And the Measurement and Control stuff, we are watching that.

But the last thing I would say -- Steve, when I get up in the morning around Oil & Gas, if you ask me what I worry about first, it is shipping our late backlog. In other words, we have such a traffic jam around the volume we've got in our factories, I would say we have got extremely good visibility, certainly in the short term.

So again it is something we all watch, but it is not -- I think there's always going to be big puts and takes in this business. But I would leave you the thought of NOCs versus IOCs, the backlog we have today and getting it executed, and a long-term notion that says if you pick up any of the big reports that your banks tend to write, they basically say that the long-term health of the industry is still pretty strong.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, all right. We are not a bank, but I get it; and that is helpful.

Now on the -- since you mentioned what does -- you think about first thing in the morning, the blade issue for Wind. Can you identify a little bit more why we shouldn't have to worry about this happening again from just an operational standpoint?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, maybe I will start and then toss it over to Jeff. I think this is stuff that comes out of a supply chain; we look at it; we've been looking at it for a period of time. I think our teams really feel like we have got it isolated and reflected.

We've got teams that are good at this stuff, Steve. And I think we know kind of exactly where we are.

It may impact a little bit timing, but our read is it's not going to impact the year at all from a standpoint of either Power & Water or the Power & Water segment growth that we have got planned for the year, or the Wind business revenue growth for the year.

So we are good at this stuff. We use an abundance of caution when it relates to our customers and things like that. And I think that is what we have exercised here.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. I think that -- yes, go ahead. Sorry, Jeff.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I was just going to add, Steve, that the population we think we're talking about, it's one manufacturing batch of blades that we think we've isolated it to and we're doing inspections on, non-destructive testing, etc. So the percentage of the fleet we are talking about is very, very small.

So we are just trying to isolate this down, and we wanted to be very careful at year end about how we dealt with it. We think we've got our arms around the issue and, as Jeff said, it will play out here in the first quarter or second quarter of next, 2014.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. The $1.6 billion provision number in GE Cap was bigger than I expected, trending from what, $821 million or something last quarter, and then bigger than last year. And it looks like, as you said, the 30-day delinquencies are getting better.

So is this all credit model changes? Do you expect it to stay elevated? Or how should we think about modeling this or anticipate it?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: It might help if I explain how it moved year-over-year, Steve. Last year we were about $1.1 billion.

About a $230 million increase in Consumer. Now almost half that increase is associated with selling that Dutch mortgage business in the quarter. Part of the economics and loss in that actually ran through the provision and then directly to write-off. So that year-over-year skews half of it.

Then I mentioned booking up coverage in the North American Retail business from 12 to 12.5 months. And then we had a book-up on some restructured Consumer accounts in Asia year-over-year. That is the bulk of it.

On the Commercial side, we're up $175 [million] year-over-year in provisions. About half of that in Real Estate and half of that in CLL. Some of that were specific reserves around a couple of accounts, but some of it was just hitting reserve floors.

We have said we're not going to go below certain levels of reserve coverage. The portfolio quality in both Real Estate and CLL would naturally push us below those floors because things have improved so quickly, and we are kind of booking back to those floors, which is not going to go through there.

And that results in reprovisioning up, with not necessarily a direct correlation to what is happening from a portfolio quality perspective. And that is most of the change year-over-year.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, got it. And before I hand it off, I just might have missed this. Did you guys say what the equivalent to that 66 basis point number would be in your rough expectations for this year, when you put it all together?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, we didn't say.

JEFF IMMELT: Nice try, Steve.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We talked about by the end of 2016 being at 17-plus-% operating margins, and that is how we are defining success, and that is what we are targeting.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. (multiple speakers) Thanks, bye.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just to follow up on Steve's question on that, the 66 margin year-over-year, could you help bridge where you came short on the 70 basis point target? I know that the blade issue you sized at $100 million on the margin line. But you also included Energy Management as one of the margin pressures.

So if you could just bridge for us those two items.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. The Wind issue in Power would have been diluted to the rate that they printed in the quarter; but it would've been accretive to the overall Industrial segment. So that is a couple basis points on the total-year rate. And combined with Energy Management, if they had delivered the framework that we expected them to deliver on, we'd have been above 71 or 72 basis points for the year.

So we are counting basis points here. The difference between 66 and 70 at this level is $40 million of op profit for the year. Okay? So we are really counting small increments here.

But ex- those two items we'd have been above 70 basis points.

DEANE DRAY: Good. That is exactly what I was looking for.

Then just a couple of other items. The Commercial spares being up 16%, that's well above global flying hours. How do you -- what do you attribute the upside to?

Is there a restocking going on? Is it easier comp? But that looks above expectations.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: A couple things. Flying hours are improving pretty dramatically. We have been up globally 5%, north of 5%; and that has a dramatic impact.

You also have a little bit of restocking going on. The orders rate is improving partly because airlines have cut back on the level of inventories they were carrying on spare parts in 2012.

And then the fleet has continued to grow, and the fleet is aging, and we are seeing more instances of overhauls. So the overhaul rate, if you will, in the installed base is going up, and that is driving demand for spare parts.

So I think most of it -- I think it all fits together.

DEANE DRAY: Good. Just last question for me. I know you have had uncovered restructuring in the quarter here. What's the expectations for uncovered restructuring?

You said $0.10 for 2014. And then specifically, do you have a line of sight on uncovered restructuring in the first quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. I think what we said was we expected to invest $1 billion to $1.5 billion in 2014. As Jeff mentioned, we did end up accelerating a little bit of that investment into the fourth quarter, largely because the projects were ready to go and we didn't want to wait to start on execution on those items.

Overall, that is money that would have been spent in 2014 that won't now. But I still think our range is $1 billion to $1.5 billion.

I think there will be other ideas. We talked about doing some restructuring in 2015, so I am not sure that range is really changing much.

I would expect the benefits, as Jeff said, would be slightly better in 2014 than they otherwise would have been, because we got a little bit of a head start.

JEFF IMMELT: I think that is the way I'd think about it, Deane, is we've really fortified the benefits in 2014, and those should be greater.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Now, in terms of the timing on the restructuring, earlier is better than later, and I would expect the bulk of this to happen in the first quarter and certainly the first half of the year.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you, hey, good morning, Jeff. A couple questions. Just on GECAS, did you change the useful life on 737s at all? And if not, why not?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Here is what we did, Jeff. We go through this annual review -- you're very familiar with it -- in the third quarter. We use third-party data on useful life, residual values, lease rates, etc.

We always have some cleanup in the fourth quarter. It usually doesn't amount to much.

This year coming out of the third quarter, the team took a deeper dive on some of our older aircraft, principally narrowbody. We are in a situation now where you've got an enormous amount of technology being introduced over the next 5 to 10 years. When you get this level of oil and jet-A price, the differences in efficiency economically are enormous versus what they might have been historically.

And we just decided on both older narrowbody Boeing and older narrowbody Airbus that our views of useful lives and residual values were less than what third parties had given us as appraisals in the third quarter. It gives us flexibility to deal with these aircraft, and we think we're on the right side.

We'll be in the market with some of these aircraft in 2014, and we will have an idea of just where we are vis-a-vis the portfolio. So.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Yes, I just understand, like you would obviously mark down the older ones first. But if a 37 used to have a useful life of 40 years and now you are using 35 -- I am just making up numbers -- that actually impacts the whole fleet, regardless of how old the aircraft are in the book. Right? They all come down.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, this is very specific to 50-seat regional jets, older -- the average age was 15 years; to Airbus A318s; very old 737s. Some of the 737s were in cargo format, etc. etc. So it is very much narrowbody and deep into their lives aircraft. So I don't think there is a broader implication across the fleet.

I think we like the fleet we have. It has got an average age of 7 years. It is priced well.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. Just on tax then in GE Capital, do you need to start off the year accruing higher because the Subpart F has not yet been fixed? Or how do we actually think about that into the new year?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Given our year-end, our fiscal year-ends within GE Capital, etc., the impact for us is really not until the very end of the year. We are good through the end of November.

So the rate we accrue at through the year will reflect the fact that we are in good shape relative to AFE through November; and then we'll assume that in December AFE may not be there, and that is the rate we will accrue to.

JEFF SPRAGUE: So for a placeholder then for 2014, what kind of rate should we be using for Capital?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: We expect Capital to be single-digit tax rate.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Right. Then just one other one for me. Just back to the margin question, and less the bridge from 66 to 70, but more the bridge from -- at the beginning of the year I think you saw a line of sight at something like 120 or 130, which was giving you confidence in the 70. Obviously, revenues came in a little lighter; there's a couple things that are identifiable in what you put in front of us.

But is there anything else that we should be thinking about there that was a problem in 2013 that doesn't repeat in 2014? And along those lines, can you give us an idea of what kind of hedge is in that implicit 40 or so that we are looking for, for 2014?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Jeff, the one thing I would say is that R&D -- with the way this funding ran for Aviation and I would say Oil & Gas, R&D was a little heavier in 2013 than I had expected. And I am -- again, this is in our control. We're reasonably confident that R&D is going to be tailwind in 2014 versus 2013.

So other than that, Jeff, I think it is all the puts and takes around mix. But I think that's -- I think we are pretty confident on that.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Is there a way to frame an internal hedge on 2014?

JEFF IMMELT: Probably -- again, I think we've got some momentum now, right? So we've got a pretty good framework, a pretty good flow; and I think that is going to carry us over into 2014.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. All right, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Hey, Jeff Bornstein, just want to go back to your comments around the fact that you think the bulk of the range of restructuring, the naked restructuring, is sort of first half. Should we just by inference then be expecting -- because GE obviously traditionally has -- you have your first three quarters and then you have typically a pretty big fourth quarter.

Should we be expecting then a down EPS first and second quarter, or first half, versus 2013?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, John, we don't give guidance at that level. I think you are correct in assuming that the bulk of what we will invest in simplification next year will be in the first quarter, first half. But we don't give quarterly earnings guidance.

JOHN INCH: No, but I'm not -- I understand that, so I'm not looking for specifics. I'm just more -- I'm not off base in my thinking, am I? Or is there something else that we should think about, the first half?

JEFF IMMELT: I wouldn't read into so much, John. Again, I don't think there is a specific profile, and we expect a number of our businesses to be able to come out of the year and perform well in the first quarter.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Listen, I will give you this much. I think we certainly expect Industrial segment earnings to grow in the first half. That's about as much as I can give you. We're not giving quarterly guidance.

JOHN INCH: No, no, I understand. That's helpful. I want to ask you about the simplification.

So we sold the three Industrial businesses in the quarter. Jeff Bornstein, as you've gotten into this with your team, how would you frame the outlook for further cleanup within the Industrial segment? So I'm not talking about maybe larger-scale portfolio simplification down the road.

More just -- what have you been uncovering, and how this maybe dovetails into some of the restructuring that you guys have been taking, and your outlook there?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, John, I think we'll continue to prune the portfolio where it makes sense, and there will be more transactions in 2014. I don't know that they'll be -- certainly excluding NBCU -- the same order of magnitude economically as there was in 2013.

But this is an ongoing process and the businesses are going to continue to go through their portfolio, and we will continue to clean up where it doesn't make sense or where we're not willing to invest or we don't see the growth there. So that process will continue as we move through 2014.

JOHN INCH: Maybe one last one for me. Just back to Oil & Gas on the surface, the drilling side, the land-based side. There is a fairly widely held view that WTI prices or certainly US oil prices could be actually heading lower. How does GE -- one, I am wondering: have you seen any of this, say, reflected in Lufkin's backlog, your recent acquisition? Just because the prices of the oilfield service companies, the share prices, they're down.

And how do you guys maybe think about that? Because obviously you're building a long-term business. Does this present opportunities actually for M&A? If in fact some of the public companies' share prices were well off, you could continue to consolidate some of these properties.

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, John, is when I look globally in the various segments in the Oil & Gas business, the drilling piece in North America probably has been the weakest as time goes on. And if we see opportunities to do more work there, we are certainly going to do it, because we think over the long term that is still a good place for us.

JOHN INCH: Yes, perfect. Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, good morning, everyone. Quick question on organic growth. You are exiting the year with a good clip at 5%. Orders were up 8% year-to-date.

But you take a look at your guidance for 2013; it looks like organic growth ended negative. Your guidance was closer to 2%.

So my question is really around, as you look into 2014, what kind of confidence do you have in that 4% to 7% number, based on what you already have in backlog? And what are the puts and takes to those numbers, to the high end versus low end of the range?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I think when -- I don't know, Jeff, you went through the unit shipments year-over-year that we basically have in backlog. You know, Joe, if you just look at that, a big Wind backlog, shipping more heavy-duty gas turbines, the jet engine backlog, etc., etc., it takes you to the 4% to 7% range. I don't know, Jeff; you want to go through them again?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, sure. The one thing I did thematically here -- so we have a couple of unique things to GE, or at least in the same Company, which is the GEnx story and the Wind story are within -- fairly unique to GE. And that's a big part of pushing the range from 4% to 7%. Ex- that we're somewhere around 3% to 5%, which I don't think is off-color.

I will give you a sense of where we expect units for 2014. Wind we think is going to be about 3,000 units versus 2,100 units in 2013. Gas turbine somewhere between 85 and 90 versus 81 in 2013.

Locos -- Locomotives will be between 550 and 600; that will be down slightly. Jet engines will be up -- as I just said, around GEnx -- will be up to 2,500 units versus about 2,378 in 2013; and as I mentioned, GEnx will be somewhere between 250 and 300, most of that growth, versus 180.

Military is going to be a mix as it relates to Aviation. So that gives you a sense of what we are thinking in units.

I did mention earlier in the script that we do have a few areas of softness, Mining being one of them and our Locomotive business. Mining is going to be, we expect, very soft on OHV in 2014.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Joe, on the services side, we end the year with the best velocity we had during the year. So that's the other piece of the equation.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay, great. That is really good color. I think one question on the gas turbine pricing pressure. It looks like Power & Water pricing has been down now for two quarters in a row. Can you just provide some color where you are seeing that recently? So where are you seeing most of the pricing pressure today?

JEFF IMMELT: The region mix is always a relatively big swing in the gas turbine side. So there was a couple big deals in Saudi that have been price competitive. And it's going to be a competitive market, Joe, I think.

But we are doing a good job on the cost side. And like I said, I think when we look out over 2014 and into the future, we still see heavy-duty gas turbine equipment operating profit dollar growth in this time period.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Joe, I would just add to that. If you look at quoting activity in the space around gas turbines, the fourth quarter was -- definitely the level of activity has picked up. We are up like 96% versus fourth-quarter 2012, and 26 more projects quoting real-time in the fourth quarter than a year ago.

The bulk of that strength has really been in the US, surprisingly, and China. So there's a lot of activity here. I don't know that it's going to -- we're necessarily calling a significant turn on gas turbine. But there's definitely the activity, and you saw the order performance was 65 units in the quarter, 124 for the year. And this quoting activity -- we're hopeful.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay, great. Then just one last question. You quantified the impact from the blade issue at $100 million for this quarter. Have you quantified the potential impact on the margins for 2014?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I think what we said was we are not anticipating this being an issue for our framework for the entirety of 2014.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay, great. Thank you very much for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. First, a clarification; then a question. In response to John Inch's question, or the answer to it, where you expect Industrial earnings to grow in the first half: was that at the segment level or post the eliminations line, that comment?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: No, I was talking about segment earnings.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, great. Then just looking back at how 2013 transpired, operating profit at the Industrial segment level was up a little over $700 million; but we had the $900 million value gap and the significant cost-out. So just wondering what pieces plug that difference.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, if you go back to the value walk -- the margin walk that Jeff did for the total year, we spent a bit more in R&D, which partially offset that; and then base inflation, foreign exchange, and other items.

We had volume down somewhat, and we didn't repeat the two big deals I talked about in the fourth quarter year-over-year: the Duarte deal in Aviation and the Thomas deal in Medical, which on a year-over-year walk are material differences.

But we feel great about what the team is delivering around simplification and SG&A cost-out. Value gap was real positive. We expect it to be positive again, not at the same levels, but we expect it to contribute to margins in 2014.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, thanks. That helps.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA: Morning, guys. So Real Estate, the non-earnings jumped up like 6X this quarter. Can you talk about what is going on there? And where are we in terms of unrealized loss and what it means for the equity book in 2014?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. We had a -- we're executing a re-class in the quarter between our nonearnings calculation and the traditional industry calculation of nonaccrual. So it is really just that.

When you go through -- if you go through the supplemental, there is a really detailed note that walks exactly on what the trade-off is between cash basis and cost recovery of assets deemed nonaccrual, and within nonaccrual nonearning. So you have a bump up in nonearning; you have a big bump down in nonaccrual, roughly $3 billion. And it walks you through the pieces of it.

There is no change whatsoever in terms of portfolio quality. It's just how we are characterizing between nonearning and nonaccrual; and that is just to get us closer to an industry basis.

Second is on the Real Estate. I think we ended the year at roughly about a $2.1 billion embedded loss, which is basically flat year-over-year. The biggest change year-over-year is -- we were I think $1.1 billion roughly at the end of 2013 -- is the 30 Rock transaction we did in the first quarter of 2013, which was more than $1 billion pretax, bumped that up a little bit.

Now having said that, we've sold things throughout the year, as both the gains and losses, etc., and we kind of find ourselves back at $2 billion. But I think we feel great about where we are in that $14 billion portfolio, and we will continue to liquidate it down. And so far, anyway, we have outperformed the embedded loss numbers we have been sharing with you for the last five years.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, thanks. That helps. Then on pension, where are you going to end up for 2014 in terms of operating and nonoperating pension and funded status?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. We ended 2013 at about 91% on the funded status. The deficit in the principal pension plan was down just under $9 [million] year-over-year, driven by portfolio performance; we were up 14.3% in terms of the earnings on the pension assets. And the discount rate was up to 485 -- 485 basis points. So that took the deficit down fairly substantially.

In terms of pension next year we expect pension in total, as I've shared with you guys, to be down roughly $900 million next year. Most of that will be or a significant percentage of that will be in nonop pension. The operating pension benefit will be something south of $400 million, but about in that range.

We need to finalize exactly where all these year-end ending points are going to -- how they're going to play out in the pension expense. But -- so we expect to be down about $900 million in total and with a little less than 50% of that being -- or 40% of that being associated with operating pension.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Thanks a lot. It's helpful.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: I think we have one more, Frances?

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Yes, I had one question in Oil & Gas again. Measurement and Control I think was the one piece of that that you had high hopes for a year ago. It fell short of those.

And it sounded like you thought it would come back in 2014, and now it sounds like you're a bit more circumspect. So maybe if you could talk a little bit about Measurement and Control, what are your current expectations there for this year?

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, I think it's -- we are expecting flattish, maybe up marginally, but nothing really -- nothing substantial. But I think we showed you guys at the Outlook Meeting that we still expect strong top-line and bottom-line growth in Oil & Gas; and that is reflective of Measurement and Control in the flattish range.

So that is kind of where we are. I think it's pretty consistent with what other people in the industry say as well.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, got it. But you don't anticipate a large wave of downstream projects in the US to push up orders there any time soon?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, we are hopeful, but that is not the base plan. The base plan is, I would say, like that it's bottomed and we'll see flattish growth in 2014. We're taking cost out and stuff like that.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Then just within Healthcare, most industrial markets in emerging markets have slowed over the last two years. Healthcare has been an exception. I guess your Q4 emerging markets growth numbers were not great, or certainly were lower than what you'd seen in the last 12 months.

Is that anything, you think, to be concerned about? In terms of, is that maybe reflecting a lag versus broader economic slowdowns? Or you think it is blip, and Healthcare in emerging markets should remain (multiple speakers)?

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, there is one -- there is just -- we had a real strong fourth quarter in Russia last year, and it was down substantially this year. Net of that, Healthcare growth markets were still pretty good. China was a little bit slower, but not concerning. And the other growth markets were pretty good.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks.

JEFF IMMELT: Great. Everybody, I just want to say thanks to Trevor. Did a great job, fantastic, and I know -- I appreciate everybody's acknowledgment for Trevor. Fantastic for all of us. Thanks for a great job, and welcome to Matt.

And Trevor is sprinting to the door, guys. So thanks for your great support of Trevor as well.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thank you very much, Jeff, and I thank everyone else for all the fun we've had together the last 5.5 years.

And best of luck, Matt. I know you'll love the job and do great.

The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today. Our first-quarter 2014 earnings webcast is on Thursday, April 17. And as always, we will be around to take your questions. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your presentation. Thank you for your participation and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140119ea1h0012x
  


 HD
 Q3  2013  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,783 words
   PD
18 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Shikwana and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Shikwana. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's third-quarter webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release as well as the presentation slides at 6.30 this morning, which is something new for us. Slides are available for download or printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking or based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Jeff Bornstein. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks and good morning, everyone. Look, GE had a good third quarter in an improving environment. Our orders grew 19% with great balance.

Our growth markets were up 22%. The US was up 18% and Europe up 17%.

Earnings per share was up 18%, ex-unusual items. Industrial earnings were up 11% with six of seven segments growing, four by double digits.

Capital continues to execute on our strategic objectives. Earnings were up 13%, while our financial position continued to strengthen. We had $0.04 of uncovered charges in the quarter and no Industrial gains.

Operations were very strong. Margins grew by 120 basis points behind strong value gap performance and simplification. Our Industrial cost-out reached $1 billion through the third quarter, and we're significantly ahead of our plan.

CFOA is up 5% operationally. This includes a $3.9 billion dividend from GE Capital year-to-date.

We've returned about $14 billion to investors year-to-date, well on our way to our $18 billion goal. And at the same time we continue to invest in strategic acquisitions like Avio and Lufkin. So overall, this was a good quarter for the GE team.

Orders were a highlight for the quarter. Overall growth was up 19% with strength in equipment and services.

Every business grew, and backlog reached $229 billion. Equipment orders grew 32% with strength across the board, and orders price was flat.

The orders profile is very encouraging. Services was up 5% with real strength in Power Gen Services and Aviation commercial spares.

Total orders in the US and Europe were both robust, and seven growth regions had double-digit orders growth. These include Australia, Canada, Middle East, North Africa, Turkey up 17%, Africa up 18%, Russia up 51%, China up 18%, and ASEAN up 100%.

Power & Water had a solid orders performance with growth of 19%. And note, this number did not include any orders from Algeria. Those will be booked in the fourth quarter and in 2014.

Orders growth in backlog supports business expansion in the fourth quarter and through 2014.

We are making progress on our strategic growth initiatives. Growth market revenues were up 13% with six of nine regions up double digits. This remains a key strength for the Company due to our geographic diversity and strong share position.

Services grew by 7% with margins up 60 basis points. Aviation spare shipments grew by 25%.

Last week we had our second Minds + Machines summit where we announced 14 new service offerings in analytics and software. Our Industrial Internet orders should exceed $500 million for the year.

We continue to drive our technical advantage. We announced an 8-gigawatt heavy-duty gas turbine win in Algeria. We will launch 50 Healthcare NPIs for the year, and we are gaining share.

The LEAP engine is ahead of schedule, and the GE9X recorded first order and is well positioned for the Boeing 777 launch. We have the only locomotive to meet the Tier 4 standard, and we continue to launch new Appliance products with strong acceptance in retail and contract channels.

So with a strong backlog and good growth initiatives, I think we are well positioned for solid organic growth in the fourth quarter and 2014.

On margins, look, we are encouraged about our progress. GE's margins grew by 120 basis points in the quarter and are up 40 basis points year-to-date. Five of seven businesses grew margins in the quarter, and all are flat or up for the year, excluding the impact of acquisitions.

Our results are programmatic and sustainable. Our value gap is positive, $660 million year-to-date, and will continue to grow.

We have achieved our $1 billion simplification goal in only three quarters, and we will drive substantial upside for the year. And there will be no Industrial gains in this quarter.

Power & Water had a solid quarter with improved mix, strong value gap, and good simplification efforts. And they should sustain this momentum into the fourth quarter.

So we are on track to achieve our 70 basis points goal. Our results in service margins, value gap, and simplification are accelerating.

All businesses should have positive margin growth in fourth quarter. And we still have a slight hedge in our plan.

On cash we had a solid quarter for cash. Our Industrial CFOA has grown by 5% year-to-date, ex- the NBCU deal-related taxes which show up in CFOA.

We are still targeting to receive up to $6.5 billion of GE Capital dividends paid to the parent. We remain on track to achieve our $14 billion to $17 billion CFOA goal for the year.

We have significantly higher revenues in the fourth quarter than third quarter, driving higher CFOA by year-end. And our balance sheet remains extremely strong, with $87 billion of consolidated cash.

Our capital allocation remains disciplined and balanced. Year-to-date we have return $13.9 billion to investors in dividends and buyback.

Meanwhile, we have invested $8.6 billion in acquisitions that will improve our long-term growth rate. We are on track to return $18 billion to investors in 2013.

And now over to Jeff to review operations.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I will start with third-quarter total results. Revenue from continuing operations of $35.7 billion was down 1% from last year.

Industrial sales of $25.3 billion was up 2%, driven principally by Oil & Gas and Aviation, partly offset by Power & Water as you can see on the right side of the page. GE Capital revenues were down 5% to $10.7 billion on much lower investment.

Operating earnings of $3.7 billion were down 3%, and operating earnings per share were flat at $0.36. That includes $0.02 for the Avio acquisition charges and $0.02 of restructuring in the quarter.

We also no longer have earnings from the NBCU JV, which was $0.02 in the third quarter of 2012. I will cover these items on the next page.

Continuing EPS of $0.32 includes the impact of non-operating pension, and net earnings per share includes discontinued operations, which I will also cover on the next page.

As Jeff said, CFOA year-to-date was $7.8 billion with solid Industrial performance, and $2 billion of GE Capital dividends were paid in the quarter. The GE tax rate in the quarter was 20% and the GE Capital tax rate was zero.

GE Capital continued to have benefits associated with loss recapture in real estate and tax-efficient asset reductions. In the second quarter, we said that we expected GE Capital tax rate to be in the midsingle digits for the year, but that could be lower depending upon IRS resolutions that could happen in the fourth quarter, as well as expected dispositions in the fourth quarter which could impact tax rates.

On the right side of the page, segment results were positive. Industrial segment profit was up 11%, with six of seven Industrial segments improving.

GE Capital also had a positive quarter, growing earnings 13% versus 2012. I will cover all the segments in more details on the following pages.

So for one-time items, in total we had $0.04 of charges in the quarter, $0.02 related to Avio as we discussed in September. Avio had a number of pre-existing contractual arrangements with GE Aviation, and US GAAP requires us to record the fair value impact of effectively settling those pre-existing contracts.

We also had an inventory fair value adjustment in the quarter. These resulted in a $0.02 charge. Going forward, we will benefit from the efficiencies that Avio has achieved over time.

We also had $0.02 of restructuring and other charges as we continue to take actions to reduce our cost structure. This was $0.01 higher than we had originally planned for the third quarter, as we continue to identify attractive projects that will lower our structural costs and rationalize our footprint.

On the right side of the page, we included a walk from recorded to adjusted operating results. In the third-quarter 2012 we earned $0.36, which included $0.02 of income related to NBC. In the third quarter of this year we earned $0.36; but, as discussed, that included $0.02 of the Avio-related charges and $0.02 of restructuring. If you adjust for those items, operating EPS is $0.40 in the third quarter of 2013 versus $0.34 in the third quarter of 2012, up 18%.

For discontinued operations we had an $82 million after-tax impact in the quarter driven by GE Money Japan. We booked $79 million of additional reserves to reflect ongoing claims related to Gray Zone.

We ended the quarter with $527 million in total reserves. There were really no material change in WMC in the quarter, with a very slight reserve adjustment.

On the bottom of the page is a summary of our operating EPS and the Industrial NBC gain and restructuring. With $0.02 in restructuring charges in the third quarter, that brings our year-to-date to a net zero impact between the first-quarter gains and year-to-date restructuring.

So with that I will begin covering our business results, and we will start with Power & Water. Orders of $5.9 billion were up 19%. European orders were up 9%, led by renewables and water. However, PGS was down 18%.

Equipment orders were 37% higher at $3 billion. Thermal orders were $886 million, down 15%.

The business had orders for 27 heavy-duty gas turbines in the quarter versus 29 a year ago. Renewable orders were strong, up over 100% to $1.2 billion with continuing strength in the US.

Distributed Power was also strong, with orders of $700 million, up 62%, driven by Aero demand. Service orders were up 4% to $2.9 billion; up 7% excluding Europe. Despite continuing European softness, PGS orders were up 8% to $1.8 billion, and we booked 15 Advanced Gas Path upgrades versus four a year ago.

Overall, orders pricing was down 80 basis points driven by equipment down 2.9%; partially offset by services, up 1.4%. Thermal OPI was down 1.4% and Wind was down 1.2%.

Revenue of $6.5 billion was down 10% driven by lower volume.

Equipment revenue was down 13% on lower Gas and Wind volume. We shipped 22 gas turbines versus 35 in the third quarter of 2012, and we shipped 407 fewer wind turbines, down 40%. This is partially offset by Distributed Power strength, up 44%, with 76 unit deliveries versus 48 a year ago.

Service revenue of $2.8 billion was down 5% driven by PGS down 6%. Higher AGP volume was offset by lower new unit spares.

Segment profit of $1.289 billion was up 9% in the quarter. The improvement was driven by positive value gap and Distributed Power strength and better cost performance. SG&A was down 10% in the quarter and margins improved 330 basis points.

Oil & Gas orders were $4.4 billion, up 4%. Equipment orders were $2.3 billion, up 3%.

We saw strong Turbomachinery orders growth, up 17%, led by a large midstream LNG order in Russia, and Lufkin orders of $243 million, partially offset by Subsea down 41%. Subsea orders tend to be very lumpy and are up 17% over the last 12 months.

Service orders grew 6% in the quarter. Drilling and surface was up 21%, subsea up 27%, partially offset by Measurement & Control down 8%. Total backlog was up 35% versus prior year, and orders pricing was down 20 basis points, with year-to-date remaining positive and up 70 basis points.

Revenue of $4.3 billion was up 18%, up 9% ex-acquisitions. Equipment was up 19%, driven by Subsea up 16% and Drilling and Surface up 13%, offset by Measurement and Control down 3% in the quarter. Measurement and Control was a disappointment in the quarter as we saw continued softness in the market.

Service revenues grew 18% with strength in global services, up 13%; Subsea up 43%; and Drilling and Surface up 23%.

Segment profit of $519 million was up 11%. That is up 7% ex-acquisitions, primarily driven by higher volume and a strong value gap.

Margins were down 90 basis points on a reported basis; down 30 basis points excluding the impact of Lufkin in the quarter. This is lower than expected, primarily driven by a softer Measurement and Control market, and there were some project delays.

So with that we will talk about Aviation and Healthcare. First, Aviation.

Aviation had another really strong quarter. Orders of $7.8 billion were up 51%, with equipment orders up 92%.

Commercial engine orders were $3.8 billion, up 4 times, led by $1.6 billion of CFM orders, up 9 times, including $1.4 billion of LEAP orders. GE90 orders were $1.2 billion, also up 4 times.

Military orders continued their expected weakness, down 30%.

Service orders of $2.7 billion were up 9%. Commercial service orders were up 15%.

The average daily order rate for commercial spares was $24 million, up 9% in the quarter. Our fleet utilization year-to-date is up 3.1%, and overhauls in the quarter were up 23%.

Military service orders fell 6% as flight hours continue to decline and destocking continues across the military.

Orders pricing in the quarter was up 1.9% with improvements in both equipment and service. Revenue of $5.4 billion was up 12%, up 10% excluding Avio.

Equipment revenue was 10% higher. We shipped 273 military engines, up 12%. We also shipped 559 commercial engines in the quarter, up 8%, including 26 GEnx engines.

Service revenues were 14% higher, driven by strong spare parts sales of $25.9 million a day, which was up 25%. Military service revenue was down 17%.

Segment profit of $1.1 billion was up 18% driven by strong volume and value gap, with sales price up 3%. Margin rates improved 100 basis points versus last year, and were up 70 basis points excluding Avio.

Just as a note, Avio helped margins and Lufkin was a hurt on margins in the quarter. So overall, acquisitions were about a 10 basis points drag in the quarter on segment margins.

Next is Healthcare. Orders in Healthcare of $4.7 billion were up 2%. Equipment orders were up 6% to $2.7 billion.

Developed markets were up 1%, driven by strong US equipment orders, up 8%. Europe was flat. Japan was down 24%, down 6% excluding the effect of FX. Emerging markets were up 14%, driven by China up 33%, Latin America up 28%, partially offset by Asia-Pacific, down 16%.

Just a little bit on modality. HCS was up 5%; MR was up 13%; CT down 8%; and Ultrasound was very strong, up 14%. Life Sciences was up 10% and diagnostic guidance up 5%. So pretty good strength across the modalities.

Service orders of $1.9 billion were down 4%. Revenue of $4.3 billion was flat, driven by growth markets up 5%, led by China up 13%, offset by developed markets down 2%. Both the US and Europe were up 2%, offset by Japan.

Segment profit of $665 million was higher by 7% as cost productivity from our restructuring efforts more than offset lower price. Margin rates expanded in the quarter 110 basis points.

Moving on to Transportation, orders of $1.6 billion were up 34%. Equipment orders were up 65%, driven by a large North American locomotive order for 275 units deliverable in 2014. And mining really continues to be soft.

Service orders were 8% higher, driven by solid growth in locomotive services, partly offset by very weak demand for mining parts. Revenues of $1.4 billion were flat year-over-year.

The strong service growth of 17% was offset by equipment revenue, down 14%. Locomotive shipments were approximately flat with the third quarter, deliveries of 147 compared to 146 a year ago.

Operating profit of $306 million was up 15% with margins better by 300 basis points. The improvement was principally driven by positive value gap and services growth.

Energy Management. Orders of $2 billion were up 16% with strength in Power Conversion up 19%, Digital Energy up 23%, and Intelligent Platforms up 16%. Backlog of $4.6 billion is up 29% versus prior year.

Despite the order strength, operations were disappointing in the third quarter. Revenues were down 3%, driven by Digital Energy down 27% on weak meter demand and some project execution.

As a result op profit was down 57% to $18 million. Positive value gap was more than offset by the negative volume leverage.

Home & Business Solutions had a very strong quarter, driven by Appliances. Housing starts were up 19%, with single-family better by 16%, multifamily up 27%.

Revenues of $2.1 billion were higher by 7%, led by an 11% increase in Appliances, partly offset with a 1% decrease in Lighting. Segment profit of $77 million was up 28%, but Appliances op profit was up 73% driven by positive value gap and productivity, partly offset by Lighting. Margins improved 60 basis points in the quarter.

Next I will cover GE Capital. GE Capital revenue was $10.7 billion, down 5%, driven by lower assets. Assets were down 7% or $40 billion year-over-year.

Net income of $1.9 billion was up 13% from prior year, primarily driven by lower losses, better portfolio performance, and higher tax benefits which more than offset lower assets and gains. We ended the quarter with $385 billion of ending net investment, down $39 billion from last year and down $7 billion sequentially.

Our net interest margin increased 22 basis points versus third quarter of 2012 to 5% and was flat with the second quarter. Volume was up 6% in the quarter, with new business ROI over 2%.

And our Tier 1 common on a Basel I basis improved to 11.3%, driven by a reduction in assets. And that is after paying $2 billion of dividends in the quarter.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continued to be strong, with delinquency rates stable to improving across the portfolio. In addition, non-earning assets totaled $6.4 billion, down $1.9 billion versus third quarter of 2012.

We have substantially completed all our debt issuance for 2013 at $32 billion, and we have reduced our CP balance of $33 billion ahead of the plan to bring down CP by $35 billion by year-end. Liquidity was very strong, ending the quarter at $76 billion, up $7 billion from the second quarter.

Now to walk through segment performance, CLL, the Commercial Lending and Leasing business, ended the third quarter with $170 billion of assets, down 5% from last year, driven by a reduction of non-core assets of $5 billion as well as $4 billion in our core book, primarily from asset sales, including the Fleet Canada or franchise real estate transactions we've spoken about.

[On book] core volume in Americas was up, was 2% higher than third quarter 2012. And new business returns remain attractive at about 2% returns on investment, despite continued excess liquidity in the market.

Earnings of $479 million were down 15% driven by lower assets and impairments in our corporate aircraft portfolio in the Americas business. Asset quality was stable.

Consumer segment ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets, flat with last year. Net income of $889 million was up 19%, primarily driven by lower loss as a result of not repeating the reserve modeling changes that we implemented last year in this quarter and in the first quarter of this year. Lower losses were partially offset by no repeat of the $80 million gain on a partial sale of our interest in the Thai Bank in the third quarter of 2012.

The U.S. Retail business earned $665 million in the third quarter, up 50% from last year, again largely driven by not repeating the reserving change and on strong asset growth of 11% in the quarter. Our core European business earned $111 million in the quarter.

The Real Estate team had another very solid quarter. Assets ended the quarter at $40 billion, down 28%, but down $2 billion sequentially. The equity book is down 27% from a year ago to $16 billion.

Net income of $464 million was up more than 2 times versus 2012. That was driven by lower losses in marks as well as impairments -- as well as higher tax benefits.

The business sold 77 properties with a book value of $2.1 billion for about $100 million of gains in the quarter. That is down slightly year-over-year.

The business originated $1.8 billion of debt volume in the quarter with an average ROI of 2.3%. And asset quality continues to improve, with 30-day delinquencies at 141 basis points, 68 basis points lower sequentially.

In the verticals GECAS earned $173 million. That is down 31%, driven by higher impairments as part of our annual impairment review.

The impairments were $55 million higher in 2013 at $190 million. The impairments were principally driven by valuations on cargo aircraft, specifically MD-11s.

Overall, the portfolio is in great shape, with only 10 MD-11 freighters remaining in our fleet, with a value of about $150 million. And we ended the quarter with zero delinquency and no aircraft on the ground.

EFS earnings were up 14% to $150 million, driven by higher operating income.

So overall GE Capital continues to perform well. Its results were in line with our strategy.

And as we look ahead to the fourth quarter in terms of runway, I expect the business to earn around $2 billion, plus or minus, in line with the third quarter and adjusting for impairments in GECAS which should not repeat and some tax benefits.

We are currently working on a number of transactions in the fourth quarter, most notably the sale of our remaining interest in BAY, the Thai Bank, and the IPO of our Swiss consumer business. At this point we expect that any benefits from these transactions we will largely offset with continued portfolio repositioning, but they could impact the tax rate in the quarter and the year.

With that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Jeff. Thanks. We really have no material changes to the 2013 operating objective framework. Our Industrial earnings will expand by double digits in the second half, and we are on track for solid growth in the year.

We have no change to our expectations in GE Capital. We continue to originate business at high returns while repositioning our capital portfolio, and earnings growth remains solid in GE Capital.

Corporate costs reflect our Avio adjustment that Jeff described earlier. And we continue to see good opportunity for restructuring and hope to position these efforts to continue. Cash from revenues remain on track.

We should see earnings growth accelerate in the fourth quarter with more volume and lower cost. And with the large backlog and improving margins we feel good about 2014.

We will have several communication sessions with investors in the fourth quarter. In November, Keith and Jeff will update our portfolio and business strategy at GE Capital and give you a sense for our long-term goals and simplification across the Company. In December I will give you a strategic update for GE and our outlook for 2014; so we look forward to those sessions.

In summary, we are making progress on our investor objectives for the year. Our Industrial earnings grew by double digits in third quarter and we expect a stronger fourth quarter. Strength is broad-based, and we expect Power & Water to be a key contributor going forward in the fourth quarter and into 2014.

We grew margins by 120 basis points in the quarter, and we expect to hit 70 basis points for the year. In the event we have any gains in the fourth quarter, we expect them to be applied to restructuring.

GE Capital continues to strengthen and we are on track for up to $6.5 billion of cash to be returned to the parent. We expect organic growth of at least 5% in the fourth quarter for the Industrial segments, and we have solid momentum in growth markets, services, and NPI. And we had more favorable comparisons in Power & Water.

So we are on track, and we are on track to return substantial cash to investors this year. So the team executed well in the quarter, and with the strong backlog and expanding margins, investors should be confident in GE's future.

So, Trevor, with that, let's turn it over to you and take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. I know there is another earnings call coming up, so Shikwana, let's open the phone lines.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, everyone. So, the fact that we did $100 million more restructuring this quarter, do you anticipate more restructuring in the fourth quarter? I realize, Jeff, you just said if there were gains you would offset that that.

But how does that pertain to your plan? And how are you thinking about the restructuring opportunity?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, maybe -- why don't I start, and then Jeff, turn it to you. But I -- we continue to have good opportunities for restructuring throughout the Company, and I would expect us to do some in the fourth quarter. But again, I think if we have gains we expect those to be offset with restructuring.

JOHN INCH: Okay.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I don't have a lot to add to that. I think that is right. I think the more we get deeper into the simplification effort, we just see increasing numbers of opportunities to take costs out of the Company and make the Company faster and more customer-centric.

So I think we will do restructuring in the fourth quarter. And as Jeff said, more likely than not we will reflect the gains in the quarter we expect as well.

JOHN INCH: And Jeff Bornstein, you have been at this for a little bit of time now. As you said, are you finding more opportunity? Or is it still a little early in the process before you would care to comment? In terms of (multiple speakers) cost out, sorry.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. I would say around the simplification effort, I think every day we identify more opportunities to do what we do smarter. More shared services; a smaller manufacturing footprint; rationalizing capacity; executing our functions in a more consolidated way.

So I would say the list is growing with time, and we are in the early innings of the simplification effort in this Company. So I am quite emboldened with what we can accomplish over the next few years.

JOHN INCH: And just -- I want to go back to the fourth quarter. I mean, you guys had great results this quarter. It still is a pretty big V though in terms of -- and I think the delta is really expectations around Power shipments.

Is that really still on track? It just looks like it's a very high contributor to the quarter versus even historical years, although you did put up the big margins this quarter.

Just -- is there anything you can say to us about the fourth quarter? I don't know, progress to date or what you are seeing or anything like that.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, I think Power was obviously a big contributor in the third quarter. We are ahead a little bit on aeroderivatives, and the fourth-quarter ramp for Power & Water I think we feel very good about. When we think about units for the fourth quarter, the large units, gas turbines, etc., most of that is in backlog, better than 95% of it.

So I think we feel very good about how we feel Power is moving into the fourth quarter. And we have derisked the fourth quarter a little bit with the outperformance here in the third quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, John, so we have got -- I think you start at 40, not 36; so you go from 40 and march from there. We typically get a lot more revenue in Q4 than Q3. It is typical for us to get 300 basis points on margin Q4 versus Q3.

And Power & Water is very back-end loaded, as we have always said. So you've got a bunch of stuff that really I think -- a little bit better in GE Capital; I think you've got a lot of stuff that says we are kind of ready for a very strong fourth quarter.

JOHN INCH: Perfect. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, everybody. Wanted to get a sense, when I look at the results. One of the things that really stands out to me was the Power & Water orders, particularly excluding Algeria. I mean, up 37%.

I mean, I really wasn't aware that anybody in the world was buying a gas turbine right now or distributed power for that matter. So can you give us a little granularity, help us understand where geographically these orders are coming from, and just a little help here?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes. So when you look at orders in the quarter geographically for -- we will start with gas turbines. In the resource-rich regions, we were 18 units in the quarter versus 22, so down 4 there.

Middle East we were down 10 units from 11 to 21. A little bit better in Asia; we were flat, 5 units versus 5 units year-over-year.

Most of the order strength really for Power & Water has been around our aeroderivatives units have been very strong, and our wind units have been incredibly strong. So in the third quarter we had 477 orders in the developed markets on wind. That is up 390 units, and that explains most of the strength around wind; and the balance is really aero.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Scott, if you look at Q4, we expect Power & Water orders to be at the high end of the range of what we talked about. So my hunch is that the orders will be closer to the 115 than the 100.

And a lot of that is Middle East. So we will book some of the Algerian orders in Q4. We have got some big orders in Saudi, some nice orders in Russia, a couple in Africa, a couple in Brazil.

And on the aeroderivative market we are seeing pretty good growth in places like Canada, Middle East. So you've just got to be -- I think it is -- the GGO and the investment we have made in emerging markets I think has really helped us collect the orders.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's very helpful. Lastly, guys, I mean there's -- Jeff, the big theme of the year really for your communications has been simplification. You put a couple sentences on that in the annual report last year, and you were able to sell the other half of NBCU, which I think helps a lot.

But we haven't seen a lot of other portfolio actions. What is holding you back?

The Wall Street Journal reported that there is chatter around spinning off the credit card business, but we haven't seen any announcements there. Is this stuff all just being vetted at present, and we are likely to see some announcements in the next couple months? Or is there -- maybe you can just help us understand what's (multiple speakers)?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, these things always take a little bit of time, but we are still planning staged exits of the value-maximizing platforms of GE Capital. We have got a big meeting set November 15 with Keith and Jeff; I think there will be more clarity at that time on the Capital side.

And we continue -- and the rest of the Company continue to look at ways to make the Company more streamlined and more effective. But you are going to see those in good time.

I think we just want to be thorough in our planning, and you will get a lot more details soon.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Very helpful. Thanks, guys, and congrats on the margin line.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, thanks. Thanks, Scott.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks. Good morning. Just going back to Power & Water, that was obviously the big driver of upside this quarter; and congratulations on the margins there.

But $100 million of EBIT growth year-over-year with sales down $700 million, I understand price gap was a big benefit as well as simplification. But just want to confirm that -- with service down 5%, that is a negative mix, and big volume deleverage on Gas and Wind. I just want to confirm that 3Q was a good run rate for 4Q and beyond.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, Nigel, what I would say is, I would say the third quarter was slightly better than even what I had thought. Just by a little bit, but a little bit better.

We had better mix. So when you have more aeroderivatives and less Wind, that is a mix adder.

And that we've got the simplification efforts, what Jeff said, with margins -- or with value gap and with SG&A down 10%, that really -- it is a much leaner organization.

And then when you look at Q4 you are going to get kind of a bow wave of more Wind business, aeroderivatives are still pretty strong; heavy-duty gas turbines are still pretty strong. And I think what you're going to see in Q4 is revenue growth, op profit growth, and margin growth.

So what you are going to see in Q4 in Power & Water I think is pretty typical of what you're going to see, I think, going forward in the business into 2014.

NIGEL COE: Okay, understood. And just, obviously you broke apart the old Energy business into I guess two and a half segments, Power & Water, Energy Management, and (inaudible) Oil & Gas. Are we seeing the benefit of that simplification through here? Or is it more the restructuring actions that you've taken year-to-date?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, gosh, I would say, Nigel, as we took out the [layer] we got hundreds of millions of dollars of benefits as we did that. So I think that was just a starting point.

And then inside each business -- look, we are committed to getting SG&A as a percentage of revenue down to a world-class, best-in-class level; and we are on our way. We made good progress, but we are not where we want to be yet.

So you are seeing some of that benefits for sure show up in the businesses. But we have got a ways to go yet.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Just finally, going back to the Jeff Bornstein's comments on BAY. If that creeps into 4Q, obviously the intention is to offset that with restructuring. That could be a pretty meaningful gain.

So I am just wondering, do you have [portfolio] opportunities already set to absorb that kind of gain? And maybe any [current] in terms of the focus areas from here for that kind of restructuring action?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I mean we are constantly in flight on value maximizing and the Redbook and GE Capital, non-core book that we have talked about. So the gain could be sizable; we expect that it will be quite profitable for us.

And we are working a list of items to position the portfolio for how we want to take it forward. So I think the team has got a pipeline of stuff they are working.

NIGEL COE: Understood. Thank you very much.

JEFF IMMELT: Nigel, the point Jeff made earlier -- I think on both, I mean we still have to see how the Swiss IPO goes and BAY, but we could have gains in both those.

NIGEL COE: Yes, okay. Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thank you. So just on the margin performance again, the overall Industrial margin was up, as you say, 120 bps. Services was up 60. So that means equivalent was up 160, 170 bps off flat revenues.

When you are thinking about the mix going forwards or, well, the mix in your equipment backlog today and what that means for revenue going forwards, do you think that kind of equipment margin growth is sustainable? Because obviously you will have a lot of mix hit coming into that equipment margin from Wind and so on in the next six months.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I think what I would say right now is that we are running ahead of the game on value gap. We are through three-quarters of the year; we're almost $700 million of value gap. We expect that to continue, to accelerate into the fourth quarter.

On simplification and restructuring, Jeff talked about the fact that we're at the $1 billion goal through the third quarter. We expect that to continue and accelerate into fourth quarter.

So I think on the cost side of the equation we have got enough levers that we are working very dramatically to deal with the fact that we are going to have more equipment shipments as we move into the fourth quarter. And I think those cost opportunities are going to accelerate into 2014.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Thanks. Then within Oil & Gas, 18% revenue growth, much more subdued profit growth, and obviously the margins were down. I guess, what is behind the confidence that the margins in Oil & Gas year-on-year will be up in Q4? Because you had a pretty good margin in Q4 last year, and you are coming off a Q3 where the margin was down year-on-year.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Again, I would say we did have some execution issues in the third quarter, getting the backlog out and getting it out at the cost structure it was supposed to go out. We expect that we are going to improve on that in the fourth quarter.

We have got a volume lift in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter. We expect with all the cost actions and the value gap we have created in the business over the first three quarters, we expect to get some leverage on that in the fourth quarter.

So I think we feel pretty good about the fact that we will grow margin rates in the fourth quarter in Oil & Gas. They will not grow to the levels we thought they would for the year, and that is really mostly about the M&C business.

We came into the year thinking the business was going to grow something like 16%; we're low single digits. And that is a real mix challenge for us. But we are trying to get it done with better execution in the shop and better execution on the cost structure.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Thanks. And lastly very quickly, just US, your gas turbine aftermarket business. Gas-fired Power Gen consumption is down 9% or 10% year-to-date. What are you thinking about your US gas services business looking out from here?

JEFF IMMELT: The orders were pretty good. We can try to get back to you with that, but --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Or I could tell you.

JEFF IMMELT: Do you have it, Jeff?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, just give me one second.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say while Jeff is getting it, the quoting activity in North America is actually higher now in gas turbines than we have seen in a while. So I think we are guardedly optimistic at least on the unit side for 2014.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I think in the US we have been pretty strong. I think we are up 8% PGS in the US in the third quarter. So there is still some strength in the US.

As we said, Europe was top-down 18% on services related to heavy-duty gas turbine. But sequentially that is a bit of an improvement from where we were in the first and second quarter.

I think really what is driving us here in the third and fourth quarter in North America around PGS growth is our Advanced Gas Path upgrades. We did 15 in the third quarter versus 4 a year ago; we expect to do more than that in the fourth quarter.

And that is very good business for us at very high margins. So I think we see a way forward here around services.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Ritchie, Goldman Sachs.

JOE RITCHIE, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, good morning, everyone. I just wanted to tackle this margin question a little differently. As you look at the 4Q you've got to -- in order to hit your 70 basis point target, margins have to expand by about 170 basis points; and the comp is a little bit tougher. Did about 17.3 last year.

So can you help me understand across each of these different Industrial segments which segments you think are going to be above or below that 170 number? And is it going to be disproportionately skewed towards Power & Water getting much better?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Joe, I can start, and then maybe Jeff kicks in. But I think we see pretty broad-based expansion in Q4. Power & Water expands, but it is not the biggest driver. And we have got every business up a bit; and a couple, maybe three or four businesses up 100 basis points plus. I don't know, Jeff, you want to --?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Well, let me go back to the framework we said we set for people. We described the businesses in one of three ways. We said the businesses we thought would grow margins for the year better than 70 basis points; those that would grow 0 to 70; and those that we expected to be flat.

I think if we relooked at framework today we would say Oil & Gas is clearly going to grow margins less than 70 basis points; we thought they would do better than that. And Energy Management I would say is on a trend today to grow margins between zero and 70 basis points, not the greater than 70 basis points we thought.

In contrast to that, I think Transportation is going to be much stronger than what we originally said. We originally thought they would be flat, but we think they are going to grow margins pretty substantially for the year.

And then we have a shot here -- we will see how Appliance strength looks in the fourth quarter, but the Appliance business actually may push through the zero to 70 category to better than 70. So I think when you -- and Aviation and Healthcare as well and Power & Water are going to be right about where we said they would be.

So I think those are really the changes, which is better than a zero to 70 improvement, so.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay. No, that is helpful color. I guess a follow-up to that is I know that you booked a big Algeria order and there is some short cycle --

JEFF IMMELT: Joe, Joe, Joe, Joe, Joe, we didn't book the Algeria order in the quarter.

JOE RITCHIE: Right, it is going to book, it is going to come through orders in 4Q. But it is also book and ship on the aeroderivatives. I think there were 26 aeroderivatives that are going to book and ship in 4Q.

My question is based on what you either already have in backlog today or what you know is going into backlog in 4Q. How much more do you have to do to get to the margin targets that you have set out?

JEFF IMMELT: I think the Power & Water is almost all in backlog.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, so what I would say is on the unit side, gas turbines, wind turbines, more than 95% of what we will do in the fourth quarter is in backlog today.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Our service business runs 50% to 60% backlog, and that is kind of where we sit today. I think within that we have very good line of sight to what we are going to do on the AGPs in the quarter. So I think we are largely in pretty good shape.

We will probably do about 70 Distributed Power units in the quarter and we're in reasonable shape on those too. They tend to be a little bit shorter cycle. So I think we have pretty good visibility.

JOE RITCHIE: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: So, two things I would love to dig into. The first one is this pricing versus cost value gap. What was the shipping price index? You know, the industrial price index for shipments overall in the quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Give me one second, Steve.

STEVEN WINOKER: While you are doing that, my real question here is -- this has been such a tremendous tailwind across the businesses. And as we look out and we look at the sustainability based on the order pricing over time, and I start staring into next year and relative to commodities. The question is -- I know you guys say you feel good about it, but maybe give us a little more confidence about what drives your conviction that you can continue to create a positive value gap there as we look out longer-term past the fourth quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, we still -- Steve, we have got to do detailed business plans, I think, for 2014. But we have been running positive OPI on pricing on orders.

I think we expect across most of the businesses that is going to continue. The early reads I have gotten on direct material deflation for next year and material productivity, but direct material deflation for next year is still pretty favorable to us.

So I think this year -- I don't know; last year we were $350 million, something like that on value gap. This year we are at $660 million --

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Just under $700 million through three quarters.

JEFF IMMELT: Just under $700 million on the way to a higher number than that. I think, Steve, we're going to be positive again next year and that will be something I will give you more flavor for in the outlook meeting in December.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, the selling price index in the quarter was 70 basis points positive.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Then another question. When you think about Avio and some of the capital deployment, and I guess the pricing, and the $0.02 charge as you fair market valued the pricing on GAAP, how does that -- did that change your view of the financial metrics for the deal originally? And how do you think about that?

Maybe also broader context on Oil & Gas and some of those, the M&A, that you have now gotten a lot more track record now behind you. How are you thinking about that, Jeff, in terms of performance relative to your original expectations?

JEFF IMMELT: Well let me give Jeff the Avio question, yes.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: What I would say, Steve, on Avio is I think what part of those fair value adjustments tell you is the business was actually more profitable than what we thought we were buying, when we finally got in there to see a lot of the detail. Because of antitrust constraints we couldn't see a lot of detail around parts of their aviation business.

So the adjustments were larger than we expected initially, but they are larger for all the right reasons. Meaning the margins on the parts, particularly GE90, they have gotten a ton of productivity over the last number of years since they have been in the GE90 program. So that will work well with us or for us going forward.

JEFF IMMELT: The Avio was kind of a unique accounting convention given their supplier relationship with us. I think that is all goodness that is going to come back to us. So this is actually, I think, good, helpful.

And on the Oil & Gas stuff, look, we like the places that we are in and the deals we have done. But I think they are two different things.

STEVEN WINOKER: I just was trying to get a sense of the financial metrics also as you look back on the track record for the Oil & Gas deals a couple years ago.

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think when we do reviews with our Board, if you look at the deals we have done starting in 2011, 2012, and 2013 versus deal case, we are still running ahead on those.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Can we go back to get some color on the order pricing on Power & Water equipment coming in negative in the quarter, and also slightly negative in Oil & Gas?

Just put this in context. Is there any change in the competitive environment? Is this an FX impact? Because it does break a streak in some of the positive pricing that you have had.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I don't think -- I don't know. As it relates to Power & Water I don't think there is a huge trend change here. I think thermal pricing on units was just under 7% down. I think it is an extraordinarily competitive market globally.

I don't think anything has really changed there. Those dynamics haven't changed.

On Wind it really is a bifurcated world. In the US we have gotten really good pricing with the first six months of the year, and we feel good about where we are going with our US Wind. Internationally it is more competitive around pricing; and Wind in the quarter on OPI was down 130 basis points.

PGS was -- services was better. It was up 1.4% on Thermal.

And then Oil & Gas, we have got two specific dynamics going on. We had a really profitable order that we took in the third quarter of 2012 in the US around an LNG facility that we didn't repeat. And we had the big Russian Yamal order here in this quarter that was not nearly as profitable as that as well.

And that really drove Oil & Gas OPI down in the quarter. We expect Oil & Gas OPI in the fourth quarter to get back to a positive, and we expect it to be positive for the year, on a year-to-date basis.

DEANE DRAY: Great. I like that last point you made. Then just thinking about the fourth quarter, Jeff, you said that you are tracking well for solid organic revenue growth. The slide says you are biased towards the low end of the range, but clearly you have got more momentum here.

And I like your comment that you have got a slight hedge in the plan, so more contingency. How has that contingency changed, let's say, versus the first quarter? Because you certainly look like you've got a lot more buffer in hitting these margin targets today versus where we were in the first quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Deane, it is about the same hedge we had at the end of the second quarter. And then for us on the revenue side, basically you have got the whole -- the Company, ex-Power & Water, which has operated pretty well all year, and what you're going to see in fourth quarter is just a more normal run rate for Power & Water.

So that is really -- if you think about the range we had on the page and how I talk about the business going forward, really the only difference is Power & Water. So you're going to see a more normal quarter for Power & Water from a revenue standpoint, and that should carry forward into next year.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. So I think you said 5% Industrial revenue growth as you were exiting the slide deck before Q&A, for the fourth quarter. Is that -- that is organic?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, that is the expectation, around 5% for Q4.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. So for the year you guys are going to end up around flat for the year to up 1%, zero to 1% type of thing?

JEFF IMMELT: We think we'll be at the low end of the range in there, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, okay. Then I am just curious as to ultimately there were some moving parts here with the slide you gave in the first quarter on Power & Water. I think it was slide 5, where you guys laid out the first to the second half. And you underperformed a bit in the second quarter on pure profit of $1.1 billion versus $1.3 billion. You had $2.9 billion for the second half.

Maybe could you just tell us where you're going to be relative to that $2.9 billion for profit for Power & Water?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, I don't know -- yes, we are not going to -- I don't think we're going to guide on that.

STEVE TUSA: I mean you are obviously going to be above it, though, right, I would assume?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I don't think I can give you an answer on that. I don't think -- we don't provide guidance. I don't think I can give you that number.

Here is what I would say about third quarter to fourth quarter as the way I would think about it, and Power is a piece of this construct. Is, we will end the third quarter here on an adjusted basis at $0.40 a share.

We typically get a big volume ramp from third quarter to fourth quarter; last year that was $0.08. This year we have got a bigger ramp, volume-wise, going from third quarter to fourth quarter.

We are going to do that with a much better cost structure than what we did last year in third quarter to fourth quarter. More value gap; we're ahead of the curve on SG&A and cost savings. That is going to give us additional incremental, additional volume leverage as we move from third to fourth quarter.

So Power & Water is a piece of that framework. They are a big piece it because they have a very large volume ramp from third to fourth quarter. And I think we feel very good about the construct that we have around that.

And all of that should help us achieve the 70 basis points for the year.

JEFF IMMELT: And I would say, Steve, Power & Water is going to have positive revenue, positive op profit, and positive margins in Q4.

STEVE TUSA: Yes, right, right.

JEFF IMMELT: It is going to perform well.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Steve, the last thing I would add is if you go back the last seven years, five of the last seven years we have grown margins from third to fourth quarter better than 250 basis points. And four of the last seven years we have grown them more than 310 basis points from third quarter to fourth quarter.

STEVE TUSA: Yes, clearly. Then just on the Distributed Power stuff, I didn't quite -- again, going back to that slide where you had aero of 100 units; it sounds like you're dramatically outperforming. Was the Distributed Power -- first of all, could you just maybe talk about where the Distributed Power stuff came from this quarter?

And is this a timing issue for this year, or is that pure upside this year relative to what you expected in the fourth quarter? Because I know there was a big bunch of -- big group of Distributed Power stuff coming in the fourth quarter. It seemed to come a bit early.

JEFF IMMELT: Again, Steve, a lot of this stuff -- it is a pretty global business. I would say there is more opportunities in the Middle East and Asia, places like that.

I would say there was some more in the third quarter than what we expected. But I still expect them to have a good, solid growth in Q4 as well.

But I would say we probably at the end of the day had a few more aeroderivatives in Q3 than we originally expected.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Morning, guys. Just in terms of the restructuring gains in the fourth quarter, it sounds like you might go ahead and do some restructuring; if you do you will have some gains in Industrial. But as it plays into the 70 basis points the restructuring is in Corporate; the gains are in the segments.

Is that all gravy on top of that? There's none of that baked into getting to the 70?

JEFF IMMELT: So, Shannon, the way that I talked about it today and the way we are planning is the 70 is without gains. So basically the intent is to use the gains we have to do additional restructuring.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. But, yes, like I said, restructuring (inaudible) a lot. I know there weren't any in the quarter, but there is none in the quarter?

JEFF IMMELT: If we have them, right?

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Yes, okay. Then just on the framework, the high single-digit to low double-digit operating earnings, back at EPG you also used to show that that translated to double digit EPS growth. And now no one is there in terms of consensus.

Is this double-digit part of the equation not on the table anymore? I know it is still says high single-digits, double-digit operating earnings; but it doesn't seem like we are getting there on the EPS basis. Is that off the table at this point?

JEFF IMMELT: I mean -- look, we don't give guidance anymore, okay? So let's start with that. Again, I think you've got some stuff in Avio and stuff in Corporate. But when you look at Industrial and Capital, I actually view those exactly in the same way we have looked at them then when I was at EPG.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Shikwana, we are running up against another earnings call, so why don't we take one more question here?

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Hi, thanks for fitting me in. Last year late in the year things got a little variable out there in the economy, customers taking delivery. If we look at your backlog, wondering what the key variables are in terms of how backlog execution could play out.

Just for example, I think from Healthcare orders it would seem we would be seeing positive growth there by now.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, look, Chris. I would give you a view. I actually think the backlog is pretty firm. I don't think there's commercial issues really.

I think what Jeff talked about like in Oil & Gas is stuff that we could have executed better on. So I kind of -- we are not seeing a lot of -- we are not seeing really any kind of variability in the marketplace in terms of customers pushing back on deliveries.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great, thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Why don't we wrap up today? Thank you, everyone, for attending. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplementals data for GE Capital later this morning.

I have some announcements regarding the upcoming investor events. On Friday, November 15, we will host a GE Capital investor meeting in Norwalk, Connecticut. This meeting will begin at 10 AM. We hope to see you there.

Second, our annual outlook investor meeting with our Chairman will be held in New York City again on Wednesday, December 18. We will send out a little more information closer to that date.

Then finally, our fourth-quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be available on Friday, January 17. As always, we are available today to take your questions. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes the presentation. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020131025e9ai001rx
  


 HD
 Q2  2013  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,759 words
   PD
19 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's second-quarter webcast. Regarding materials for the webcast, we issued the press release early this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are available for download and printing at our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes, please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast there is a large group here. We have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our Vice Chairman and new CEO of GE Capital, Keith Sherin; and our new CFO for GE, Jeff Bornstein. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Trevor. Good morning, everybody. On the first page, our environment improved slightly in the second quarter. Emerging markets remained resilient while Europe stabilized. Orders in the US were the strongest we have seen in some time with 20% growth, and overall our orders group by 4% and backlog increased to $223 billion.

Our earnings were solid. Reported EPS was $0.36, but this includes $0.02 of uncovered restructuring. On a sustaining basis it would have been $0.38, up slightly from 2012, and year-to-date EPS is $0.75, up 6%.

Operations were strong in the quarter. Margins grew by 50 basis points and we are on track for 70 basis points for 2013. Our simplification efforts have resulted in $470 million of costs out year-to-date and we had a solid performance in cash.

Our disciplined and balanced capital allocation plan continues. Through the half we have returned about $10 billion to investors, well on our way to our $18 billion goal. As for M&A, we have completed Lufkin and Avio, and Avio remains on track for a third-quarter close. So all-in-all a good quarter for operating and strategic execution.

Our orders growth remains solid at plus 4%, and as I said earlier, backlog grew to $223 billion. Performance was broad-based; we had services growth in five of six businesses. Orders growth accelerated in China, the US, and Europe. Aviation and Oil & Gas remained very strong with their combined backlog growing by $7 billion.

Let me give you a few of our other highlights. Oil & Gas orders grew by 24% with double-digit growth in four of five segments. Aviation and commercial spare orders grew by 19%. Healthcare Solutions equipment orders grew by 9% in the US. Energy Management orders grew by 19%.

North American power generation service orders grew by 24%. We still have a few headwinds, like heavy duty gas turbines, but there are signs of strength. We continue to add price to backlog with orders pricing up 0.9% and we have now had positive orders price for the past six quarters. This will contribute to a positive value gap in the second half of 2013 and beyond.

Organic growth was down 1% for the quarter, but it is really a wind turbine story. Organic growth ex-Power & Water grew by 5%. Growth markets expanded by 5% with four of nine regions up by double digits.

We continue to make progress in key regions like Russia, Africa, and China. Our growth market position is a competitive advantage for GE.

Services grew by 2% with broad-based strength and we are encouraged by services and Aviation, Oil & Gas, and Transportation. Transportation services is a particular highlight with growth of 28%. We continue to be impacted by the sluggish European economy for gas turbine services and US sequestration impacted our military spares business. The service margins grew by 70 basis points and backlog grew to $166 billion.

We made solid progress across the Company with our new product launches. The Paris Air Show was very successful for GE with $26 billion of wins. We are gaining share in Healthcare with robust product launches and are expanding service offerings with new software launches in Aviation, Power, and Healthcare.

In the second half revenue will be positively impacted by Power & Water shipment timing. Specifically, 70% of our gas turbines, wind turbines, and distributed power mix will be shipped in the second half.

We had strong margin expansion with growth of 50 basis points. Every business grew in the quarter except for Home & Business Solutions, and even in that segment appliances expanded while lighting lagged. We are on track for 70 basis points for the year.

Key margin execution drivers are within our control. We will have one of the strongest value gaps in history as we generate both price and material deflation. We will manage R&D to be flat for the year. We will reduce SG&A by at least $1 billion.

We continue to execute multiple restructuring projects with attractive paybacks. And we are in the process of completing our projects for 2013 while developing a pipeline of new ideas.

A key driver for margin improvement in the second half is that Power & Water volume growth will remain on track. Overall, margins were slightly better than we expected in second quarter and that gives us more confidence going forward.

Our cash execution improved in the quarter. Our second-quarter Industrial CFOA was up 60%, excluding the impact of NBC-related taxes. In the quarter we announced that GE Capital will pay up to a $6.5 billion dividend to the parent for the year and we remain on track for our CFOA goals.

We have returned $9.9 billion to investors in the first half through dividends and buyback. This is well on our way to our $18 billion goal. Our announced deals of Lufkin and Avio will close in the second half. Both fit our model of bolt-on deals that are accretive to earnings.

We end the quarter with a consolidated cash position of $89 billion with $19 billion at the parent. This is a symbol of our financial strength and supports balanced capital allocation.

And now over to Keith. As you know, this will be his last call, but you will see him again at GE Capital and welcome to Jeff, my new partner. So, Keith, over to you.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CEO, GE CAPITAL, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Jeff, thanks. I will start with the second-quarter summary.

We had continuing operations revenues of $35 billion, that was down 4% from last year. Industrial sales of $24.6 billion are down 2% driven by Power & Water, as you can see on the right side. GE Capital revenues of $11 billion were down 3%.

Operating earnings of $3.7 billion were down 8%. Operating earnings per share of $0.36 were down 5%. As Jeff said, that includes actually $0.03 of restructuring, which I will cover on the next page, including the capital restructuring. And we also no longer have the NBCU earnings, which was $0.02 in 2012 in the second quarter.

Continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations, which we will also cover on the next page.

As Jeff covered, the CFOA was $3.7 billion, including a very strong performance in Q2 from the Industrial CFOA plus $1.9 billion of GE Capital dividends back to the parent. For taxes the GE rate of 17% for the quarter was below the 20% rate we previously communicated for the year.

We had an audit resolution with the IRS in the quarter, and because that is required to be recorded entirely in the quarter rather than spread over the year, it caused the rate to be lower in the quarter. We might have other audit resolution during the year, and depending on the outcome, we currently expect a rate of high teens to 20% for GE for the full year.

The capital rate is down from our forecast because of large benefits, including the tax efficient foreign disposition transactions as well as the recapture of prior untaxed losses of real estate. As we have previously indicated, we do expect the GE Capital rate in the mid-single digits for the year, but there could be some variability at GE Capital as well depending upon IRS audit resolutions and a tax on other possible dispositions.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Total Industrial segment profit was up 2%. Ex-Power & Water our Industrial businesses grew their segment profit by 12%. Power & Water was down in the second quarter; however, the results were a significant improvement over Q1.

GE Capital earnings were down in the second quarter, in line with the lower assets. And we will cover all the segments in more detail over the next several pages.

Before I get to the businesses, I will start with the other items page from Q2. At the top, in total we had $0.03 of restructuring and other charges in the quarter -- $0.02 related to Industrial, that is at the corporate line at the Industrial reporting, and $0.01 was in GE Capital. We continue to reduce our cost structure by lowering our SG&A headcount. We are rationalizing our footprint and this should be a nice tailwind for margins as we go into the second half.

We also had a $0.01 charge in the quarter related to an impairment for an investment that we made in Brazil, and that charge was also included in the corporate line.

We had two one-time benefits in the quarter. First, as I mentioned on the previous page, we had a favorable IRS settlement which resulted in almost 4 points lower GE tax rate in Q2 and in total contributed a $0.01 Industrial benefit.

Second, in GE Capital we exited our fleet platform in Canada, which resulted in a $0.01 benefit in the quarter. The benefit from this transaction was mostly tax related and contributed to a lower GE Capital tax rate.

For discontinued operations at the bottom of the page, we had $122 million after-tax impact in the quarter. On WMC we recorded $128 million of new pending claims, so that is down significantly over the run rates that we have been seeing. And we added $47 million of reserves in the quarter, resulting in a total reserve balance of $787 million covering both pending and future claims.

At Grey Zone we booked $76 million of additional reserves to reflect ongoing claims and we ended the quarter with $557 million in reserves.

On the bottom of the page is a summary of our operating EPS and our Industrial gains and restructuring. In the first quarter we reported $0.39 of operating EPS and that included $0.04 of net benefit as the Q1 NBCU gain was greater than our Industrial restructuring.

In Q2 we reported $0.36 and that included a $0.02 drag from Industrial restructuring. Again, in the corporate line. And we expect to have at least $0.02 more of Industrial restructuring in the second half. So for the total year we don't expect the NBCU gain and restructuring to have any impact on EPS.

So I will move on to the businesses and let me start with Power & Water. Orders of $6 billion were down 1% and Europe remained challenging, down 40%. Ex-Europe orders were up 6%.

Equipment orders of $3 billion were down 5%. Thermal orders remain soft at $690 million, down 50%. We had orders for 24 heavy duty gas turbines versus 30 last year.

We had a strong renewables quarter with orders of $1.4 billion, up 55%. Distributed power orders of $700 million were up 3% and service orders of $3 billion were up 2%. Again, ex-Europe services orders were up 13% driven by the strong US power gen services, both outages and upgrades, with orders up 29%. Overall, for Power & Water, orders pricing was up 1.6%.

Revenue of $5.7 billion was down 17% driven by lower volume. Equipment revenue of $2.6 billion was down 50%. We shipped 19 gas turbines versus 31 last year, and we shipped 351 wind turbines versus 726 last year.

Service revenue of $3.1 billion was down 3%. Power gen services revenue was down 1% in total, but up 14% ex-Europe. Again, driven by the strength in the US, which was up 20%.

Segment profit of $1,087 million was down 17% driven by the lower volume. SG&A costs were down 9%, Q2 value gap was positive, and margins increased by 10 basis points.

So Q2 showed improvement over Q1 for Power & Water. If you look at the second-half dynamics, as Jeff said, we have got a lot of volume and we expect Power & Water volume to be higher in the fourth quarter than the third quarter.

Renewables will continue to improve. Distributed power and services continue to improve. Costs are going to continue to go lower. So our current outlook is to deliver the total year framework that Jeff covered on Power & Water at EPG.

On the right side is Oil & Gas. Results in the second quarter were very strong. Orders of $5 billion were up 24%. Equipment orders of $2.8 billion were up 42% and we saw double-digit growth across all the segments.

Turbomachinery up 74%, driven by US midstream LNG orders. Subsea was up 30% driven by large projects in Indonesia and Angola. Service orders of $2.3 billion were up 8%. We saw a nice growth in global services, up 14%, and we are making significant progress in growing our subsea service business which was up 44%.

This was partially offset by measurements and controls, which was down 1%. While still down, this is up from the first quarter when M&C was down 13%, so some improvement in the market.

Our backlog grew by $1.1 billion in the quarter to $18 billion and orders pricing was up 80 basis points, our ninth quarter of positive order price increases. Revenue of $4 billion was up 9%. Equipment revenue of $2 billion was up 11%, driven by growth in subsea and drilling and surface. Service revenues of $2 billion were up 6% driven by stronger global spare parts sales.

Segment profit of $532 million was up 14% as the benefits of higher volume, positive price, and SG&A reductions more than offset higher program spending and drove 70 basis points of margin expansion.

Next is Aviation. The Aviation team had a strong quarter. Orders of $5.8 billion were up 4%. Equipment orders of $3.2 billion, up 7%. Commercial engine orders of $2.5 billion were up 81%, driven by $1.4 billion of CFM orders including $670 million of Leap orders. Military equipment orders of $300 million were down 72%, driven by no repeat of the Saudi F110 order last year which was $890 million.

Service orders of $2.6 billion were up 1%. Commercial service orders of $2 billion were up 11%. The 2Q average daily spares order rate was $24.6 million, up 19%, as we continue to see a nice rebound from the higher year-to-date GE fleet utilization that is up 2.6% globally and as airline shop visits and parts restocking return to more normal buying behaviors.

Military service orders were down 25% as we are seeing some impact from reduced flight hours and inventory management. Overall for Aviation, order pricing was up 2.5%. Revenue of $5.3 billion was up 9%, driven by equipment up 12%.

We shipped 596 commercial engines in the quarter, which was up 30 units, or 5%. We shipped 33 GEnx units, up from 27 last year, and we shipped 280 military engines, which were up 21 units or 8%.

Service revenues of $2.6 billion were up 6%, driven by commercial services up 12% partially offset by military services, which was down 6% on lower spare parts. Segment profit of $1,067 million was up 16% driven by the strong value gap, pricing up 3.6%, and also by higher volume. And margin rates grew by 1.1 points in the quarter.

On the right side is Healthcare. Orders of $4.8 billion were up 2%. Equipment orders at $2.8 billion were up 4% and that is 7 points better than we saw in the first quarter.

Developed markets were up 3% with the US up 5%. Europe was up 7%. Japan was down 26%, but it is down 8% excluding the impact of foreign exchange.

Developing markets were up 8% driven by China up 16%, Latin America up 4%, India up 1%. If you go by modality, MRI was up 14%, CT was down 6%, ultrasound was up 13%, life sciences was down 1%, and diagnostic guidance systems was down 5%.

Service orders of $2 billion were down 2%. Revenue of $4.5 billion was flat. Again, that is driven by the growth markets up 10% offset by the developed markets down 4%.

Segment profit of $726 million was up 5%, so the benefits of restructuring and higher volume more than offset the impact of lower pricing. And margin rates were up 80 basis points in the quarter.

Next is Transportation. Orders of $1.1 billion were down 23%. Equipment orders of $444 million were down 45% as we continue to see the impact of soft North American locomotive and global mining equipment markets.

Service orders of $633 million were up 7% driven by locomotive services. Orders pricing was up 40 basis points and revenues of $1.6 billion were up 2% as the growth in signaling and parts more than offset lower equipment revenues, which were down 14%.

We shipped 170 locomotives in the quarter versus 243 last year. Segment profit of $313 million was up 11%, driven by the positive value gap and services growth, which also drove margins up 160 basis points.

Energy Management had a strong quarter versus last year. Orders of $2.3 billion were up 19% driven by digital energy up 24% and power conversion up 20%. We saw strong growth in digital meters and in the marine segment in Brazil and China.

Revenues of $2 billion were up 6% driven by power conversion up 7%, partially offset by lower revenues in digital energy. Segment profit of $31 million was up from $4 million last year driven by the improved value gap and segment margins were up 140 basis points.

Home & Business Solutions had another positive quarter. Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 5%, as 8% growth in appliances was partially offset by a 4% decline in lighting sales and segment profit of $83 million was up 5%. Appliances was up 31% driven by positive pricing and lower program spending, partially offset by the results in lighting.

Margins were flat for the quarter and we continue to see strength in housing. Second-quarter housing starts were up 18% boosted by single-family up strong double digits and multi-family starts up over 20%.

With that let me turn it over to Jeff Bornstein to cover GE Capital.

JEFF BORNSTEIN, SVP & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Keith. GE Capital revenue was just under $11 billion in the quarter, down 3%, driven by lower assets partly offset by higher gains. Assets were down 7%, or $37 billion, year over year.

Net income was $1.9 billion, down 9% from prior year, primarily driven by lower assets. And higher gains were offset by losses, marks, and impairments in the quarter. Tax benefits were essentially flat year over year with the rate down, driven by lower pretax income on lower assets.

We ended the quarter with $391 billion of ending net investment. That is down $40 billion from last year and down $11 billion sequentially.

Our net interest margin was up 18 basis points versus 2012 to 5% and flat with the first quarter. Tier 1 common ratio on a Basel I basis improved to 11.2% in the quarter, driven by the reduction and investment in the balance sheet and after paying $1.9 billion of dividends in the quarter.

On the right side of the page, asset quality trends continue in the right direction with delinquency rates improving across the portfolio. The only exception being the seasonality we expect in our UK mortgage business.

In addition, non-earning assets totaled $6.6 billion. That is down $600 million from the first quarter and down $1.6 billion versus last year.

CP ended the quarter at $36 billion, well on its way to the $35 billion plan for the year. Liquidity was very strong, ending the quarter at $70 billion.

Now to walk through the segment performances. CLL, Commercial Lending and Leasing businesses, ended the second quarter with $174 billion of assets. That is down 6% from last year, driven by a reduction of non-core assets of about $7 billion and $4 billion of lower core assets, primarily driven by asset sales, including the fleet Canada disposition Keith referred to. On-book core volume was 6% higher than the second quarter of 2012 and new business returns remained attractive at above 2% returns on investment.

Earnings were stronger across all the regions and up 31% total driven by the fleet disposition, asset sales, higher tax benefits in Europe, partially offset by asset impairments. Asset quality continued improving with delinquencies down 15 basis points versus last year, and non-earning assets were down 30% versus the second quarter of 2012.

In the Consumer segment, we ended the quarter with $136 billion of assets, up 1%. Net income of $828 million was down 9%, primarily driven by the removal of reserve seasonality in our US retail business under the new modeling approach that we completed in the first quarter. We expect reserve coverage in the US retail business to be about the same in the third quarter.

The US retail business earn $563 million in the second quarter, down $78 million from last year driven by the reserving change I just mentioned and partly offset with core growth. Asset growth in this business was strong at 9% and asset quality continues to set new benchmarks with 30-day delinquency down to 3.85%. Our core Europe business earned $149 million in the quarter, which was essentially flat year over year.

The Real Estate team continues to execute very well. Assets ended the quarter at $42 billion, that is down 28% year over year. Net income of $435 million was up two times versus 2012, and that was driven by higher gains on the equity portfolio and higher tax benefits.

The business sold 180 properties with a book value of $1.9 billion for about $200 million of gains in the quarter. Asset quality continues to improve with 30-day delinquencies on the debt book at 2.1% and that is 6 basis points lower sequentially.

The verticals; GECAS earned $304 million, that is down 1%. Down 1% with assets down 3%, driven by lower gains on aircraft sales and modestly higher impairments on aircraft held-for-sale. Returns remained very attractive on new volume. EFS earnings were down, driven by the impairment of a single asset in our energy book and modestly lower gains across the portfolio.

For our total results, we did have roughly $300 million of tax provisions in the GE Capital corporate that partially offset the tax benefits in the segments to book to a total year expected rate of mid-single digits. This, along with a non-repeat of a $200 million of tax benefits from the BP business properties transaction in the second quarter of 2012, explains the higher corporate charge year over year.

So, overall, GE Capital continues to perform well. Its results were in line with our strategy to reduce the size of the business. And as you look forward to the third quarter, the loss of earnings from shrinking assets and adjusting for one-time items, the normalized run rate for GE Capital was still in the range of about $1.8 billion to $1.85 billion in earnings.

So with that I will turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Jeff, thanks. As to the framework, we have really no change to the 2013 operating framework. We are not planning for an improved environment for the balance of 2013, but execution levers are in our control -- a solid backlog, good technology, strong cost control, and disciplined capital allocation.

In addition, we have a very diverse global footprint which is well-positioned for the macro tailwinds that are out there, like in Oil & Gas. So, again, as I said, no change to our 2013 operating framework. We still plan on solid Industrial earnings growth for the year driven by expanding margins. Our second-quarter profile supports this growth.

GE Capital will have solid growth for the year and we have no change on our framework for corporate costs or cash. We still plan on double-digit EPS growth for the year. So everything is consistent with what we said at EPG and we are well-positioned to deliver for investors.

In conclusion, let me recap our status versus investor goals we set for the year. First, our Industrial earnings growth will improve during the year. Power & Water was a drag in the first half, but should have positive earnings growth in the second half. The other segments are executing, so we should see strong growth for total Industrial in the second half.

We plan to achieve 70 basis points of margin improvement for the year. The second quarter exceeded our expectations and the teams did a solid job on execution.

We expect to receive up to a $6.5 billion dividend from GE Capital this year. Organic growth will likely be at the low end of our 2% to 6% range for 2013. Again, the wind turbine cycle is a headwind, but we are well-positioned for the future with a solid backlog. The balance of our Industrial businesses should grow in line with our 5% to 10% organic growth goal.

We are on track to return $18 billion to shareowners through dividends and buyback. So for GE this is a solid quarter and we are on track for a good year. Now I will -- Trevor, back to you and we will take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff -- Keith and Jeff. Why don't we open up the line and take some questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Jeff, when you think about last quarter and the disappointing margins you put up, your confidence in the 70 basis points for the year seemed to be somewhat wavering. And maybe it seemed like a reach goal.

I mean putting up the 50 basis points this quarter, does that indicate to you an increased confidence that you are going to see this back half of the year margin ramp, particularly given what you saw in value gap?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, it really does. Again, I think the teams have been executing well. I would decompose it a little bit the way we talk about margins.

The value gap is on track to be significantly positive this year. Our SG&A -- our simplification efforts, I think, are just gaining momentum so that looks good. R&D, I think, levelizes for the year, mix levelizes for the year, and Power & Water units are in backlog.

So, Scott, I think as we execute that ramp we feel pretty confident in the 70 basis points for the year. We still have a slight hedge in the numbers and I just think we are building momentum.

SCOTT DAVIS: Makes sense. I know it is hard when you look at backlog and orders to, just given the timing, to figure out exactly when revenues are going to pull through. But when you really look at the order growth and the fact that you are getting -- you were down including wind, but excluding wind up 5% you said.

But you said in the slides not counting on environment improving, but the order book does imply that the back half of the year is going to have some unit volume tailwind. Am I reading that correctly?

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, yes. It definitely does. Just given the way the wind -- Scott, like you know, just looking at the wind profile, if you look at Power & Water it is going to strengthen in the second half. And the other businesses, I would say, are already demonstrating some nice momentum.

So things like Aviation spares, which were a drag last year, have turned into a tailwind this year. Oil & Gas I would say four or five segments double-digit orders growth, even M&CS I would say a better quarter. So if you just pick through one by one you are going to get some gathering momentum, I think, in the second half of the year.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And just clarification, the loss in Brazil, I assume that is the EBX, Eike Batista, investment.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, that is right.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. Thanks, guys. I will pass it on.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning, everyone. So I just want to -- I have a couple of clarifications. One, I just wanted to confirm, were there any gains that you would consider one-time within the Industrial segments that might have helped the 50 basis points of margin this quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: We had a small disposition in Aviation, but it was immaterial, John. In total across the Industrial segments the impact of gains was zero.

JOHN INCH: Then the rise, Keith or Jeff, in the year-over-year corporate. I mean you did call out the asset impairment of $0.01.

But was there any kind of an Industrial reclassification in the way you look at the businesses that might have -- again, sorry to be nitpicky -- but may have helped the margins and then in turn that flowed through the corporate line? Why, again, was the corporate up as much as it was?

KEITH SHERIN: There was no reclassification, but I can take you through corporate. If you look at the corporate second-quarter number, it is $1.883 billion. Remember you got to take out the non-operating pension, which on a pretax basis is $661 million, so we are at $1.2 billion in the quarter.

There is really three things. We have $280 million of pretax restructuring in corporate, which is the $0.02, and again that for the year will be against the NBCU gain. We have the impairment of $108 million in the corporate line.

Then the third thing that is not really related to corporate, but it just flows in that line, is the GE Capital preferred dividend for $135 million. So if you take the second quarter and you get to a run rate, you are basically at the run rate we need to be about $3 billion for the year.

JOHN INCH: That makes sense. Keith, can I ask you about WMC in Japan? We are still taking charges for it. Just remind us, if I am not mistaken, wasn't there a statute of limitations in New York that prospectively kind of makes the run rate on WMC, hopefully, or you tell me, sort of much lower kind of going forward?

And then maybe this is for Jeff. Is there not an opportunity to payoff these Japan liabilities sometime early next year? I am just wondering what -- I realize it is still early, but, Jeff, what your thoughts are toward perhaps pursuing that kind of attack.

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Sure. I think I can start with both of those for you, John.

On WMC, yes, the statute of limitations runs six years from the date of the securitization, and we basically have completed -- all the securitizations that came out of WMC have gone through that secure period now. And I think that is why you see a slowing of the additional pending claims.

And so we need to resolve these. We are in negotiation and discussion on the claims, and we are going to work our way through that as you go through the second half of the year. We will continue to update you.

From a Japan perspective, there is a contractual discussion point in the first quarter with Shinsei. We will have a discussion with them, and whether we can reach agreement or not remains to be seen, but there is an opening there in the first quarter that we will be pursuing and negotiating with them.

JOHN INCH: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. First, just back on kind of the question of gains, it sort of kind of netted out year over year in the quarter. But can we just put a finer point on what it actually was -- TransDigm and the other stuff you might have had?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, the Aviation TransDigm benefit was immaterial for the segment. And I didn't say it netted out year over year; I said it was zero in the quarter in the segments.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. I thought it was net -- I thought you said net neutral year over year.

KEITH SHERIN: No, no, no. In the quarter thee small benefit we got in TransDigm in Aviation, if you go to the segment profit level, it was zero across the segment profits for the Industrial businesses.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, great. Shifting to Power, so Power price looked decent in the quarter. I just wonder if you could give us a little color around service price versus order price and what is driving that.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Power & Water, if you look the equipment pricing was up 3.5% in the quarter, the service pricing was down 0.3%, and overall up 1.6%. Thermal and PGS was down 2.2%. Renewables was very strong, up 11%. Those would be the biggest drivers.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then just a little more color, if you could, on just what is going on in service. Europe obviously weak; sounds like you have got a little less bad maybe. How do you see that playing over the balance of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the one bright spot in service was certainly in the US. If you looked at the US PGS, the orders were up 29%.

In the first quarter we talked about some advanced gas path upgrades. The team did a pretty good job executing in the quarter. They had about 12 of them in the quarter and that is a good sign for us. In the US service business revenues were up 20.

In Europe, PGS had a really challenging quarter, down 59%, Jeff. The fleet operating hours; we had reduced outages UK, Italy, and Spain. So we are seeing some positive benefits of the fleet in the US and we are more than offsetting the drag that we have from the fleet in Europe right now in the PGS business.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning. Just first a quick clarification again on that corporate versus segment impact restructuring and other charges, those $0.03. Was any of that in corporate or was it all in the segments?

KEITH SHERIN: No. If you go to the corporate line, you adjust for the nonoperating pension, out of the $1.2 billion there is $280 million of restructuring on a pretax basis. That is Industrial. There is another penny that is in Capital in corporate. So out of the $0.03, $0.02 is in Industrial and $0.01 is in Capital.

STEVEN WINOKER: But that $281 million is counted is the -- is part of that $1.883 billion, right?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, it is.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. So that was in corporate, okay.

KEITH SHERIN: Right, and so was the NBCU gain in the first quarter and we said that restructuring would be in corporate through the year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Right.

JEFF IMMELT: Just to repeat that, because I want to make sure everybody gets that right, that on the NBCU gain --

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. So in the first quarter we had the NBCU gain. We made a set of decisions to lower our cost structure in the Company. From an accounting perspective you have to actually complete all the actions to book the accounting charge to reflect the downsizing that you are doing.

And so not all that could happen in the first quarter. We have additional work to do to identify and complete the project.

So we had $0.04 of restructuring in the first quarter against the NBCU gain and that left a net of positive $0.04 in that first-quarter EPS. In the second quarter we had a naked $0.02 after-tax of Industrial restructuring, and in the third quarter and the fourth quarter we will probably have another $0.01 at least each quarter.

So that for the year, Steve, basically it is a zero -- it's in the corporate line. In the first quarter it was a net positive, in the second quarter it was a net drag, and in the third and fourth quarter it will be a slight net drag. Does that help?

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Yes, it does, a lot. Thanks.

Then on the -- a little more clarification on the GE Capital side, guys, since we have a lot of GE Capital horsepower there now. The CRE (multiple speakers) the Commercial Real Estate gains, the $200 million you talked about, we continue to see an environment where you are getting these every quarter. I mean, as you run down that book, what is your visibility to that going forward? And how long and sustainable it is?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: So we did have $200 million in the quarter and the team has done a pretty good job as we have reduced that book down to about $17 billion of our investment and doing that as profitably as possible. It is going to get progressively more difficult to generate the same level of gains unless we continue to see improvement in the markets where we are selling these assets.

We have been very focused in the US; that is where the recovery has been the biggest and the fastest. We are seeing some signs of life in Europe, in northern Europe and the UK and France, but there is still a long way to go there. And Japan is a little bit better.

So I think there still will be the opportunity to generate gains. Whether we will be able to generate them as we move down the next $17 billion at the same rate, I think remains to be seen. I think that is going to be a little bit of a challenge.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then, on the provision side, they were at least a little lower than I was expecting. Can you maybe just comment on how you were thinking about the amount of provisions in the quarter?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: I think provisions came in about where we thought they would be. They were up about $300 million year over year, $200 million of that was associated with our retail business in the US. We went to that reserve model change that we completed in the first quarter.

One of the outcomes of that is we removed the seasonality we historically had had in the second quarter, and so that didn't repeat year over year. Then we added $100 million of reserves in CLL, principally in our US CLL business.

So I think provisions came in just about where we expected them. They were down sequentially because we made that final change in the retail reserves in the first quarter, which was like $600 million. So that is why they sequentially look lower.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and maybe sneak one last in for Jeff. Energy Management and intelligent platforms, does that continue to be a targeted growth area, both sort of acquisitively and organically?

JEFF IMMELT: It is organically, I would say, Steve. Look, there has been commentary about transactions. Even though we don't like to specifically talk about companies, I would say when you guys think about what we have outlined in terms of the priorities for the Company, the one transaction that has been rumored really doesn't fit our screen as to the kinds of places we are going to put capital.

Is that a good way to answer your question, Steve?

STEVEN WINOKER: Couldn't be more direct. Thanks, Jeff. I will pass it on.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITI: Good morning, everyone. Best wishes to Keith and to Jeff Bornstein in their new responsibilities.

Jeff Bornstein, since you are on the hot seat now, how about just some color -- I know it was a foregone conclusion that GE Capital would be declared a SIFI. But just are there any consequences regarding capital requirements, reporting and so forth?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Yes, I don't -- we have been in preparation for this day for the better part of two or three years. We had the Fed with us for the last two years. We have been running in parallel all of the processes that you see in the major banks, running whether that is stress testing, preparing ourselves with a recovery plan, and working early innings on a resolution plan.

So I don't think incrementally it is anything that we won't be able to deal with. I think our capital is in very, very good shape. I think our processes are improving every day, so I don't think at the margin that the designation is going to mean all that much to the business.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Then for Jeff Immelt, at EPG there was a lot of focus about prospects for a staged exit of the business and how the proceeds would be used for buybacks and changing of GE's earnings mix. Can you give us any update as to where that process stands?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I would say notionally, Deane, we are still on track for what I talked about at EPG. Again, I don't think we are quite ready to talk detailed specifics, but you will be hearing from us in due time. But the notion, the strategy that we outlined at EPG is still on track.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. First of all, Jeff and Keith, congratulations on your new roles.

Just wanted to go back to the price cost benefit this quarter, the value gap of $293 million. How does that compare to the plan? Given the pricing and orders are improving, the backlog price is improving, raw material environment remains pretty benign. How does that develop over the balance of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you have seen our pricing on orders quarter after quarter; six quarters of positive OPI across the Company. That is coming through in revenue. This quarter we had 1% positive price in sales.

I think that continues. I think we have put it in the backlog. With the OPI strong on the new orders coming in I think you are going to continue to see pricing.

I think the change that we are seeing year over year has been a big improvement in deflation. Last year at the half we had close to $60 million of inflation and this year we have got significant deflation, so I think we expect that to continue. We do a lot to lock in our purchases on a forward buy basis, so we are feeling pretty good about the value gap.

Jeff has talked about it. I think that is going to be, as we show on the margins chart, a significant contributor to us getting to the 70 basis points this year. As you listen, as we go business by business, we talked about the value gap in just about every one of the segments being a positive contributor.

So the teams have been focused on pricing, they are focused on delivering projects at the margins we quote or better, and the sourcing deflation has been positive for us this year.

JEFF IMMELT: (multiple speakers) This is going to be better than our plan and I think that is where the source of our hedge is going to come from.

NIGEL COE: Okay. So you think a point or more of margin benefit in the back half of the year from price inflation.

Then, obviously, the Power & Water margins were pretty incredible given the sharp decline in revenues. And you called out the price value gap, obviously, within mix and I am wondering to the extent to which you benefited from some of these upgrades on the gas turbines versus where you might characterize it as regular MRO work on the installed fleet?

KEITH SHERIN: It was a positive for us. If you look at the service business, it was actually up slightly on profit. So the net benefit of everything they did, whether it is the parts sales or the upgrade and the outages in the quarter, gave them a little lift. And so I think it is a positive.

We were up on our profit, even with the revenue being down a little bit. So services versus equipment was a benefit, certainly in the energy segment.

NIGEL COE: Then a quick one on the GE Capital dividend, $1.9 billion in the quarter, $6.5 billion for the full year. How do you expect that to phase for the balance of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: We have got that loaded in evenly over the third and fourth quarter, so $1.5 billion in the third and $1.5 billion in the fourth is the assumption today.

NIGEL COE: Great. Thanks a lot.

KEITH SHERIN: That is for the specials, that 30%.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Morning, guys. So I just want an update on sort of gas turbine order expectations for the year. I think you have been talking about 120, 130. We are only at 32 here in the first half.

Is that still the target? And if it is, what other things -- where do those orders come from?

JEFF IMMELT: Shannon, my hunch is that the overall market is not going to be quite as strong as we had initially expected. So my hunch is that the orders for the year will be between something like 100 and 115, in that range.

Again, still they come in buckets. I would say there is still a fair amount of activity in the Middle East. China and Asia aren't bad. We expect US to be better this year than last, but at a small level. Europe pretty sluggish; Africa okay. But they tend to come in buckets.

But my hunch is that is where the orders will come in.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: And you have pretty good visibility into those? Are there some lumpy things in 2H to get there?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, we do. I think we have a pretty formal process we go through on booking orders and stuff like that, so we kind of see what I would say is pretty good visibility there.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Then just on these -- in the US on the advanced gas path upgrades. I know you had talked about I think they got pushed out of 1Q and you were expecting them in 2Q. Was all of that kind of recognized in 2Q, or is there more of this to come in the second half? How do those work?

JEFF IMMELT: There is still more to come in the second half. Again, it is always between when we book the order and the revenue. But I think it's -- we have got something like 50, don't we, Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: We have a goal of 50 for the year. We did two in the first quarter, 12 in the second, and we have got eight in the backlog. And we have got a number that are working. So, yes, I think there is a lot in progress.

What we talked about in the second quarter, we had three of them that weren't working and slipped. And two of those actually booked in the second quarter in addition to another 10. So I think the team has made a lot of progress there. They are positioned probably for the first quarter of 2014 outages as you look at where they go, so they will be in the second half, later in the second half of the year we think, Shannon.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. All right, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I just had a question around the simplification on the cost cutting. You had $474 million of cost-cutting savings in Q2. It looks like there wasn't much back in Q1 at all.

Back in the Q1 you talked about the majority of the cost savings coming in the second half, so I'm just trying to square away -- you have $500 million savings already in the first half. You talked before about $1 billion or so. Is that $1 billion number for the year a lot higher now? Because I guess you should -- again, per the Q1, you should be getting most of the cost-saving benefit in the second half.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, we had actually $200 million in the first quarter, Julian, so that is how you get to the $468 million or whatever at the half. We are targeting at least $1 billion.

We have an intense focus in this company around simplification. There is a regular rhythm; everybody is engaged. We are reducing P&Ls, we are putting things in centers of excellence, and we are going to look at more restructuring projects as we go into the second half here. If we have good returning projects, we're going to continue to evaluate those.

JEFF IMMELT: Good momentum. I would be disappointed if it wasn't above $1 billion. We've got a good backlog of projects.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, great. Then within the services overall, the just total company, the orders were much better in Q2 than Q1. You talked about revenues being obviously at the bottom end of the 2% to 6% range.

Is that solely on equipment? How has your view on the services revenue outlook for the year changed, particularly given the big improvement in orders sequentially?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, the goal for services is still around 5% for the year, and that is the focus we have on it. So I think the mix is still mainly equipment driven on the total revenue.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it, thanks. Lastly, just any color you can provide on Europe. You had mentioned right at the beginning that it felt like a better quarter. Obviously Power is still bad, but just what you are seeing generally from your customers there.

KEITH SHERIN: We had, obviously, a big improvement in Europe in the orders. Remember, the first quarter was down 17%, the second quarter we were up 2%, and it was mix. We talked about Power being tough, but the positives -- Oil & Gas was very strong.

Oil & Gas orders were up 37% in the quarter. A lot of those were up in the Nordic. We have a great position in Oil & Gas in the North Sea.

Aviation was up 26%. It was a mix of both equipment orders as well as service orders. We have seen a rebound of services in the Europe poll. Services were up about 15% for Aviation, and Healthcare had a nice turnaround.

So the Power & Water was down but some encouraging signs in some of the other Industrial businesses here. Overall up 2% versus 17% is a significant improvement, obviously, for us.

JEFF IMMELT: Just another nuance on Keith's, I would say the most short cycle business we have in Europe is Healthcare and they have first positive orders, I would say, in a couple of years probably. Maybe three years.

So that is decent, but I would echo what Keith said earlier, on the Power gen usage side it is still pretty weak in Europe but it just seems to have net-net, in the GE world anyhow, stabilized in Q2.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Just a question on rising interest rates impact at GECC. How should we think about the second half, given the funding mechanism? And when do you think we will see impact, if any?

JEFF BORNSTEIN: Andrew, I would say -- first of all, we have issued about $28 billion of debt year-to-date in addition to the $1 billion of preferred we talked about, so $29 billion total against a total year plan of $30 billion to $35 billion. So most of our borrowing in the year is done. Fortunately, we are able to get out a little ahead of what has happened to benchmark rates in the last couple of months.

Long-term generally higher interest rates have historically been good for GE Capital, as well as most banks. Margins tend to expand; spreads tend to expand vis-a-vis benchmark rates. So I would say, generally, I think on a longer-term trend basis higher rates are better for the business.

I think from a liability perspective we are in great shape. We run a match-funded book, so a short-term change in interest rates really shouldn't impact us much because our variable assets are matched with variable debt and our fixed assets with fixed debt. So we should be in pretty good shape.

ANDREW OBIN: And just a question on Healthcare. Just surprised how strong equipment orders were in North America in the quarter. At the same point CMS released 2014 proposed Medicare hospital outpatient payment regulations and those seem pretty bleak.

How should we think about A) the positive surprise in Healthcare this quarter, how sustainable it is? And where do you think the businesses going given where the regulations are going?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Andrew, look, I think our product line is pretty good right now and our positioning is pretty good. We are not counting on the US market in Healthcare to be super robust. And, look, I think on the outpatient side there has been pressure on reimbursements for a long time, so we are pretty cognizant of where it goes there.

But I would say the US market feels like it is growing flat, flattish to maybe up a couple of points and I don't see that changing that much.

ANDREW OBIN: So this quarter for you it is market share gain, you think?

JEFF IMMELT: You never know until you see the NEMA data, but it seems like a better run rate for us this quarter and then we will see when we get the market data. It is usually a lag of a couple of weeks. But I think -- then outside the US the growth markets were up 10% and that is a decent profile for the Healthcare guys.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: The orders price in Power & Water was 1.5% yet the industry seems like it is obviously in relatively tough shape. Can you just walk through what drove that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I went through some of the pieces if you looked at it. For equipment, thermal was down 5.5%, so that is more in line with what you are seeing in the softness in the thermal market, but the renewables was up 12%. So I think those were the two biggest pieces. Distributed power was about flat.

STEVE TUSA: What is driving that renewables dynamic? And I guess just pricing generally, are you -- with obviously volumes down across your business, maybe, Jeff, you can just -- just from a macro perspective. But pricing holding in there.

Is this a -- you are kind of making a conscious choice to walk away from some business? Does it really kind of not matter what the price is? It is more about the level of activity that is out there? And that is just more of a macro question I guess.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, in the wind business we have got tremendous new product introductions and we are delivering value to our customers. I think that is the biggest piece of the thermal or the renewable price index performance for us in 2013.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, it is really kind of product by product. I would say our service pricing is still pretty good and that shows up in service margins. Your reference on the power gen market it is a tough market, so you are seeing pressure there. Aviation the pricing has been really pretty good, same way as locomotive behind product performance.

So it is kind of a mix business by business. But I think on the input cost side we are not seeing any inflation really and so we see a favorable trade, let's say, in the short term between our ability to sustain decent pricing in our market versus incoming inflation.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then just one last question on the Power & Water services stuff. Clearly good news that some of these upgrades in service work is coming through.

Is that just kind of like the delayed reaction to the significant increase in gas utilization last year? And if that is the case, I mean is this something you have a line of sight on into 2014? Or is this kind of a pent-up demand being released this year as they kind of switch back to cold perhaps and then you have got a little bit of a tougher comp next year? How do we think about that?

JEFF IMMELT: My sense, Steve, is that the power gen service piece ought to be pretty stable between 2013 and 2014. We have got a decent backlog of these advanced gas paths. We do have some turnarounds next year that are going to be helpful, so I view this as the ability to kind of have stable growth in the power gen service side.

KEITH SHERIN: It is really good economics for the customer. We are developing additional new product upgrades for them that give them better efficiency and operating performance, and we can demonstrate those economics. So it is not really related to just whether they have run a little more from a cost of gas perspective. It is really about over the long-term what is the value of that asset for them.

STEVE TUSA: How many did you do last year?

KEITH SHERIN: This is a new product introduction, so there have been upgrades through the periods but this is a specific event.

JEFF IMMELT: More significant.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. At Healthcare you called out the translation impact of the yen on the Healthcare business in Japan. More broadly, have you seen any kind of competitive implications of the move in the yen, either in Healthcare, Energy, or any of the other businesses?

JEFF IMMELT: We really haven't. A lot of the things we do in Aviation and stuff like that are dollar trades anyhow. We haven't seen the Japanese companies becoming more competitive, if that is what you mean.

One of the advantages we have is we also make things in Japan and have a supply chain in Japan, so we are pretty naturally hedged. Mainly from a cost position standpoint.

JASON FELDMAN: Got it. Also at Healthcare, Healthcare seems to be the segment where pricing has been the most stubborn. And I certainly understand, particularly in North America and Europe, it has been a challenging market, but what do you see as needing to change before that improves? Is that something that is possible any time in the near to medium term?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, this is kind of a historical thing. The Healthcare business is a little bit on the electronics cost curve. Kind of half of it is physics and half of it is electronic so, and you have a fairly rapid new product standpoint.

So Healthcare kind of grows at CM rate even when we show kind of the way we look at price shows some erosion, but that is usually offset by sourcing and by margin on new products that are replacing the old ones. So it is kind of the unique character in our portfolio.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, got it. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions at this time. Mr. Schauenberg, do you have any additional remarks?

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Yes, I will just wrap quickly. Thanks, everyone, for joining the call today. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital, as we always do, soon today.

Our third-quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be held on Friday, October 18. As always, we will be available to take your questions today. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect and have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130726e97j001rz
  


 HD
 Q1  2013  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,614 words
   PD
19 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2013 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Derek and I will be your conference coordinator for today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Derek. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Trevor and good morning, everybody. Hey, look, in the first quarter, our market conditions proved to be volatile. Most of our emerging markets, including China, remain strong. However, the US indicators were mixed. While housing improved, some of our shorter-cycle energy segments experienced push-outs from March. We plan for Europe to be similar to 2012, down again, but it was even weaker than we had expected. And finally, we had an FX headwind in our Oil & Gas business.

Based on this backdrop, our results were mixed. Our EPS was $0.39, up 15%. This was actually $0.35 because not all of the NBCU gain was offset by restructuring in the quarter. Leading indicators in our longer-cycle infrastructure businesses were encouraging with orders up 3%, which is 6% ex-Wind. Equipment orders were up 10% and we had a 1.3 times book-to-bill ratio in the quarter. So this gives us confidence in our delivery schedule for the second half and beyond.

Power & Water was a drag on our overall results. Wind and Thermal units were down in the first quarter, but that was expected. We experienced incremental pressure in European services and based on our current backlog, however, we expect shipments to significantly improve in the second half and we will show you a detailed chart with the financial profile for the remainder of the year.

Finally, GE Capital delivered a solid quarter, up 9%, while they continue to shrink their non-core assets, which were down $17 billion in the quarter versus previous years.

We remain focused on our operating priorities. We were able to accelerate restructuring actions and we have taken out $200 million of structural SG&A costs in the first quarter, well on our way to at least a $1 billion reduction in 2013.

Margins were negatively impacted by some of the revenue shortfalls in Europe in Power & Water, but we remain on track to deliver the 70 basis points margin expansion this year and we will show you more details later in the deck.

We finished the quarter with $90 billion of consolidated cash and $22 billion of cash at the parent level. We returned $3.9 billion of cash to investors in the first quarter, including $2 billion of dividends and $1.9 billion of share buyback. We announced the intent to purchase Lufkin, a $3 billion bolt-on acquisition, which broadens our Artificial Lift portfolio in Oil & Gas. For perspective, GE's Artificial Lift business grew by 12% in the quarter. We expect to close this transaction and the previously announced Avio deal in the second half of this year and both deals will be accretive to Industrial earnings in 2014.

So in summary, our Industrial segment profits were about $200 million below our expectations. And that really was a function of Europe, which worsened during the quarter and some short-cycle push-outs from March into the second quarter. Now we were able to offset that gap by doing a good job on corporate costs and slightly better GE Capital performance. So that is really a summary of the first quarter.

Overall orders were a good story, up 3% overall and 6% ex-Wind. Equipment orders grew by 10%. Oil & Gas and Aviation were particularly strong and Power & Water ex-Wind grew by 10%. We ended the quarter with $216 billion in backlog, which is a record for GE. Orders pricing was up 0.6 points in line with expectations.

Many growth markets were strong. China was up 67%, Latin America was up 44%, Middle East and Northern Africa were up 22% and Sub-Saharan Africa were up 41%.

Service orders were mixed. Our investors closely track commercial aviation spares and they grew by 10% in the quarter. That is good news. And while Power & Water service orders declined, commitments increased, which helped future periods. So the orders momentum and Equipment and backlog expansion, I think, positions us well for the second half.

Revenue overall was challenged. We knew the first quarter was going to be tough. Overall, our organic growth was down 6 points, but that really was a function of Power & Water. Organic growth was up 2 points, excluding that segment, which is going through a tough cycle.

Our revenue grew by more than 10% in five of nine growth regions, including Middle East North Africa and Turkey, Sub-Saharan Africa, Australia & New Zealand, ASEAN and China. We continue to see strength in many regions and believe that growth markets will stay on track for the year. We grew backlog in service and margins in services. Europe was a drag on service revenue overall knocking 5 points off our growth. But meanwhile, our Oil & Gas service revenue was up 10%.

Our investments in R&D continue to pay off. We were selected by Boeing as sole-source for the next generation 777. We're launching the world's most energy-efficient wind turbine. Our leadership in locomotive technology is at the forefront of potential LNG conversions. We continue to focus on new NPIs in healthcare and appliances and we have a solid pipeline of advanced gas path upgrades worth about $500 million, which should help Power Gen services in the balance of the year.

The biggest driver of Industrial segment profit is the Power & Water shipment profile that we have mentioned to you before. In the first quarter, their operating profit was down 39%, driven by significantly lower gas turbine, wind turbine and aeroderivative unit shipments. In Europe, the service business was down about 22% and was the primary cause of total service revenues being down.

Despite their lower volume, the team delivered 70 basis points of services margin improvement and overall, the team did a nice job in reducing cost, but volume decline was far greater pressuring the margin rates.

We expect the second-quarter unit shipment volume to improve slightly, but it will still be negative versus last year and services should be positive and continue to grow margin rates in the quarter and throughout the year. The second-half volume is supported by our $9.5 billion Equipment backlog and will be up significantly in both Wind and Aero from the first half. Services will also be up in the second half and we have better comps versus Europe. The higher volume leverage, coupled with Service margin growth, will drive an improved margin rate. In addition, Steve and the team are working to deliver $250 million of structural cost improvements throughout the year. So these efforts should deliver a flat margin rate for the total year.

On total margins, the Industrial margin rate was 12.9% for the quarter, down about 80 basis points, but up 40 basis points excluding the Power & Water cycle. We saw a solid improvement in four of our businesses driven by a strong value gap and cost execution. Oil & Gas was negatively impacted by foreign exchange, but some of that will come back during the year. And we are planning on four businesses being above a 70 basis points improvement overall.

If you look at the first-quarter and total year dynamics, you will see that we don't expect any significant impact from mix and the R&D drag from the first quarter is mostly timing in Aviation and Oil & Gas and will be neutral by the end of the year. The value gap was strong in the first quarter and we anticipate it continuing to strengthen throughout the year. And the biggest negative in the quarter was the volume leverage from Power & Water and as I said, it will be tailwind in the second half of the year.

As I've said before, we went into the year with a plan that would deliver more than 70 basis points of margin expansion. Given the first-quarter dynamics and the short-cycle energy-related volume pressure, we have eaten into that hedge, but we still have an internal plan for 90 basis points of improvement, more than the 70 basis points that we have told all of you about. And that improvement is going to be driven by a change in Power & Water shipment profile, Services margin growth and accelerated cost-out programs. And in many ways, our margin progression fits the pattern of previous years.

Cash in the quarter was impacted about $1.5 billion by shipment timing and a couple unusual items. We grew working capital by $800 million to support Power & Water and commercial engine shipments later in the year. In addition, we had an impact of about $800 million in incentive and tax payout timing. Not included in the number and not in the numbers, a capital dividend of about $450 million, which will be realized in second-quarter CFOA.

The Company has a very strong cash position with $90 billion in consolidated cash and $22 billion at the parent and we have no change in our overall CFOA framework for the year. We remain committed to returning $18 billion to investors in 2013 through dividends and buybacks. So now let me turn it over to Keith and give you more details about the segments.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: All right. Thanks, Jeff. I will start with the first-quarter summary. We had continuing operations revenues of $35 billion and that was flat with last year. Industrial sales of $22.3 billion are down 6% driven by Power & Water, as you can see on the right side. GE Capital revenues of $11.5 billion were up 2% and both the total and the capital revenues include the benefit of the NBCU gain.

Operating earnings of $4.1 billion were up 14%. Operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 15% and if you adjust for the net benefit of $0.04 from the gain exceeding restructuring, the operating EPS would have been $0.35 and I will cover that on the next page.

Continuing EPS includes the impact of our non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations, which I am also going to cover on the next page.

As Jeff covered, CFOA was $200 million driven by the working capital investments, incentive payments and tax timing. For taxes, the GE rate of 20% for the quarter is in line with the rate of about 20% that we expect for GE for the year, but there could be some variability from quarter-to-quarter. And on GE Capital, the tax rate was 4% and that rate is down because, in the fiscal cliff resolution, the active financing exception was retroactively extended, which gave us a benefit in the first quarter. Because of expected additional asset reduction opportunities, we currently expect to see a mid-single digit GE Capital rate rather than the 10% rate we previously forecast.

On the right side of the page, you can see the segment results. Total Industrial segment profit was down 11%. That was driven by Power & Water, as you can see. Segment profit for the other Industrial businesses was up 6% and we expect Power & Water, Oil & Gas, Energy Management to all improve as the year progresses and I will cover each of the segments in more detail.

Before I go through the business results, I am going to take you through the other items from the first quarter. Starting with Industrial, as you know, we realized a $1.1 billion pretax gain related to the NBCU transaction and that resulted in an $0.08 after-tax EPS benefit. The Industrial NBCU gain was partially offset by $0.04 of restructuring and other items in the quarter. The charges related primarily to our cost structure improvements and our ongoing simplification actions across the Company and the amounts by business are Power & Water 94, Energy Management 60, Healthcare 48, Aviation 46, Oil & Gas 42, H&BS 38 and Corporate 46.

On the bottom of the page, you will see the restructuring plan for the rest of the year. We are planning to offset the additional $0.04 related to the NBCU gain with $0.02 of restructuring in second quarter and a penny each in the third and fourth quarter based on the timing of the restructuring actions being completed and approved.

Moving to GE Capital, we had $0.05 of benefit related to the sale of the 30 Rock real estate assets and those gains were offset in two categories. First, we had $0.02 of charges related to the platform exits and restructuring actions. In the real estate business, we had an after-tax charge for $123 million that related to our planned exit of another $2.3 billion of equity assets. In addition, we had $53 million of charges related to cost reductions and non-core asset exits in the rest of GE Capital.

The second category is we had $0.03 related to consumer reserves. In the first quarter, we finalized our updates to our reserve models in the US retail business. For a more granular segmentation of loss types, you know we have been working on that all year last year. In the quarter, this included completion of the analysis on bankruptcy, which, for us, is one of the larger categories of losses and the $0.03 also includes the impact for our consumer portfolios in Europe and Asia, and also our current assessment of forecasted charge-offs across the entire portfolio. So these adjustments are aligned with regulatory guidance and industry standards and we believe we have completed the methodology adjustments in our consumer franchise.

On discontinued operations at the bottom of the page, we had $109 million after-tax impact in the quarter. On WMC, we added $107 million to reserves in the quarter as pending claims increased from $5.4 billion to $6.2 billion. We ended the quarter with $740 million in reserves covering both the pending and the future claims and on Gray Zones, claims were up in the first quarter, above our model assumptions, so we booked $50 million of additional reserves and we ended the quarter with $561 million of reserves.

In total, the operating impact from the other items netted to a $0.04 benefit for the quarter and that will be offset through the balance of the year through restructuring, as I said. So let me move on to the businesses.

I will start with Power & Water. We were planning for a tough first half based on the volume comparisons for Wind & Thermal, but the market was even tougher than we expected. Orders of $5.2 billion were down 13%, Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were down 6%. That is driven by Wind. Our renewable orders of $1.1 billion were down 27%. Our thermal orders of $759 million were up 10% and our Distributed Power orders of $563 million were up 22%. So one of the highlights here in the quarter is that, excluding Wind, our Equipment orders in Power & Water were up 16%.

Service orders of $2.5 billion were down 19%. That is driven by tough comparisons, as well as order push-outs. In the quarter, we had about $100 million of orders on several gas turbine upgrade projects, mostly in the US, that slipped out of the quarter and overall, orders pricing for the business was flat in the first quarter.

Revenues of $4.8 billion were down 26%. Jeff showed you the unit comparisons for the first quarter, which drove the decline. Equipment revenue was down 42%, Service revenues were down 9% and segment profit of $719 million was down 39% driven by the lower volume.

We reduced our SG&A by 14%, but it wasn't enough given the unit declines and margins were down 3.2 points. As we got to the end of the quarter, we had challenges in the market. As I mentioned, we had about $100 million of gas turbine upgrade packages that slipped out of the quarter. We also had two distributed energy projects for a little over $100 million that were delayed and pushed into the second half. And in addition, we had expected a stronger European Power & Water Service market and that was down 22% on lower gas turbine utilization. So all these items would have been in revenues and of course would have had a significant impact on both margin dollars and rate.

On the right side is Oil & Gas. Orders of $4.8 billion were up 11%, Equipment orders of $2.9 billion were up 24% driven by strong Turbomachinery, strong Drilling and Surface orders for upstream production. Service orders of $1.9 billion were down 5% driven by lower Drilling and Surface orders related to lower activity in North America. Our backlog grew by $2.2 billion in the first quarter to $17 billion and orders pricing across the business was up 1.5%, our eighth quarter of order price increases.

Revenue of $3.4 billion was flat. Equipment revenue at $1.7 billion was down 4% as our growth in drilling and surface was more than offset by declines in Turbomachinery. And Service revenues of $1.7 billion were up 4%. That was driven by stronger global spare parts sales, partially offset by lower measurement and control short-cycle volume. M&C was lower as we saw customers delay investment decisions in the portfolio. And that impacted our expected revenues in both Equipment and Service by about $125 million.

Segment profit of $325 million was down 4% as the benefits of Service growth were partially offset by higher program spending and the one unusual item in the quarter here was we had $34 million of negative foreign exchange related to the weakening of the British pound. This is on an economic hedge over a long-term contract in the business and we will recover -- as we deliver the project, that hedge will go back to zero as we deliver the units over the next 12 to 18 months. Excluding the FX impact, segment profit would have been up about 6%.

Next is Aviation. The Aviation team had another strong quarter. Orders of $6.6 billion were up 22%, Equipment orders of $3.8 billion were up 47%. Commercial engine orders of $3 billion were up 90%, driven by $1.4 billion of LEAP orders and $875 million of GE90 orders.

Military Equipment orders of $300 million were down 42%. Service orders of $2.8 billion were down 2%. Commercial Service orders of $2.2 billion were up 8% and our first-quarter average daily spares order rate was $25.3 million per day, up 10%. Military spares were down 44% on tough prior-year comparisons. In overall business, order pricing was up 2.1%.

Revenue of $5.1 billion was up 4% driven by Equipment, which was up 8%. We shipped 596 commercial engines in the quarter. That was up 13 units, or 2%, and we shipped 279 military engines, which were up 44 units or 19%. Service revenues of $2.5 billion were flat as our commercial spare parts shipments were flat in the quarter.

Segment profit of $936 million was up 9% as the benefits of a positive value gap and lower SG&A costs more than offset higher R&D and the impact of 28 more GEnx engine shipments. And margin rates grew 80 basis points in the quarter.

On the right side is Healthcare. Orders of $4.3 billion were down 2%, Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were down 3%. For Equipment in the developed markets, it was down 5% and it is the same story we had last year. The US was flat, Europe was down 9%, a little worse and Japan was down 26%, 16% excluding FX, so soft. Developing markets were up 4% driven by China up 16%, Latin America up 4%, India down 7% and the Middle East down 19%.

By modality, MR was flat, CT was down 5%, ultrasound was up 7%, life sciences was flat and diagnostic guidance systems, which is x-ray plus interventional [PGS], was down 10%. Service orders of $2 billion were down 1%. Revenue of $4.3 billion was flat driven by the growth markets up 10%, offset by the developed markets down 4%. And segment profit of $595 million was up 2% as the benefits of restructuring more than offset the impact of lower pricing and foreign exchange and margin rates here were up 30 basis points.

Next is Transportation. The Transportation team delivered another solid quarter. Orders of $1.2 billion were down 26%, Equipment orders of $413 million were down 59% as locomotive orders were down 70%, driven somewhat by tough comparisons and also the net impact of the slowing coal market on the rail industry. Service orders of $746 million were up 31% driven by strong signaling and orders pricing was up 10 basis points for the business.

Revenues of $1.4 billion were up 12%. Our Equipment revenue was up 3% as the impact of lower locomotive shipments, 143 this year versus 159 last year, was more than offset with higher mining volumes somewhat driven by the acquisitions.

Service revenues were up 24% driven by higher long-term contract revenues in Mining services and segment profit of $267 million was up 15% driven by the positive value gap in Services growth and margins increased 50 basis points.

For Energy Management, orders of $2.2 billion were up 6% driven by Power Conversion. It was up 8%, Digital Energy was up 11%, revenues of $1.7 billion were up 2% driven again by Power Conversion up 11%, partially offset by lower revenues and Intelligent Platforms, which was down 15%. And segment profit of $15 million was down 29%. That is only $6 million, but that was driven by $15 million of higher expenses in Asia and Brazil for expanding capabilities to deliver the global $2.5 billion backlog that has grown over 25% in the past year or so. Segment margins were down 30 basis points driven by those investments and we expect this business to grow segment profit and margins through the rest of the year.

Home & Business Solutions had another positive quarter. Revenues of $1.9 billion were flat as we saw 3% growth in Appliances partially offset by a 5% decline in Lighting sales. And segment profit of $79 million was up 39% driven by the positive pricing and a little lower program spend and margins were up 1.1 points for the quarter.

And next is GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team delivered another solid result in Q1. Revenues of $11.5 billion were up 2%. If you exclude the impact of the 30 Rock gain, revenues were down 6% in line with lower assets. As I covered on the earlier page, the impact of the 30 Rock gain was offset by the restructuring and the reserve increases and I will cover those by business. And net income of $1.9 billion was up 9% as we more than offset the impact of lower earning assets with core growth and the AFE tax benefit.

We ended the quarter with $402 billion of ending net investment, which was down $32 billion from last year and $15 billion from year-end and our net interest margin was 5% and our Basel I Tier 1 common ratio improved 65 basis points to a little over 11%.

On the right side of the page, you can see our asset quality continues to improve. Delinquencies were flat or lower across the board. Our non-earning assets were down year-over-year and from year-end and our liquidity remains very strong, $68 billion of cash and we ended the quarter with less than $40 billion of commercial paper and that is the first time in 21 years we have been under $40 billion. So a substantial change in the funding profile of this business.

By business, the Commercial Lending and Leasing business ended Q1 with assets of $176 billion, down 7% from last year, driven primarily by noncore shrinkage, including $7 billion lower Penske, lower trailer leasing, lower Seaco assets. Net income of $398 million was down 40% driven by the Americas.

In the Americas, net income of $267 million was down 51% and that is driven by lower assets, as well as a $166 million after-tax impairment charge on one investment in the quarter. CLL volume was good in the quarter, up 8%. New business returns remain strong at about a 2% ROI and asset quality remains strong with flat delinquencies and less -- lower non-earnings.

Our Consumer business ended Q1 with assets of $137 billion, that was up 1%. Net income of $523 million was down 37% driven by the finalization of the portfolio segmentation that I covered earlier. US Retail Finance earned $382 million, which was down $259 million driven by the reserve increase. Excluding the reserves, the increase in the business was about flat in the quarter. Asset quality in this business continues to be very strong. Our 30-day delinquencies of 4.2% are at the lowest level we have seen in 10 years that we have been reporting on this basis. And US Retail volume was up 6% in the quarter versus last year and core Europe earned $145 million in the quarter.

For Real Estate, the team had another great quarter. Assets of $43 billion were down 28% from last year. They were down $3.5 billion from year-end. Net income of $690 million was up more than $630 million from last year, again, driven by the gain on 30 Rock. If you exclude the gain and the charge for the equity exits that I covered earlier, Real Estate earned $261 million and that was up over $200 million from last year, driven by higher tax benefits, lower losses and marks and higher gains.

In the quarter, not including 30 Rock, we sold 52 properties for $1.3 billion and $121 million of after-tax gains. And 30-day delinquencies at 2.16% are the lowest since the fourth quarter of 2008.

For the verticals, both GECAS and Energy Financial Services had strong quarters in the first quarter. GECAS earned $348 million of net income. That was up 9%. Earnings were driven by lower impairments and higher operating income and EFS net income of $83 million was up 17% driven by higher gains.

So overall, GE Capital delivered another strong result in the quarter and as you look forward to Q2, we will continue to have the loss of earnings from shrinking assets ahead of schedule and if you adjust for the one-time items that I covered, a normalized run rate for GE Capital at first quarter was about $1.8 to $1.85 billion. In Q2, we will also have the preferred dividend payment for the first half of 2013 and that is covered in our corporate line in our operating framework that Jeff is going to cover in a minute. So with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith, thanks. Just, again, on the 2013 framework, we have no change to the overall operating framework for the year and by that, I mean, and specifically we expect our EPS to grow in line with previous commitments. The mix will change. We believe it is going to be hard for our Power & Water business earnings in '13 to equal '12, which we have talked about previously, primarily due to the incremental weakness that we are seeing in Power Gen in Europe in Services. As a result, our Industrial earnings will grow in the range of high single digits to double digits.

On the positive side, we expect capital earnings to be slightly better and our Corporate costs will be lower. Previously we were at $3.5 billion in Corporate costs and we are now targeting $3 billion. So that is an improvement of $500 million. We expect to hit our margin goals and we are on track to drive SG&A as a percentage of revenue to 15% by 2014 while organic growth could be at the lower end of the range. We have reflected the changes that we've seen in the market and we are going to be aggressive on costs as we go through the year. So on balance, the rest of the framework remains unchanged.

And finally, just in summary, some of our markets in the first quarter of '13 were more challenging than expected. Europe was tougher and some of the short-cycle markets were slower in March and we saw some push-outs. But despite that, we still plan to achieve our full-year EPS framework really based on Power & Water strengthening, a stronger backlog and deliveries, Capital strength and more cost-out and we plan to achieve our margin goals.

We ended the quarter with a very strong cash position of $90 billion consolidated and $22 billion at the parent and we plan to return $18 billion to investors in dividends and buyback while continuing to execute on bolt-on acquisitions. So in a challenging environment, we are committed to delivering for investors. So Trevor, let me turn it back to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, thanks, Jeff. Thank you, Keith. Derek, let's open up the phone lines for questions. I know we have another earnings call later today, so let's try to limit the questions to two apiece if we could today. Thank you.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. Just on the margin targets, Jeff, and I don't want to make you repeat yourself for the third time today, but just to be clear, you are expecting to make the 70 bps for the year, including Power & Water, right? Not excluding Power & Water?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, including Power & Water, Scott. I think we started the year with more than we needed at 130, 140 basis points. We spent a little bit of that in the first quarter, but we see Power & Water strengthening for the year. We think the margin rate for Power & Water will be kind of flat year-over-year and even with that, we expect margin rates to grow by 70 basis points. And we still have a hedge in that number. This is not an uncommon profile for us, Scott, in terms of the way that the year lines up and stuff like that. I don't know, Keith, do you want to just go through some of the dynamics of margins?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, sure. Let me just start with the profile and then we can go back to the pieces if you want, Jeff. Over the last seven years, on average -- over the last seven years, we always have margin growth from the first quarter to the total year. And in five of the last seven years, we had declines in the first quarter. So it is not an uncommon profile for us. We grow our margins from the first quarter anywhere between 50 and 280 basis points. On average, it is about 150 basis points. And in 2006 and 2010, we grew our margins approximately what we need for 2013. So it is not uncommon and we do have a lot of work to do. We can take you through the pieces either by the categories or by business, Scott. Whatever you would like.

JEFF IMMELT: So that's -- Scott, I think that is what everybody's -- that is what we are -- that's what we have got in all of our expectations and all of the execution models for the team.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. And as a follow-up, when you think about this backlog that you are building and book-to-bill is solid and such, but are you booking this backlog at a margin that is accretive to your existing margin structure that helps yield some confidence, one for the 70 bps, but also set us up for 2014 to see operating margins continuing to move forward?

JEFF IMMELT: So the margins in backlog are actually higher. We have had good pricing, Scott, for the past five quarters and our value gap, when you really hone in on our value gap, is wildly positive. We had a very strong value gap in the first quarter. That is only going to ring up for the year. So the value gap could be $800 million plus this year and so I think that all portends to good health in the backlog.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. I will pass it on. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan Chase.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Hey, good morning. I guess just my first question is on a little bit of, I guess, housekeeping on Oil & Gas. Definitely a weaker performance than I was expecting. I mean the margin down year-over-year, the orders there have been trending really well. You said Turbomachinery was down. Can you maybe give us a little bit more color around what drove the downside there?

KEITH SHERIN: Are you talking about top line or are you talking about orders?

STEVE TUSA: Well, I guess top line and profit, I mean, I guess, both.

KEITH SHERIN: I will start overall with orders. Turbomachinery had very strong orders. They were up 70%. It's driven by strong upstream. Again, those are a little longer-cycle in terms of when they deliver. Drilling and Surface was up 48%. We had more BOPs and risers up. Pressure Control was up and Artificial Lift was up.

Subsea, we had one big order delayed in the quarter. We had about a little under $500 million associated with a large subsea project that has been pushed. We think that has pushed into the third quarter and on revenue, Turbomachinery revenues were down in the quarter. I think some of this is timing. We had large LNG projects in the quarter relative to last year's Gorgon and LNG projects, Curtis project in Australia.

Drilling and Surface was up 6% with Artificial Lift up 15%. Subsea was down 10%. Again, we had some tough timing relative to projects last year, but the backlog itself was up a couple billion dollars and pricing is up for the eighth quarter in a row. And it is a little longer-cycle. I think the only softness in M&C services was something we are watching. It was a little less than we expected, a little over $100 million as we just saw some push-outs and people making -- pushing out their investment decisions. But the core of Oil & Gas, Subsea, Drilling and Production, Turbomachinery has a very good outlook in terms of Equipment deliveries.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Steve, these guys were, on a profit basis, probably 30 or 40 weaker than I had really wanted them to do this quarter. I still think this business is going to be high single digit revenue, strong double-digit operating profit growth for the year. I think what Keith mentioned, we saw late in the quarter kind of a flow business in the control side that is something that we are not counting on necessarily getting better for the year, but was just kind of around the edges or else I think we would have done better in the quarter.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. And then one just follow-up. Again, we are kind of sitting here in a tough macro. This happened in the fourth quarter. I guess when I look at these results and I listen to you guys explaining what is going on here, I mean it is just mind-boggling how many moving parts there are here, especially again in GE Capital. I mean at what point do we again maybe evaluate the size and complexity of the organization and make, I guess, a tougher longer-term decision on the structure of the company? It just seems like a little bit of macro weakness kind of goes a long way and there is just so many moving parts to even be able to forecast and manage it. It has to be a challenge. So I am just curious as to how you guys view that in the boardroom.

JEFF IMMELT: Let me just go back and tell you what happened vis-a-vis my expectations, and I just want to maybe talk openly and just give you a thought. I think the Industrial side was about $200 million weaker than I would have planned for, what our internal plan was. We basically saw Europe -- Europe was running negative 5, negative 8 through February. By the end of the quarter, that was negative 15. That was a pretty big move.

I think you have seen it reflected in a lot of other companies' announcements. On the short cycle stuff, we saw pushes pretty consistent with what other people had seen. Now given the volatile time, the leadership team created multiple hedges in the plan. We had a $500 million -- we were always running corporate for less than what we needed. We had other hedges in the Company.

So by the time you put it all together, we are basically consistent with commitments, which is the way you would want us to run the place. So I just think you know look, I think we are explaining $200 million out of a big company, but we have been able to offset that through other hedges and operating disciplines we have got inside the Company, which is I think what you want us to do.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. I mean I guess (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: (multiple speakers) the story.

STEVE TUSA: I appreciate it. I just -- I think this year is obviously the -- again, we are kind of sitting here and it is back-end-loaded. So the second half is a very serious commitment that I know a lot of the investors I talk to are going to be watching very closely. So I appreciate the comments and good luck.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, we are focused on it as well. It is the way all the comp plans are driven and the basic cycle of Power & Water is more or less consistent with the way we had talked about the year.

KEITH SHERIN: This is a Power & Water story. If you look, our revenues take out the NBCU gain. You look at -- Industrial sales were down $1.3 billion. Thermal & Wind are down $1.5 billion. This is what we are going to be wrestling through is that Power & Water volume profile that Jeff showed you.

STEVE TUSA: Right. Okay, thanks for the detail. I appreciate it.

JEFF IMMELT: Okay, Steve, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, thanks, good morning. So just, Jeff, you commented on the 2 to 6, more towards the lower end of that range for the full year and it seems that the weakness in Oil & Gas and the weakness in Power & Water are more of a timing issue. So we have seen some push-outs, but the profile seems to be very much in line with what you had expected. So I am just wondering what else is driving this down towards the lower end of that range for the full year. I mean, first of all, I think it is prudent to do that because you had a negative 5 in the first quarter, but I am just wondering, maybe in some of the short-cycle businesses, where are we now versus where we were in December?

JEFF IMMELT: Nigel, again, I think the way we look at just in total how we run the company is we don't necessarily assume things are going to get better, right? So we saw, I would say, not in a catastrophic, but we saw Europe marginally get worse during the quarter. We are now not counting on that getting better, right? We saw a couple of short-cycle businesses get pushed. We have gone through a pretty granular analysis here of what we think comes back and what we shouldn't count on. And I think when you do that calculus, we just think the smartest thing to do is to say to investors, look, we think this could be at the low end of the range because we are not counting on stuff getting better during the year. If it does, great, but we are not counting on it and we are going to take out cost accordingly so that we kind of hedge our bets. So that is really the answer, Nigel, is we just don't count on everything coming back that got pushed and we don't count on things that we viewed getting incrementally worse getting better.

NIGEL COE: Okay, but when we calibrate our models, should we be putting a bit more pressure on Healthcare and perhaps Home & Business Solutions or was this fairly evenly spread?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, again, guys, I guess if I were -- and Keith, jump in with your views as well, I think, look, Power & Water, we would like to surprise you guys on the upside as you go through the year, right? So think about the Power & Water just profile in the year. And then other than that, I would say Healthcare was a smidge weaker than we would have expected, but we still think Oil & Gas and Home & Business and the other businesses are going to be pretty solid. I don't know, Keith --.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think you said it exactly right. When you look at what happened in the quarter, we are trying to take that into account and decide what does it mean for the year and not counting on Europe certainly getting a lot better. That is going to take you probably to the low end of the organic range.

Power & Water we originally thought would be close to flat. I think today, we are saying Power & Water probably for the year will be down a bit and that is based on the profile that we saw in the quarter and our expectation of what that means for the year. You do see it getting better in the second half and you do see the recovery, but, in total, it is probably a little weaker than we wanted for the total year.

The other businesses, we will see. I think we have got a great backlog in Oil & Gas. We have got to execute on the long-cycle projects. What will we see in the short cycle later, we will have to see. I think Healthcare could be a little -- the US market was so little -- we are talking about plus or minus 1% here, not a lot of change versus our expectations in the Healthcare model I would say.

So I think it is prudent to plan the way we are and as Jeff said, we are going to have to continue to grind away at taking out the cost. We have got more restructuring that will happen through the year as we said. We are committed to getting the $1 billion of cost out and it could be higher based on what we have to do to rightsize this place for this market.

NIGEL COE: That makes sense. And a quick one on the internal plan, the 1.3 points of internal target for margin. Does that include the additional benefit from the restructuring from the NBCU gain because the 1.3 points is higher than I expected and some of the --?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, it does.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, it does, Nigel. That is really one of the drivers of the difference.

NIGEL COE: Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. Yes, so if I think about the EBIT bridge, you called out kind of four main items behind that this quarter. Last quarter, there was a fifth, which was also Service. If I think about Service and R&D, I mean R&D you had said back in January that should be sort of flattish as a margin driver. Do you still believe that? I mean you highlight the fact that R&D was up 7% in Q1. Is there something extra on R&D pressure maybe around the LEAP-X or something that we need to think about?

And secondly on Services, you had a plus plus there for Services in the Q4 earnings slides. Services now you have had four consecutive quarters of flat to down orders. The commentary around European Services is obviously very bad and I just wondered if your margin guidance embeds a recovery or how much of a recovery in Services over the balance of this year?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the Services -- let me go to that point first. The Services, we do expect a Services improvement as we go through the year. We have some specific items that we are working on. For example, in Power & Water, as Jeff talked about, we have got these advanced gas path upgrades. We have got over 50 of them that we are working on for the year. We sold two in the quarter. We have got a number of those in the backlog and a number that still have to be closed.

So I think there are some specific items that we do expect. We have some comparisons in Europe that could be a little bit better and the service margin rate was up 30 basis points in the first quarter. So I think, for us, when you look at the four factors on the margin page, mix, which does include Equipment versus Services, it was a positive 10 basis points in the quarter. We are estimating it will be flat for the year. We are counting on less Wind, we are counting on more GEnx engines, as you saw, but that was kind of in the run rate in the first quarter and we are counting on some Services growth as we expect Equipment to grow as we go into the second half. So we do have some Services growth in the plan.

JEFF IMMELT: R&D, Julian, will be flat. I don't expect that to be a headwind. I think we had Aviation and Oil & Gas in Q1 that were at a higher run rate, but in total that is going to be flat for the year.

KEITH SHERIN: It'll be flat as a percent of sales.

JEFF IMMELT: As a percent of sales, yes. (multiple speakers). What Keith said on margin rates, again, I think we have got a good window on margin accretion in the Service business.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Thanks. And then just secondly on the top line, just on the -- if you think about sequestration, I guess and how are you thinking about that playing into your guidance for the revenue outlook in Military aftermarket in Aviation and also for US Healthcare? Did you see much of an effect or it was kind of just noise that caused some push-outs and did that cause you -- was that a factor behind the low end of the revenue growth guidance comment?

KEITH SHERIN: Let me start with Aviation. We have about 90% of our Equipment on firm order for the year. And so, as you saw in the quarter, the Equipment was actually up in the quarter, Equipment deliveries. We believe that that is going to remain very strong. We are in certain programs that are priorities for the Defense Department and things that are on firm commitment aren't being cut right now.

We did see a decline in Service orders. Some of that was versus comparisons we had last year and we will have to see how that plays out for the year. It was down about 14% in the quarter on revenue. I think that is about what the team expects for run rates on Services, but, in the back half of the year, we will have to see how the sequestration in total plays out.

I think there are a couple of offsets that you have got to think about. One is our international military engine business is very strong. We had orders for about a little under 200 F110s for the Saudi Air Force. That extends the production line of the F110s product through 2016. We had India order for the light combat aircraft on the 414 and Switzerland on the 414 and we have got some significant orders in line for helicopter engines for both the Army and the Navy.

So I think we are concerned about it on the short-cycle side. In Services, I think it could put some pressure in the back half of the year. In terms of Healthcare, the US market was just slow. I don't find it to be -- is there one driver? I think it is just the fact that there is a lot of uncertainty around healthcare. Providers are consolidating, they are worried about costs and making profit and then they are just being cautious on purchasing.

So there, we have got to drive our technology and we have to continue to drive the productivity and that is what that healthcare team is going to do. I think their year is going to depend on continuing to do well in the emerging markets, as well as taking the costs out. They had a good cost-out performance in the quarter and they have got to continue to do that through the rest of the year.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH: Thank you, good morning. I guess first question is maybe on capital allocation, dovetails a little bit with what Steve asked. There was an 8-K that came out about a week after the proxy outlining that comp is going to be tied to 2015 Industrial profits as a percent of earnings. I'm not sure why that wasn't in the proxy, but the real question is can you share that target with us? It seems very apropos to kind of the evaluation construct in the stock.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, Jeff, again, I think the way to think about that is it is going to be consistent with what we talk about externally, vis-a-vis kind of vision for the Company over the next three years. So in many ways, you have got a perspective for that, I would say, already.

KEITH SHERIN: And it is a balanced set of measurements. We have got a cumulative EPS, we have got a cumulative cash. We have got a percent of earnings that are coming out of the Industrial business, which we expect to increase through the growth playbook period here, through that three-year period, as well as a return on total capital, which will also incorporate what are the returns from both our Industrial side and our Financial Services side, Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Jeff, if you go back to the December outlook meeting, you will see the guidepost. And I think what we tried to do is triangulate between total EPS, wanting to keep that on a certain trajectory, managing the mix of Industrial, Financial, generating cash and making sure that a return on total capital. So I would say the four metrics we have are pretty interwoven, vis-a-vis how we think about value creation and how our investors want us to run the place.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, great.

JEFF IMMELT: But I would go to the outlook meeting, Jeff and just -- I think that will give you the guidepost.

JEFF SPRAGUE: That is what I wanted to clarify. Thank you. And then just thinking about Industrial, so just kind of trying to put these pieces together, it looks like you are going to pick up $0.04 in Corporate on the lower guide. It looks like capital tax rate is $0.04. It is unclear if the Industrial tax rate is a little bit lower, but it feels like you are taking a dime out of Industrial. Is that the right way to think about it and could you share why Corporate actually is going to be lower than you thought?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Jeff, what we are basically saying is, when you think about the segments, I wouldn't change any of those other than necessarily Power & Water. And I think we basically guided Power & Water flat and we are saying that could be down slightly. So I don't think -- I don't think we would agree with your math.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, that's very high. The capital tax rate is in the context of the total capital earnings for the year. There is going to be a set of asset optimization transactions that we are looking at. Some of them will cause potentially us to have higher tax benefits and it may also go with lower earnings. So I don't think we are trying to do a direct offset for capital. And for Corporate, basically what we have been able to do -- first of all, we had some better performance in the first quarter from NBC. That won't continue obviously, but that is included in the negative 172 that we have sitting here.

And then on a run rate basis, we think we are going to be somewhere around $750, $775 million of base Corporate expenses. We are getting some benefits from our simplification efforts. We have lower spending across the Corporate functions. They are going to be down 10% for the year and that benefit will help us on our overall cost goals of getting $1 billion plus out for the year, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, great. That is great detail. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. Hey, can you give us the gas turbine and wind turbine unit orders for the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Gas turbines, we had eight units in the quarter. We had four steam turbines versus one. On the wind turbines -- hang on one second; I know I have it. It was down, but it was still -- on renewables, we had 584 wind turbines versus 696 last year. So it is down about 30%.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And so I mean just thinking about this, right, you shipped like 12 in gas turbines; you got orders for eight. What is going on by geography in that number? Those are -- I don't know when the last time those were that low, but that is a pretty low number. What are you seeing geographically? And do you have any visibility into things getting better?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think they are very spread obviously in the quarter. We got a couple in Latin America, a couple in the Middle East, one in Russia, one in ASEAN, one in the US. So they are spread out. I think as you look forward, we are expecting to be somewhere between around 120, 130 gas turbines for the year in orders. So you are going to see that pick up through the year. We do see some heavy activity in the Middle East. We have got some in EMEA and we have got some in Latin America and we have got some in Africa. So it is pretty spread. I think there is some core activity in the Middle East, which would be the foundation of that activity for the year.

JEFF IMMELT: The Macquarie report, we were up 3 points of share in gas turbine in 2012. So our position is still strong and I think what Keith said, it is still our expectation to have 120-ish of orders in the year.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And then just a follow-up on kind of the mix question. So in terms of getting to the 65% Industrial earnings with the mix adjustments to this year that you made today, obviously, '13 is not going to be a year that really gets you far in that direction of the target. I mean with Power & Water kind of tracking below what you thought, I mean does this reassess your route to the target in terms of organic methods versus portfolio moves?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, not -- I go back -- Shannon, look, I would say the quarter was -- the macro was a little bit tougher than we had expected coming into it, but we still expect to have a really good year industrially inside the Company. And so I still think there is a good chance that our percentage of earnings in Industrial grows this year, even with the adjustments that we made today.

And look, we have always been very open on portfolio moves, vis-a-vis what we are trying to do at GE Capital around really focusing on the green assets and being very open, kind of in an investor-friendly way to look at the portfolio. So we will continue to work that, but we will do it in a smart way. We will do it in an investor-friendly way.

Again, I think if you go back to the question Jeff asked earlier, total EPS is a metric, how we allocate capital is a metric, Industrial percentage of earnings is a metric, total CFOA is a metric. So we are going to try drive value around all four of those metrics as we look at going forward. But we expect to have a good year industrially this year.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, and you look at capital, we ended the quarter with $402 billion of ENI. It is down $32 billion from last year. There is not a lot of just huge transactions in there. I mean we are continuing to run off -- we have got over $60 billion of non-core assets. We continue to run those off. The Real Estate gain enabled us to add to the current Real Estate plan, another $2 billion of equity assets that we expect to exit this year and so you are going to continue to see asset declines based on the red asset runoffs.

If we can get a little better GDP and a little higher growth in the CLL business, that would be great, but, right now, you would say that that market continues to be relatively flat for asset growth and we need a little better economy to kind of see that pick up. So right now, I would expect that you're going to continue to see any declines in GE Capital.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just wanted to pick up on the Capital issue. What, Jeff and Keith, do you think is the dilution associated with Capital downsizing say in 2013 year-over-year? And obviously that includes some of the actions that you described based on the gains that you were opportunistically able to leverage this quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, just on actual volume down, if you took $35 billion at a 1.5% return, that would be a total year estimate of sort of the lost margin, lost earnings that they have. Now they offset some of that with cost. Our new business volume has been at better returns, but that will size it for you roughly, if that is what you're asking, John.

JOHN INCH: Yes, no, it is. So from an ENI context, Keith, I mean ENI is going to drop sub 400 I am assuming relatively quickly. Where do you think it ends, like what is the trajectory ultimately? Is it you just subtract the $60 billion and you have some optionality around some of the other possible investments like in offshore banks or some of the other stuff or is there some other offset to that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the team is not trying to just have $60 billion of non-core assets go out and not grow the core business. I mean we are actually trying to remix, as you know. So so far though, if you look at the last couple years, our runoff of non-core has exceeded our remixing. So it depends upon what that remixing looks like. Right now, we continue to be active in the market. Our organic volume is mid-low single digits and we have a lot of refinancing that has occurred.

We would like to acquire some portfolios. If we could find the price to match our objectives on returns, we would do that. So we have capacity obviously. We have been shrinking and building up the equity. But so far, if you just look at what has happened so far, the runoff of non-core has exceeded the remix into the green assets and we will see what happens.

As we have said in the framework discussions, big material portfolio moves are not part of the base plan, but we are going to look at those opportunistically. We do have some value-maximizing franchises in the business, obviously and if we had the opportunity to move some of those based on the market or buyers or a better appetite, we would definitely evaluate those. But right now, the base plan is to continue to remix. If you look at the last couple years, the runoff has exceeded the core growth. We will see how that plays out and we do have opportunity on value-maximizing.

JOHN INCH: Yes, no, that's helpful. Thanks. As a follow-up, could you guys spend just a second on China? It actually seemed to be one of the brighter spots in your quarter. And just in terms of -- China is obviously -- kind of was in the recession last year. What are you seeing today in your businesses there and the trajectory? And maybe you could put it in the context of price and orders and just how you are feeling about that market and its future contribution?

JEFF IMMELT: So what I would say, John, is, look, we had revenue up double digits last year. We had revenue up double digits in the quarter and we had orders that were up 60% plus.

KEITH SHERIN: Almost 70%.

JEFF IMMELT: Almost 70%. So I always try to answer this is that we are a composite of the businesses we are in and not necessarily a reflection of everything. So if you think about our three biggest businesses, which are Aviation, Healthcare and Power & Water, all three of them are in a pretty good cycle right now. Healthcare continues to grow strong double digits --.

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare was up 14%.

JEFF IMMELT: Aviation, very --.

KEITH SHERIN: Aviation was up -- favorable. It had $900 million of orders. Oil & Gas was a good quarter, up 76%. Energy and Power was down about 30%, but overall --.

JEFF IMMELT: But I mean power has got the gas tailwind over time with more gas turbine demand, vis-a-vis coal and other fuels. But I think over the long term it is going to portend well. So we think China will continue to be a good story.

KEITH SHERIN: So great orders quarter in China.

JOHN INCH: Yes, I guess the question is, I mean Europe, not just for GE, but others, downside surprise this quarter. It sounds like China was a little bit of an upside surprise. Is this -- do you think this trend is sustainable or is there some sort of a -- some kind of a first-of-year blip or aberration because of the timing of who knows what, just something perhaps that --?

JEFF IMMELT: John, I think our growth region story is still pretty strong. Orders up 17% overall. I don't think we see this as a -- we see this as more of a tailwind than a headwind for the year.

KEITH SHERIN: I think you have got to levelize the 70% order rate. I mean we are planning on double-digit order rates in China and the start to the year gives us confidence that we will have that for the year.

JOHN INCH: Got it. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, good morning, everybody. Hey, I was hoping to get some color on the updated restructuring plans for the balance of the year. Your initial plan was the bulk was coming in in the second and third quarter. I see some has slipped into the fourth quarter, but just comment on the timing, what are the areas you are able to talk about on the balance of these restructurings, the payback and just we do recognize that these will be excluded from operating results because you have had part of that gain slip through or fall through on the first quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: That is right. We have tried to give you the profile. In the second, third and fourth quarter, it is really a function of getting all of the work complete to be able to meet the criteria required to do the accounting. We have to have the plan finalized, we have to take all the actions, including getting whatever approvals might be required of Works Councils or negotiating with unions that we have contractually in place and some of those things are just going to fold off -- fold into the second, third, fourth quarter. And some of that money that is in the second, third and fourth quarter is related to projects we have already approved. It is just the timing of getting those expenses accrued on the restructuring will fall into those later quarters.

So the majority of it is going to be headcount and plant closing and site closings. We continue to downsize our footprint and as part of simplification, people are reducing the number of profit and loss centers. Across the Company, we are reducing the number of business sites. We are consolidating into common leased facilities. We are closing some of our older capacity plants. You have seen some of that in the US and consolidating into different facilities that are more productive.

So we have just got a tremendous amount of activity. It is spread across the world. It is probably about half in the US and the rest spread between Europe and Asia, a little bit in Latin America. And substantially reductions in compensation and benefits and then facilities.

DEANE DRAY: Great. I know we are past the (multiple speakers).

KEITH SHERIN: The payback is about 18 months; you asked about the payback.

DEANE DRAY: Yes, okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Just to switch gears to capital for a second, any reason that you would have to believe that the context is different in terms of thinking about the dividend announcement that was made roughly in May last year as you look out now? Any reason to believe that things have shifted in a way such that we should be thinking about that differently in 2013 versus what happened in 2012?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I don't believe so. As you know, we are not one of the CCAR entities. We do go through our own process that mirrors a lot of that activity one-on-one with our regulator. We don't comment on any of those discussions. We have done obviously stress tests and capital plans and we will work constructively with them on that. And our current expectation is that the time would be similar to last year and if that changes, we will let you know, but that is our current expectation, Steve.

JEFF IMMELT: The ENI is lower and the ratios are better, right? So GE Capital is in very strong position right now.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, great. And just a minor question, but Safran had talked about $200 million of additional spend on the leadbacks and Silvercrests, so it is obviously across two engines there, but that -- I am just trying to equate sort of your responsibility on the LEAP-X side. Have we seen whatever tickup there might be already because they said that was additional spending they were going to be doing going forward. Have we seen that with you guys already?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you saw the R&D in Aviation is up. We do expect and have that in the run rate. The trade-off that we have is the GEnx spending on the PIP programs comes down, but Aviation's spending a lot of money. In total for R&D, we expect that to be flat as a percent of revenue for the business. Aviation will probably be a little higher than the other businesses and it is in line with all the new programs that they have, as you said, the LEAP, the Passport, the finish of the PIP programs on the GEnX.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, great. That's clear. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Just a question on restructuring. So I think you mentioned that there is an 18-month payback on restructuring.

KEITH SHERIN: That's right.

ANDREW OBIN: So can you just talk about what was the margin cushion before NBCU divesture (inaudible) when you upped the restructuring targets?

KEITH SHERIN: It was more than 70 basis points. The restructuring obviously has added to it. I don't have that broken out specifically. It did give us a --.

JEFF IMMELT: A couple hundred million bucks, maybe something like that.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure.

ANDREW OBIN: Okay. But from that perspective that should flow into 2014 as well, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, yes. Look, like I said, we are going to -- by '14, SG&A as a percentage of revenue is going to be 15%. We are on that path and we are going to stay on that path. (multiple speakers). Go ahead.

ANDREW OBIN: And just a little bit more granularity as to which businesses you are going to sort of do a restructuring in throughout the year. How that will flow business by business through the year if you can do that?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have it split by business. I think it would be pretty similar to the profile that I gave you. I gave you the dollars by business for the first quarter's restructuring. I don't see any reason why we wouldn't have a little higher proportion in the Power & Water, Energy Management and Healthcare.

ANDREW OBIN: Terrific. Thank you very much.

KEITH SHERIN: Those would be the three priorities.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. We have hit all the questions. So just to close out today, the replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital soon.

I have a couple announcements regarding some upcoming investor events and dates. Next Wednesday, April 24, is our 2013 annual shareholders meeting in New Orleans. We hope to see you there. On May 22, Jeff will present at the 2013 Electrical Products Group, EPG conference. On June 19, David Joyce and Norman Liu will host an analyst meeting in conjunction with the Paris Air Show. And then, finally, our second-quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be on Friday, July 19. So thank you, everyone. As always, we will be available today to take your questions.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes today's conference. We thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130426e94j001md
  


 HD
 Q4  2012  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,651 words
   PD
18 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is Deanna and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP OF CORPORATE AND INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Deanna. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's fourth-quarter and total year 2012 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are available on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin, and we are excited to get started. So we will turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Trevor, thanks. Good morning, everybody. Look, the GE made a very strong quarter. We saw real strength in the emerging markets and the developed regions stabilized. Orders grew by 7% excluding foreign exchange Wind and organic growth was 4% in the quarter and 8% for the year.

Earnings were strong with operating EPS up 13%. Industrial earnings were up 12% with all segments growing for the second straight quarter. Capital had another good quarter and for the year, industrial earnings were up 10% and capital up 12%.

We delivered on our margin commitments, which grew by 120 basis points in the quarter and 30 basis points for the year. Industrial CFOA was also very strong in the quarter. And for the year, CFOA grew by 48% to $17.8 billion.

We returned substantial cash to investors in 2012 through dividends and buyback and in the fourth quarter we announced a 12% increase in our dividend and an expansion of our buyback program. Finally in December, we announced a strategic acquisition in our aviation business called Avio.

So this was a very successful quarter for GE that strengthened as the quarter continued and builds momentum for the future.

Orders grew by 2% in the quarter. This is up 7% excluding again the impact of foreign exchange and Wind. We had a solid order growth in five of six businesses. Order pricing grew by 0.5% in the quarter. Equipment book to bill ratio was 1.2 and we ended the year with a record high backlog of $210 billion.

Many of our businesses had great quarters. For instance, healthcare equipment orders grew by 7%. MR was up 12%, CT up 23%, and ultrasound up 11%. And importantly, growth market orders expanded by 12%.

Our growth initiatives continued to deliver. Growth regions expanded by 9% in the quarter and 11% for the year. Six of nine regions grew by double digits including Russia, Australia, Latin America, China, Africa, and ASEAN. For the year, China grew by 19%. Service has had another good quarter in revenue backlog and margins. PowerGen services had a very strong quarter. Service backlog grew to a record of $157 billion.

We continued to launch new products and service offerings. We're winning with our aviation product lineup, which is giving us high share of commercial engines. Oil and gas had record orders and backlog. Our subsea orders almost doubled versus last year and Distributed Power grew by 19% for the year.

In November, we announced nine new service offerings for the industrial Internet with 20 more in the pipeline, so we continue to deliver in volatile markets.

GE had a great margin performance in the quarter, margins grew by 120 basis in the quarter and 30 basis points for the year. Every business grew margins in the quarter and our performance really was driven by value gap expansion of $330 million, service margins which grew by 190 basis points, and simplification. For the year, SG&A as a percentage of revenue was down 100 basis points and we achieved these results in spite of the fact that foreign exchange created a headwind for the year.

We enter 2013 with substantial momentum. We expect to hit 70 basis points of improvement in 2013. This is based on very positive value gap structural cost and service margins, which are really the run rate, and mix in 2013 should not be a drag. So really a good job by the GE team.

GE had a very strong performance on cash as well for the year. We hit $17.8 billion, up 48%. Industrial CFOA in the quarter was $6.2 billion, up 12%. We had good performance on working capital even while we continued to invest in growth. We end the year with a cash balance of $15.5 billion and consolidated cash of $77 billion.

Our strong industrial CFOA performance plus capital dividends is supporting our plan for balanced capital allocation, so we returned $12.4 billion to investors through dividend buyback and we expect this to continue in the future.

We announced the acquisition of Avio in December for $4.3 billion. As you know, we had a significant backlog of engines and shop visits. We have invested in capability, materials, and capacity to improve our new engine margins. Recently you have seen several partnership announcements from GE Aviation in our supply chain.

In Avio, we are acquiring an existing position in engine development. They bring complementary technologies to GE. We think there is an opportunity to expand this technology beyond aviation and there are substantial synergies, about $200 million or more and relatively low execution risk. So at 8.3 times EBITDA, we believe this will generate a good return for our investors and we expect to close in the second half of 2013 after regulatory approvals.

So now I'm going to turn it back over to Keith to talk about Company operations.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Jeff. I'm going to start with a fourth-quarter summary. Go to the income statement, we had in operations revenues of $39.3 billion. That's reported up 4%; ex FX, revenues were up 5%. Industrial sales of $27.3 billion are up 2%, up 3% ex FX again. Capital revenues of $11.8 billion were up 2% and operating earnings of $4.7 billion were up 13%. Operating earnings per share of $0.44 were up 13% and if you look, continuing EPS here includes the impact of the nonoperating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations, which I'm going to cover on the next page.

As Jeff said, year-to-date cash at $17.8 billion was up 48% including the dividends from GE Capital, a great year on cash. For taxes, the GE rate, 21% for the quarter, that's up about 6 points from last year mostly due to higher pretax income. In the fourth quarter, GE rates consistent with our rate through the third quarter and the low 20s rate we forecast all through the year. So right now we would forecast a similar GE tax rate for 2013.

The 6% GE Capital rate is consistent with the mid single-digit rate we forecast in the third quarter. As we mentioned in December, our plan for next year for GE Capital includes less tax benefits so right now I would forecast a rate of approximately 10% for 2013 for GECC.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Total Industrial segment profits up 12%. It's great to have all seven of the Industrial segments delivering positive earnings growth and these results also contributed to Industrial segment profit of $15.5 billion, up 10% for the total year.

GE Capital also had a strong quarter. Earnings were up 9%. If you include the impact of the preferred dividends, GE Capital represents 36% of total Company earnings in the fourth quarter. Overall, a strong segment growth quarter and I'm going to cover each of the segments in more detail in a minute.

Before I get to the businesses though, I will start with other items in the quarter, fourth quarter. First on the one-time benefits, we had $0.01 of after-tax gains from two non-core dispositions that occurred in the fourth quarter in the segments. We sold the Thomas Medical business in Healthccare. That business sells disposable medical devices for cardiology and we realized a $24 million after tax gain.

And in Aviation, we sold the Smiths business in California, in Duarte, which makes thrust reverser actuation equipment and we realized a $67 million after tax gain. So in total, $0.01 on the benefits.

We also had $0.02 of after-tax restructuring and other charges in the quarter. These charges related principally to continued cost structure improvements at GE Capital, at Healthcare, Power & Water, and Energy Management as well as some business development costs.

On the bottom of the page, we had $305 million of charges in discontinued operations. We booked $286 million of additional reserves on gray zone this quarter. While we watched the claims decline 28% in the third quarter, the claims in the fourth quarter were above our model expectations. So we revised our assumptions this quarter. Right now we are reflecting a further slowing in the overall claims reduction rate than we had previously modeled and that brought our year-end reserve to $700 million.

So we will continue to update you as events and facts change on the gray zone. Right now I will switch to the business results.

First I'll start with Power & Water. As you know, this is the first quarter we are reporting the three separate businesses, so Power & Water. The business continued to be impacted by Wind; however, the overall execution delivered positive operating results. Orders of $7.2 billion were down 16%, down 6% ex Wind. Equipment orders of $3.5 billion were down 26% driven by Thermal and Renewables.

The Thermal orders of $974 million were down 49% as we had orders for 26 gas turbines versus 50 last year and we also had orders for two steam turbines versus 20 last year. In addition, there were $500 million of Thermal order slips that went out of the fourth quarter into 2013. For the total year, we had orders for 108 gas turbines versus 134 in 2011 and the total year Thermal orders in dollars were down about 7%. Total Thermal order pricing was up 1% in the fourth quarter and up 0.5% for the total year.

Our Renewables, fourth quarter Renewable orders of $987 million were down 50%. We had orders for 412 wind turbines versus 1023 last year. Renewable order pricing was positive 0.4% and service orders of $3.6 billion were down 3%.

PowerGen Services was up 7% and you will see that is important in terms of profit but that was offset by nuclear, which was down 15%, in line with lower activity in Japan.

For revenues of $7.7 billion, they were a 2%. That is driven by services. Equipment revenues of $3.9 billion were down 2% driven by Thermal down 14% partially offset by Wind up 10%.

We shipped 32 gas turbines versus 33 last year and we shipped 722 wind turbines versus 688 last year. Service revenues of $3.7 billion were up 5% driven by PowerGen services, which was up 8% and PowerGen services op profit was up double-digit in the quarter.

Total segment profit of $1.7 billion was up 5% as the benefits of the higher services and lower product costs more than offset lower prices and in the quarter, margins expanded by 80 basis points.

On the right side, Oil & Gas had another strong quarter, closed out a great year. Orders of $5.6 billion were up 18%. Equipment orders of $3.1 billion were up 31% driven by the strong subsea systems and drilling and surface orders. Year-to-date equipment orders were up 21%. Service orders of $2.4 billion were up 4% on again strong subsea systems orders.

Total orders pricing was up 1.3%. We finished the year with a backlog of over $14.8 billion, up $2.6 billion from last year and our seventh consecutive quarter of positive orders pricing.

Revenue of $4.5 billion was up 11% driven by equipment. Equipment revenues of $2.4 billion were up 27% driven by subsea systems, up 34%, measurement and controls were up 63%, turbo machinery was up 16%, and service revenue of $2.1 billion was down 2%.

Segment profit of $649 million was up 14%, which was driven by the strong volume and positive pricing and our acquisitions continue to perform. For the year, they were up significantly and above pro forma, so overall another strong growth quarter for Oil & Gas.

Next is Aviation. The Aviation team had another solid quarter in fourth quarter. Orders of $7.4 billion were up 8%. The commercial engine orders of $3.6 billion were up 9% driven by CFM LEAP and GEnx. Military engine orders of $632 million were up 57% driven by US orders for F1-14 and T700 as well as foreign military orders for F1-10 engines.

We ended the quarter with a backlog of $22.9 billion, up 6% versus the third quarter. Service orders in the quarter of $2.7 billion were up 1%. Commercial services were flat. The fourth-quarter spares order rate was $22.3 million, which was flat with last year. As you know, we did see spares orders stabilize in the fourth quarter and as you know, spares were down double-digit all year long, so flat was an improvement and the total year rate was $22 million, down 11% from 2011. Total orders pricing was up 2.3% for the business.

Revenue in the quarter $5.5 billion was up 11%. That is driven by equipment, which was up 19%, services were up 3%. We shipped 589 commercial engines in the fourth quarter, which was up 71 engines from last year, and we shipped 41 GEnx units in the fourth quarter.

Commercial service revenues of $1.8 billion were flat in the quarter and segment profit of $1,039 million was up 22%. It's up 8% ex the deal that I covered on the other items page. So ex the deal, segment profit growth was driven by positive price, lower base cost, partially offset by negative engine mix.

On the right side, Healthcare, we had good orders quarter. Fourth quarter for Healthcare orders of $5.4 billion were up 4%. Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were up 7%. Developed markets were flat but there was a big shift here. The US was up 8%. Europe was down 8%. Emerging markets were up 24%, continued strength in the business. The Middle East was up over 100%. Russia was up 29%, China up 22%, Latin America up 21%, partially offset by India down 12%.

By modality, CT was up 23%, MR was up 12%, ultrasound was up 11%, molecular imaging was down 8%, life sciences was up 5%, and MDx was down 3%.

Service orders in the quarter of $2.1 billion were down 1% and total orders price was down 1.8% for the business. Revenue of $5.2 billion was flat, driven by the growth markets up 13% offset by the developed markets down 3%. And segment profit of $1,021 million was up 7% as the benefits of cost productivity and other income more than offset the negative price and foreign exchange.

Organic segment profit growth for the business -- if you look in the fourth quarter, it was up 1% and for the year it was up 3%.

Next is Transportation. Transportation team delivered another solid quarter despite a slowing top line. Orders of $1.3 billion were up 7%. Equipment orders of $600 million were up 20% driven by the strong international locomotive orders. We had orders for 100 locomotives versus 74 last year. We had strong mining orders and mining -- and mining is down a little bit actually, $151 million was down 7% and service orders of $720 million were down 3% as fewer signaling orders offset strong locomotive service orders, which were up 14%.

Revenues were down 7% on as expected lower locomotive shipments. We had 117 locomotives this year versus 258 last year, just the way we planned the year. And this was partially offset by the stronger service, which was up 26%, and mining revenues which were up 57%. Op profit was up 12% on higher service and positive value gap.

This is the first quarter we are presenting Energy Management separately. The businesses here are Converteam, which is now Power Conversion, Digital Energy, Industrial Solutions, and Intelligent Platforms. Orders of $2.2 billion were up 12%, driven by the strong growth in power conversion, oil and gas marine orders. Revenues of $1.9 billion were down 1% as lower intelligent platform sales offset the growth in power conversion, which was up 6%. Segment profit of $64 million was up 36% with 90 basis points of margin expansion driven by a positive value gap more than offsetting lower volume.

On the bottom, Home & Business Solutions had a very positive quarter with intelligent platforms now reported in Energy Management. This segment is just appliances and lighting going forward. Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 2%, driven by appliances. We did see some strength in the contract channel from new housing starts and segment profit of $115 million was more than double last year's fourth quarter, driven by higher pricing and lower product costs.

I'm going to wrap up with GE Capital, Mike Neal and the Capital team delivered another solid quarter, revenues of $11.8 billion were up 2%. Higher core income, strong retail revenues, real estate sales more than offset the impact of lower assets. We ended the year with $419 billion of ending net investment. That's down $26 billion from 2011 driven by the shrinkage of non-core platforms and over $20 billion lower than our $440 billion goal that we set back in 2009.

GE Capital earned $1.8 billion in net income, which was up 9%. That's driven by great results in real estate, growth in consumer, and that more than offset the $200 million lower income from lower assets.

On the right side, asset quality metrics showed continued improvement across the board driven largely by improved portfolio performance. Our net interest margin was 4.9%, up 49 basis points and we had strong volume of $54 billion in the quarter, up 11% from last year. Commercial volume was up 18%. Consumer volume was up 8% and new business volume averaged 3% returns.

One other point that is not on the page in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning you're going to see reserves at GE Capital decline by $400 million versus the prior quarter. This decline is driven by a modification to our write off policy in line with regulatory guidance where we now write off loans against specific reserves that we are carrying for more than 12 months. So the change had primarily impacted real estate and CLL and has no impact on our income statement and the net impact on the balance sheet is zero but we had higher write-offs and lower reserves at the end of the quarter because of that, about $400 million.

So if I go highlights by business here, first I will start with CLL. Net income of $544 million was down 30% driven by lower assets and prior year dispositions and also the non-repeat of last year's IRS settlement. In the Americas, net income of $455 million was down 20%. That's driven by the non-repeat of the tax item in the fourth quarter as well as lower assets.

We did see strong volume growth in the Americas. In the fourth quarter, volume was up 31% at 2.4% returns and in Europe, European CLL earned $83 million and was flat with last year.

Our Consumer business had another positive earnings quarter. We ended the year with assets of $139 billion flat with last year. Net income of $755 million was up 22%. That's driven by growth across the board in US retail in Europe and in Asia. US retail finance earned $477 million, which was up 3%. That's driven by higher assets and better margins partially offset by higher credit costs as we continued our reserve segmentation that we talked about in the fourth quarter. U.S. retail finance volume was up 9% over last year and core Europe earned $154 million in the quarter.

For real estate, commercial real estate had another quarter with significant improvements over last year, assets of $46 billion were down $15 billion. That's down 24% from last year. It's down $9 billion or 16% from the end of Q3. So we do a good job of reducing our exposure to real estate. The business earned $309 million in net income which was $460 million better than last year. That's driven by lower losses and impairments, higher tax benefits, higher gains.

During the quarter, we sold 282 properties for $2.6 billion realizing $136 million in after-tax gains and we also closed on the sale of the business properties book to EverBank resulting in $82 million of gains and $5.4 billion less real estate. Our unrealized loss on the equity portfolio was down to $1.1 billion at the end of the year and the outlook is that real estate is going to continue to deliver improved performance in 2013.

Next is GECAS. They had a solid fourth quarter, net income of $343 million was up 9%. That's driven by higher gains and lower losses on impairments. Asset quality remains strong. We ended the year with two aircraft on the ground. And finally, Energy Financial Services also had a solid quarter with earnings of $107 million, down 3%. So overall a great year, $6.4 billion of dividends paid back to the parent.

And with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. Just to wrap up on 2012 investor commitments, one last time on 2012, we really hit all the major goals that we set out with you a year ago. We targeted strong industrial growth and we hit 12% in the fourth quarter and 10% for the year. We said we would grow margins and we hit 120 basis points in the fourth quarter, 30 basis points for 2012 and we are on track for 70 basis points in 2013.

We said we wanted to get cash out of GE Capital and we received a $6.4 billion dividend to the parent. We said we would make GE Capital smaller and our ENI ended the year at $419 billion, down 6% even while we grew income by 12%. And we said capital allocation would be disciplined and balanced and we returned more than $12 billion in dividends and buyback and announced the $4.3 billion Avio acquisition.

So 2012 was the year where we really hit all of our financial commitments to investors.

Looking forward in 2013, there is no change to our 2013 operating framework that we talked about in December. If anything, we start the year with a higher backlog and more cash. Our commitments are similar to 2012. We plan to achieve double-digit industrial earnings growth. We plan to receive a substantial dividend from GE Capital. We plan to grow margins while driving solid organic growth and our fourth quarter order will support this growth, and we plan to return substantial cash to investors through dividend and buyback.

So our fourth-quarter performance gives us confidence for 2013. I think the GE team has done a great job of execution and Trevor, now back to you for some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith. Deanna, let's open up the phone lines for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. It looks like most of the full-year margin expansion came from value gap. Can you talk more specifically about 4Q, the 120 basis points is a pretty big number, if there's a way to think of that in terms of value gap versus maybe mix or cost.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, I will give you both actually because I think it's helpful to look at the pieces. You said it, in the fourth quarter, value gap was big. It was 80 basis points of the growth came from value gap. We had very strong pricing. We saw a material deflation and you can see that the changes in order pricing are flowing through into revenue.

We had -- equipment service mix was a drag. As you know that has been a drag all year long. It was 50 basis points, the same as what we had for the total year as we had higher revenues on equipment growth and on services. And also you know the Wind story. Higher Wind revenues to lower margins has been a drag all year long.

We offset that with two things. One, we did have the dispositions. That was about 60 basis points in the quarter and we had strong productivity, which was 30 basis points in the quarter as we offset the impact of the negative mix. So overall, 120 basis points.

And for the year, it's really a similar story. Value gap was 20 basis points so that 30 basis points growth. We had a real drag on mix and other. That was in total 60 basis points but we offset that with strong productivity. A lot of that is simplification. Our SG&A as a percent of revenue went down a full point. We have done a good job with costs and we've got great programs in place that will help us as we go forward into 2013, as you know.

And the gains in total for the total year were about 7 basis points on the impact for the margins. So a pretty good performance and the strength really value gap and productivity driving margin improvement both in the quarter and for the total year.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Helpful, Keith. Thanks. Kind of stepping back to it a little bit of a bigger picture question, the Avio deal seemed pretty interesting for many reasons. But when you think about taking a step backwards and -- is this part of a bigger trend and an opportunity to start to buy in some of the supply partners that you have that -- I mean, there is multiple positives that can come out of that I guess and risk reduction and controlling intellectual property and things like that. Is there other things out there that you can do that are similar to this type of transaction?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, we did a couple other joint ventures that you probably saw last year that enhanced our position and controls and fuel nozzles and additive manufacturing and things like that. We think Avio made a ton of sense just given the amount of GE content and things like that. I would say we don't have a bunch more on the drawing board but what I would say is we've got an incredible backlog and skyline of aircraft engines coming at us for the next five to 10 years and we believe that actually being able to drive real productivity in the supply chain and innovation in the supply chain is -- will likely be one of the real margin enhancers as we look at the Aviation business in the next three, four, five, 10 years.

So it is part of a bigger productivity play. I don't think there's necessarily things like Avio on the drawing board per se but we continue to look at productive manufacturing of a well identified backlog as being a major source of margin benefit for our investors going forward.

SCOTT DAVIS: Helpful. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, guys. I will pass it on.

OPERATOR: Stephen Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning. The China growth of close to 20% remains pretty strong. Can you maybe talk about what was above and below that average and how you see that playing out in 2013? You guys have skated through the weakness there pretty nicely.

JEFF IMMELT: So, Steve, I would say we definitely saw China strengthen again at the end of the year. The big drivers of China continue to be Healthcare and Aviation. We believe that the China momentum will likely continue into 2013. So I don't know, Keith, do you want to --?

KEITH SHERIN: Some V's -- I will give you for the quarter Power & Water had a big quarter. They were up over 30%. Healthcare had a big quarter, up 15%; for the year, they were up over 20%. Aviation continues to be very important to us for the year, up 18%, and there were some orders that we had pushed out of the third quarter still pushed out of the fourth quarter. So we expect some more orders in Aviation in China in the first quarter. So those three are really the strength and we continue to see investments by the government in those industries and we are benefiting from the move to gas in China a bit, the great emphasis on Healthcare and certainly on Transportation with the Aviation position we have.

JEFF IMMELT: (multiple speakers) as well China grows, you see more activity in Africa and Brazil and places like that as well. So it's -- it has an knock on effect that is also positive.

STEVE TUSA: How big is your China business going to be at year end now?

KEITH SHERIN: The revenue for the year was just a little under $6 billion in 2012.

STEVE TUSA: Got you, okay. Great. Then one last question just on margins, I guess the value gap obviously is ramping here. That doesn't seem like that's lumpy, so you had your biggest quarter obviously in the fourth quarter, which means you should probably start the year with a pretty decent value gap in the first half. And then maybe if you'd talk about how those other swing factors like mix, the other things you talked about in the bridge progress as you moved through first half '13 if there's anything lumpy that you need to call out that may impact the 70 basis points first half to second half type of thing?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Steve, again as I look at margins I think value gap is pretty well dialed in. Structural costs, what Keith talked about SG&A as a percentage of revenue, that should continue to get better. Those two aren't necessarily lumpy. Service margins aren't really lumpy. We continue to get good progress there. My view is Wind will be lumpy as you think about how it plays through the balance of 2013. And the one that we don't really control so much is how mix goes through.

So I would say a lot of the levers should continue with pretty good progress and the one that we will manage this year as the year goes on was just the impact of -- there will be a $0.03 headwind in Wind. We don't see that necessarily changing and that's something to can play through. But we feel confident in the 70 basis points for the year.

KEITH SHERIN: We are not really giving quarterly margin guidance, but as Jeff said, for the year based on those factors, we feel pretty confident we have an internal plan that is above the 70. We don't have any gains that are in the plan to get to that 70 and we have got some good momentum as we come out of the fourth quarter on the margin improvement.

STEVE TUSA: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just looking for a little more color around orders. Just first at a high-level, you are calling the quarter flat at 11.8 but I see 12.5 last year in the quarter. What's going on there?

KEITH SHERIN: I think it's the energy recast and eliminations.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Yes, and I'm talking about service in particular, actually.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, that is what we have. We have recast from some of the services went into equipment I believe. (multiple speakers) and some came up to Corporate. We'll get you the split. It's a little bit of a decoder ring. I don't have the details with me, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, then just on the power-related stuff, so Power & Water in aggregate, price was down 20 bps but I think you said, Keith, just trying to keep up with your Thermal was up 1. Is that Thermal number just equipment or is that service and can you provide any color on service pricing in the business?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, the number I gave was the total business, Thermal and PGS up 1 in the quarter. If you look at -- I don't have a separate breakout for services for the fourth quarter. I have Thermal in total. But if you look, all year long in Thermal it was positive in the first and second quarter; it was a little negative in third quarter, it was positive -- for total year it was up 0.5 point for Thermal, Equipment & Service.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then just finally flipping over to Aero, so the ADOR stabilized. Do you have visibility you think that the aftermarket has kind of found the bottom and inflecting or is it early to kind of determine that?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the way the team has talked to us about it and in the market you continue to see pretty good revenue pass through miles. Freight declines were lumpy in 2012 but recovered a little bit at the end of the year. And for us to have flat ADORs, given that there was an awful lot of working capital management in the supply chain and some mix for us with the old CF-6s on freight was a positive sign. Right now the team is forecasting a little bit of improvement off of that fourth-quarter rate in the first quarter and we are going to have to see as we go through the quarter.

It's too early in the quarter right now to know a couple weeks in but they are forecasting it will be improving over the fourth-quarter levels.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Any concern about your GEnx productivity ramp with maybe things backing up at Boeing if you've got any thought on how things might play there as it relates to you?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you know, we are going to have to see. Right now we haven't had any schedule changes from them. Actually as you know if you there a few less engine shipments, that is not a bad thing in terms of margins based on the margins on the initial GEnx shipments, so we had a great year on GEnx, Jeff. We came down the learning curve. Obviously some of the pricing that you're seeing in Aviation is coming through on GEnx.

There was an improvement on margins per units in those shipments. So I -- we don't anticipate it to be a big deal but again, we've got to see Boeing kind of work their way through the problem.

Just a little number on our engines, you know on the 1B, we've had 35,000 flight hours with 99.97 dispatch reliability and on the 2B, on the 747, and we had 310,000 flight hours with 99.94% dispatch reliability. The engine is performing very well in the fleet and the customers love it.

So we have got to work through Boeing and we are trying to help them with whatever they're working through, and we will. But so far for us, we are very pleased and our customers are very pleased with the GEnx.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. A question, a broader question. Given the resolution, partial resolution of the fiscal cliff, are you seeing any improvement in sentiment from your customers in the U.S.?

JEFF IMMELT: I think there's certain tangible things like the production tax credit, Andrew, so that basically opens up a two-year window. So I would say on balance that's more positive, and we hear more positive comments coming out of the renewable energy sector.

Other than that, Andrew, I would not say that we are necessarily picking up, whether or not that has been liberating or not. The shorter cycle business in GE is our appliance business. We get appliance market data every week, and the industry itself was about flat in December and the industry itself was about flat through the first couple of weeks of January, so if that's helpful.

ANDREW OBIN: Just a question on GE Capital. Do you think these ROIs are sustainable? Are you seeing more competition reentering the space, and any more color by segment on ROIs on new business? Thank you.

KEITH SHERIN: It does vary, I think on some things. Like asset-backed lending, we've seen some more competition. But in other places we have had less competitors. Overall for CLL, to do $14.5 billion in the Americas at a 2.4% in the quarter, that's pretty good volume at a pretty good rate. So the team is being very disciplined on pricing and margin hurdles. And so far we have been able to get the volume we wanted at the return hurdles that we have set, and we expect to see that continue in 2013.

I think we saw little bit of a bubble in the fourth quarter for some of the fiscal cliff activity as people did a lot of refinancing and tried to get gains done, sales of their properties out in the quarter. But other than that, we've been pretty disciplined on pricing and we expect it to continue to be reasonably good.

Jeff, any comments on it?

JEFF IMMELT: All I would add is exactly what Keith said, that some of this is our own discipline about where we are going to write business, and we have been exceptionally disciplined. And I think the fact that volume was pretty good in the quarter kind of lets us get the sense that we are in the market and that our disciplines are appropriate.

ANDREW OBIN: On asset quality, we've seen changes to consumer. We've seen changes to CLL. Any more policy changes down the line?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, those are the two that we're working through. I think we are significantly through the consumer, as far as the segmentation. There may be a little more in the first quarter. And on the writeoffs, this was just -- there is regulatory guidance and we are complying with it. I'm not aware of any others besides those two right now.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Sticking with GE Capital, a question on provisions. It looked like you absorbed at least $0.01 more than what we were looking for.

But now that I look at the consumer delinquencies, they are at an 18-year low so it raises the question, I know this is completely formulaic and it's out of your discretion, but when might we start seeing some releases of reserves?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I don't anticipate that. I can tell you right now what we are basically -- I think a simple rule of thumb to look at on the consumer is you are probably going to be looking at 12 months of reserves -- of provisions for losses in that book. While we've seen delinquencies come down and you're right, we have a tremendous asset quality there, it's the best we've seen as you said. We have increased the segmentation of the portfolio to be more granular on different loss types and that's added to provisions.

You can see in the fourth quarter provisions are up. Some of that is volume and about $50 million, $60 million after tax of that is additional segmentation on the reserves to get to the 12-month kind of proxy here for loss levels.

DEANE DRAY: Great, then can you comment on the MetLife Bank integration, any changes to the business model there? And a related question is as you start increasing this alternative financing, alternative funding, you are expected to issue less commercial paper and maybe the aggregate amount of commercial paper coming down might actually give you better spreads, better financing, and maybe if you could comment on that as well.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we are thrilled with getting that leg closed. Obviously we put it in the consumer bank. The objective here is to grow our deposits online and they give us a franchise and a capability to be able to do that. Our expectation is that we are not only going to do that in the consumer bank but we're going to migrate that over to the commercial bank and we are going to do more online deposits.

As you said, our objective is to get the CP down in the 30s this year and continue to reduce CP and we've been very successful at doing that and we will continue I think.

You look at the trade-off of costs of deposits versus CP plus the bank lines and whatever backup cash you carry, I think this can be a good trade off over time for us as we continue to diversify our funding.

DEANE DRAY: But is it too early to quantify what that -- the spreads might be?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think you are not going to see that from -- CP is at 20 basis points, Deane, so you're not going to see a big number on that in 2013 for GE Capital. I think you will get a benefit from having less negative carry on the cash.

If you look at last year, we took the cash from $70 billion plus. We will have a carry around somewhere between $50 billion and $60 billion this year. That will probably be the biggest increase in sort of the financing margins.

Last year we had net maturities of $48 billion reduction GE Capital, so it was a fantastic year for Capital on a balance sheet basis to kind of lower the amount of debt and improve their future debt maturity profile. As you know, we go down to $30 million to $35 million of long-term debt issuance a year now from a significantly higher level.

So I think the capital team has done a great job. But the biggest benefit you will see will probably be on a little less negative carry on the cash.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thanks, good morning. First, a follow-up question to an earlier one. The question was around the order report today versus a year ago in the Q4 2011 press release. You talked about moving from services to equipment. If you look at the total and I'm just trying to understand -- the total I guess a year ago was $28.6 billion in the press release and this year it's $28.5 billion and you talk about just 2% increase. So when you look at the overall level, how much is it? Or how should I understand that? What's the gap?

KEITH SHERIN: On the recast, the orders are basically flat. They're up $56 million ex Wind and FX -- 5%, sorry. They are up 5% ex Wind and FX. So the recast we put a little bit more in corporate out of the energy infrastructure recast, but I think it's insignificant.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, all right, fine. Secondly on Avio, just so I understand this, they produced the gear system obviously for the GTF on the A320neo and the C-Series. I think they are pretty deeply involved in the development program and you are also calling out $200 million of synergies. Just how are you thinking about -- how does that handle -- how do you handle that going forward?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, there are a ton of different developmental programs inside the industry that people work on together. We do engines for Sikorsky. We buy from Goodrich and Hamilton Sundstrand so there's always I'd say a certain amount of developmental work that goes on inside the industry.

I think what was most appealing about Avio for us was really the amount of content they had of GE engines. I think getting more control over our own supply chain, building capability, more reliability, leveraging sourcing and manufacturing skills, things like that, that's really where we see Avio paying off for investors.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, maybe just lastly, I guess Aviation is now up to about half of the backlog and as Boeing and Airbus orders start to decelerate at this point, is the thought that the backlog that Oil & Gas -- and -- do you see that backlog maintaining or now starting to come down as you start running it off a little bit and getting it into revenues?

KEITH SHERIN: Obviously you're right. You're going to see -- and we've talked about it the last six months but with the Aviation backlogs of three to four to five years of equipment, you are going to see lumpiness in those orders. We feel great about the position and obviously as the Airbus and Boeing air framers increase their production run rates, we're going to continue to see volume growth as you see in 2011 to 2012 and 2012 to 2013, we expect more commercial volume growth.

But I would expect the orders to be lumpy. The one offset to that is you are starting to see the LEAP Max orders come in and so that will be an offset. As you know, there's been pretty good success in the marketplace from the 737 Max.

JEFF IMMELT: I think it's a great question. I don't think either Keith or I ever thought we would have $210 billion of backlog in GE. But I would say in the kind of volatile environment we live in today, having that kind of visibility is actually quite a strong aspect and maybe Aviation tails off a little bit but in Oil & Gas, our orders in Oil & Gas are $0.5 billion or $1 billion at a crack, so it's easy to see how that order rate might continue at the rate it's on today and add to the backlog.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then, Jeff, you mentioned that you still expected $0.03 impact on Wind, the tax credit extension obviously got moved through 2013, so that's not changing your thinking about the end of the year?

JEFF IMMELT: Really not yet. It's just -- it really opens a two-year window, so I think in aggregate over the next two years, it's going to increase the number of Wind shipments we're going to have but exactly which quarters and stuff like that is hard to predict.

KEITH SHERIN: As you know, the PTC extension is a little different this time, Steve. The units will have to be in production by the end of the year and that has yet to be defined but it's not the same as last year where they had to be actually operating. So I think it's all good for 2013 and 2014.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. So just in terms of -- back to the orders, FX and ex Wind being up 7, at the December meeting, I think you had said up a smidge and this sounds better than a smidge. What finished stronger I guess in December than you thought at the meeting?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Shannon, look I think the- there is a little bit of volatility going on out there and we always try to give you guys a range of outcomes. One of our biggest industrial businesses went from having orders down 24% in October, to having orders up 27% in December. And the total being up 7% for the quarter, so that's a big swing. So I would say, Shannon, on balance we closed the quarter very strong. I would say all the businesses had good order books as we closed the quarter, probably above even what our expectations were. I think that's good news. What that means or is it lumpy or things like that, I think it's too soon to call victory, but clearly the momentum built during the quarter.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, and Healthcare was probably the biggest swing?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Power & Water margins, you are saying ex Wind, they were up 300 bps? The Wind mix should be actually favorable from here. But that seems like an awfully high year-over-year run rate. So are there things that prevent us from continuing to track at that kind of a rate?

JEFF IMMELT: Well the services business had a great quarter so we really -- a lot of what we've talked about in terms of services kind of I'd say fourth quarter was fantastic and there's the mix for the business ought to be great or better for 2013. So we'll just see how the shipments work and all that stuff.

KEITH SHERIN: But you look at 2012, Wind revenue was up close to 50% and the margins are down a couple points and they're already below average for the Company. So this had a huge 20 basis point impact on the total year and the total Company and I think as you go into 2013, you're going to have a couple billion dollar less of Wind revenue so we do expect it to be a positive.

I don't know if we get the full 20 basis points and we'll have to see how the PTC impacts that but it will be a net positive versus what we certainly saw in 2012, Shannon.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, then just your M&A plans have been fairly, fairly modest but if you get NBC proceeds sort of sooner than the base plan, are there enough things out there that you see opportunities to redeploy very quickly into industrial deals or would you look for something else to do with the cash?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Shannon, I just don't even want to speculate on and how that plays out. We've talked about balance and discipline, capital allocation. I think that's really the way I feel. We like having a good yield. We like the fact that we returned more than $12 billion of cash to shareholders last year. We like having kind of a focused approach to acquisitions and if our world changes, we will come back and talk more about it but for right now you shouldn't assume any change.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, all right, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. So my first question is really just on the value gap. You mentioned it's not really lumpy but if I look at your mid-December presentation, you had a double plus from value gap as a margin driver in 2013. Today it's a single plus. I just wondered if that was because of something like Healthcare pricing in the quarter being worse than you thought in orders or what drove that?

JEFF IMMELT: I think it is still -- there's really no change in how I feel about value gap for next year. It's good, solid 330 this year. It will be better than that next year.

KEITH SHERIN: I think if you look at orders pricing overall, you look at our total orders pricing index for the Company, it's been positive all year long in 2012 in total, it was a positive 0.5 points, 50 basis points in the fourth quarter and for the total year, its positive 60 basis points. So I don't think -- I think pricing has not been a change in our view. We continue to see strong --

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, we think it's going to be above 12.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, got it. Secondly in mid-December, you talked about 5% services revenue growth in 2013. If I just look at the orders in services, they were down 2 year on year in Q2, down 4 year on year in Q3, flat in Q4. So are you still comfortable with that 5% services revenue growth for 13 just given that the orders have not been that strong for nine months or so?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Julian, these are lumpy. The orders here are probably lumpier than others particularly with the CSAs. So I would say we have a huge backlog and then our estimate of 5% organic revenue growth in services really assumes that aviation spares has a better 2013.

So I think the combination of the fact that you've got $157 billion backlog sometimes what goes into orders are 10 or 15 years of commitments, right? So those go based on shop visits and stuff like that that we can model that makes us feel good about it and some pieces really we are expecting aviation spares to bounce back. Those two things I think really lead you to parts and service organic growth.

KEITH SHERIN: If you look, we had 4% revenue this year with aviation flat and Jeff's point is really one of the key differences what we expect in 2013 in aviation.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it, thanks. Then just lastly on gas turbine shipments for 2013, I'm thinking they should be down maybe around 10% or so year on year. Does that sound about right?

KEITH SHERIN: Basically right now if you look, we had 108 orders for the year. We're forecasting somewhere around 100 gas turbines for 2013 and we will see how the market plays out, so they're going to be down versus 2012. I think the factors to think about the Thermal business itself on the equipment side is about 9% of the op profit for the Energy business.

So really the dynamic for us is going to be how did services perform? We got a big growth forecast in for services. How does distributed energy perform? We've got a nice orders performance in the quarter and we've got a good outlook for 2013.

And how they do on controlling their costs? Those are going to be really the dynamics that the energy team is going to be working their way through.

JEFF IMMELT: And the megawatts will be bigger. The unit mix is higher on that.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. So with backlog building nicely and orders better than expected as of December, I guess sort of the lowering of the organic growth in December and that played out as you predicted, was maybe a bit of an abrupt deferral of the backlog conversion. Can you characterize how you see that unfolding from here? Does that tend to favor the first half and where does that focus your bias in the 2% to 6% organic range?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I don't want to change necessarily the 2% to 6%, Chris. What I would say is that the way we finished the year, the building of the backlog, I would say the strength of orders makes us feel good about next year. It makes us feel good about the momentum we have going into next year.

And then the only thing I would add to that, these are the organic growth and how it splits, again we don't do single point estimates. It's just Wind is lumpy and Wind is going to continue to be lumpy in the future. But if you take that out, you know, the rest of the Company I would say you feel pretty good about where we are positioned going into next year. And that you had pretty good data -- really you had five of six businesses with what I would call robust in the quarter from an industrial standpoint.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay and then just one on GE Capital regarding the systematically important financial institution and the buffer needed for capital. Can you give any updates on the limitations on capital payout and with respect to if you are shrinking the balance sheet, is there any reason GE Capital would need to retain any earnings at some point in the future?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's a good question. I think for us what we have to make sure is we that are meeting what we need to have to be from a regulatory perspective and from a rating agency perspective and from a management perspective safe and secure. We expect to be well-capitalized in any scenario under Basel I or Basel III. We're going to meet the liquidity requirements that regulators have and our objective is to be able to release capital as we continue to shrink the book as you say and continue to generate profitability. And for us we think we are in pretty good shape on that.

You saw our success in 2012. We've got number one, strong earnings. Number two, we have strong liquidity with over $60 billion in cash, less than $35 billion in long-term debt we are going to issue this year and we already completed $9 billion of that. We have strong capital ratio. As you saw, we ended the year with a Tier 1 common of 10.2 on Basel I.

We reduced our overall debt by over $45 billion last year. We've got strong portfolio quality. Delinquencies are down. Non-earnings are down and we continue to make strategic progress on running off the red assets and reinvesting in the green assets.

So I think when we look at what is going on from a regulatory perspective, we have not been designated as a systemically important institution yet. We are in discussions and the main issue that happens when you are designated is that you are going to be supervised by the Federal Reserve and we are already supervised by the Federal Reserve. So we'll see how that plays out but we believe that we have a pretty good framework against the regulatory guideposts and we are continuing to operate in a way that runs the Company from a safe and secure perspective while also being able to be mindful of returning cash back to the parent and get that back to investors.

So I think we're doing a pretty good job of this. I think Mike Neal and his team had a great year against those objectives and we will have to see how that continues to play out.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Thanks, Keith.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Lots of moving parts between the segments and the results versus the outlook in orders and pricing. Can you just -- is there any way to do a little bit of a quick recap in terms of pricing particularly in Thermal but maybe parse that between gas turbine, or just some of the other segments, Keith or Jeff, that are noteworthy? What is different about fourth-quarter pricing in backlog specifically on orders versus what you saw last quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, if you look in the third quarter, our power and water pricing in total was down 1.9 and in the fourth quarter, it's down 0.2. I said Thermal including services went from a negative 2.7 in third quarter to a positive 1 in fourth quarter. Wind was down 3.6 in the third quarter. It's up 0.4 in the fourth quarter on fewer orders, obviously. So those are some of the bigger pieces.

Oil & Gas third quarter 1.6, positive pricing, fourth quarter 1.3 on high orders. Aviation continued positive pricing 2.3% positive in both third and fourth quarter and Healthcare continues to have the negative pricing, 1.7 in the third, 1.8 in the fourth quarter. So overall we went from 0.1 of a point positive price in the third quarter to 0.5%, 50 basis points positive in the fourth quarter.

And it's a big area, a focus area, obviously as the whole team is working on improving margins and I think they've got some pretty good traction here. I think the supply demand characteristics are what they are by business but overall for the portfolio to have 0.5 point of positive price is a good place for us to be as we leave fourth quarter.

JOHN INCH: I agree. Is the Thermal price that you are getting is that mix or are you actively trying to raise pricing? What's going on there?

KEITH SHERIN: I think Thermal pricing is lumpy. I would take it for the whole year. 0.5% up with equipment and services, that's kind of the way we look. We are expecting to be flat to slightly positive for the year. Steve Bolze said it was going to be a little lumpy and I think that's about where we are. Obviously with the market where it is, the supply demand characteristics are tougher in Thermal.

And on the other hand, you look at Oil & Gas and the supply chain tightening, where they are better in there and they are better in Aviation. So I think it varies by business, but overall we hit what Steve said a little better for the total year on Thermal and 0.5 point up.

JOHN INCH: Jeff, with the eventual monetization of NBC and Capital as equity investments and redline assets that are going to come off, your Company between that and operating cash is going to throw off an awful lot of cash flow over the coming years. Would you be able to reaffirm you commitment sort of not to be doing big deals or anything beyond one to three? Avio was a little bit bigger but it's still in the zone or are you thinking about perhaps in a year or so perhaps stepping that up or how should we think about that at this juncture?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Steve, again, -- or John, I'm sorry -- I would make two comments. I just think I don't really want to make any other pronouncements other then kind of disciplined and balanced capital allocation. So I just really -- we will go over the other bridges as we get there but let's start with that.

The second thing I would reaffirm your first point I think is one that's good for all investors to remember is this Company is going to have a ton of cash over the next three years, right? Between whatever happens with NBC Universal, between kind of as we look at where we think GE Capital is versus the guideposts Keith talked about, you know, there is going to be a lot of cash. So let's leave it at that. Let's leave it with those two comments for right now, John.

JOHN INCH: That's okay and I'm often confused with Steve, so no worries. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning. So speaking of the ton of cash you just mentioned, Jeff, when do you expect to have signed off for the capital allocation time for GE Capital? Are you on the same schedule as the banks, which I think their stress test results are out around March.

KEITH SHERIN: Nigel, we are not one of the major banks that goes through that systemic process every year. We do go through our own process. I would say it's the best outlook would be to think of it as a mirror of 2012 and we will go through a lot of the exact same steps with forecasts and stress tests and capital plans and all that but last year we had final decisions on that in the second quarter and I would anticipate it would be the same in 2013 right now.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's helpful. And then switching back to December, it seems that December came in stronger than maybe your initial thoughts back in the annual meeting. Anything stand out in terms of regions U.S. versus growth markets versus Europe? Any one region stand out in terms of that ramp up in December?

JEFF IMMELT: We saw a little bit of strength in the US I'd say in healthcare and appliances and then we saw a ton of strength elsewhere I would say, Nigel, and we saw that in Oil & Gas and Aviation, Energy, really across the board. So again, I think it fits the broader -- it fits the broader I would say dialogue and that we kind of think the growth markets will continue to grow in 2013 and when I think about the US, you've got a slow and steady housing recovery that I think is very positive and then there is still a lot of fiscal uncertainty and how those blend through into a U.S. GDP in 2013, we will see.

NIGEL COE: Okay, okay. Then finally on getting the MetLife deal done, how do those deposits, how does that deposit base impact your flexibility and optionality with regard to PLCC?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we will see. I think a diversified funding base is good in that regard. Right now we will -- we already in that business as you know, a lot of it is already financed by deposits, alternative funding and securitization, so now we've got kind of a different kind of a deposits, more Internet bank deposits. And at the end of the day having more diversified funding I think does give more flexibility for future activity. We don't have any of that going on right now but I think just from having a more diversified funding base, you would have more optionality.

NIGEL COE: Okay, very helpful. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg, Langenberg & Co.

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, LANGENBERG AND COMPANY: Good morning. Just a couple things. I will do a bunch of follow-ups later. Just review for us briefly your total exposure to 787. Obviously this is transitional or transitory.

And then secondly in terms of the power cycle, I think we are pretty much looking for a 2014 overall upturn. But how are you thinking about potentially what the impact is in that cycle from what I would call demand management, either companies making your buildings 20% more efficient or using grid to make -- if you are a utility -- using your grid to make your existing generation capacity let's call it an ops and management for utilities, if you will? If you could address those two things.

KEITH SHERIN: I'll take a shot at the Aviation first and then you can talk about Energy. If you think about 787 exposure, we obviously have inventory. Our plan for 2013, we shipped 113 GEnx engines in 2012. Our plan would be to ship 200 engines so we will see where Boeing goes with that. As I said, we haven't had any changes to the demand production schedule from Boeing on that yet and a bunch of those engines are on the 747 as well.

So for us I think if there is a push out of some engines in the first quarter, we may have a little more inventory and having less engines in rev rec may be a slight positive for margins. I don't really know the difference between what we are going to do this year versus what we did in the first quarter last year until we get finalized for Boeing.

But I don't see a material impact on this on us at all and as I said, the engines are performing extremely well. So we feel good. The customers love this plane. They've had a ton of positive feedback and Boeing has to work through this issue and they will work through it. We are confident of that.

JEFF IMMELT: I would echo what Keith said. I think this is an immensely popular airplane, fuel-efficient, passengers like it, airlines like it so we are here to support Boeing wherever it goes on this Dreamliner.

On Energy, I think, Brian, we already factor in the fact that there's going to be an impact on demand [side] management on demand for electricity and you factor that into I think an overall health of the gas portfolio vis-a-vis what happens with nuclear, what happens with the EPA, and then demand growth in places like Saudi Arabia, Algeria, places like that, that still remains I think intact. So we try to factor that all in but we also do factor in energy management. But we also benefit from that in our energy management business.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Daniel Holland, Morningstar.

DANIEL HOLLAND, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. Just curious on what was pushing the industrial CFOA number down I guess about 2% year-over-year, just considering the profit growth and the overall business this year.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, really the biggest dynamic for us, Daniel, is the Wind business. The Wind business had significant progress collections in prior periods and in total, the Wind business was a drag on working capital in 2012 of about $1.5 billion. So the rest of the businesses with their earnings growth and their management of working capital were able to overcome that and then as you know, we had about $400 million of pension funding that we did that we didn't have any in 2011. So that $400 million was also part of the (inaudible). But the biggest driver for us on working capital and was a drag in the year was Wind and the businesses overcame that.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Got you and one last one. Just thinking about margins for next year and kind of simplification strategies you guys have identified, if you think about it on a segment by segment basis, where are the biggest opportunities that you guys see and kind of which ones might have already had the biggest benefit from simplification so far?

KEITH SHERIN: It's pretty broadly across the Company, Daniel. We have every one of our teams working on lowering their structure so having more consolidated higher-level P&Ls. We have everybody participating and putting their back offices into centers of excellence and more shared services across the Company and we have a common IT initiative across the Company to reduce our general ledger and enterprise resource planning systems that is pretty much across the portfolio.

So everybody is participating. Everybody has cost targets and it's pretty broadly based.

JEFF IMMELT: We've got a lot of good restructuring projects that are a year, a year and a half, or two years paybacks and so we are lined up and we think we can keep -- if structural costs keep going down as a percentage of revenue, our target is to really accelerate that.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Great, thanks.

JEFF IMMELT: Trevor, thanks to everybody. I just think the team feels really good about how we did on delivering our commitments in 2012. We have identified very clearly our 2013 commitments, which we believe are very competitive against our peers and we're going to be off executing against that going forward.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Just to wrap up for everyone, the replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital shortly after this call.

Just the one announcement, our first-quarter 2013 earnings webcast will be on Friday, April 19 for your calendars. As always, we will be available today to take questions. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130201e91i0018h
  


 HD
 Q3  2012  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,350 words
   PD
19 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Chanel and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's third-quarter 2012 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning, and the presentation slides are available via the webcast on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Great, Trevor, thanks. Good morning, everybody. Look, we had a good third quarter in a challenging environment. Europe is tough. Asia and resource-rich countries are okay. And the US had pockets of growth, but still some uncertainty.

Revenue growth was good in the environment, with organic growth up 8% in the quarter and 10% year-to-date. We finished the quarter with $203 billion of backlog.

Earnings were solid, growing at 13%. Both Industrial and Capital had double-digit earnings growth in the quarter. Every Industrial business had positive earnings growth for the first time since the third quarter of '05, and our simplification efforts are yielding results with corporate costs ahead of plan.

Margins grew by 70 basis points, consistent with our expectations. CFOA is up 63% year-to-date, and we have repurchased $3 billion of stock. Importantly in this environment, we remain on track for our 2012 framework.

For orders, orders were $21.5 billion. Just some context for orders, factoring in some of the big items. They were up 4% ex-Wind and excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Orders pricing was positive for the quarter and year to date.

The downcycle in Wind is as expected, and gas turbine orders were fairly strong. We saw about $1 billion of orders push out from third quarter to fourth quarter. And our backlog position is strong as we enter the fourth quarter and facing into 2013.

Our key growth engines remain on track. In fact every Industrial business had positive organic growth in the quarter.

Our growth markets expanded by 9%, including China up 23%, Africa up 22%, and Latin America up 21%. We expect six of nine growth regions to have double-digit orders growth in '12.

We had the highest services backlog in our history, with expanding margins. And we have launched successful products including the Flex 60, new subsea technology, and new appliances, and our new aircraft engines are winning high market share.

With our investments in place, we should be able to sustain a solid growth rate into the future.

Our margins are a good story, growing 70 basis points to 14.4%. We had expansion in every business, including Energy if you exclude the impact of our Wind business.

The fundamentals remain strong as we finish the year. Our value gap will be positive in both 2012 and 2013.

We remain on track for $2-billion-plus in structural cost-out through our simplification efforts. We were able to do significant restructuring in the quarter. We are on track for our 100 basis points of improvement in 2012 and 2013, in line with our plans.

Cash is a decent story, with year-to-date total of $10.7 billion, up 63%. The dividend from Capital is a positive story for investors. Our Industrial CFOA has been pressured by an unusual equipment build but should have positive growth in the fourth quarter.

We're executing our capital allocation plans. Year-to-date we have paid out $5.4 billion in dividends and bought back $3 billion of GE stock. Our balance sheet is very strong, and we end the quarter with $85 billion of consolidated cash.

Now over to Keith to review operations.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO.: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with the third-quarter summary. We had continuing operations revenues of $36.3 billion. That was reported up 3%; ex-FX, revenues were up 6%.

Industrial sales of $24.7 billion are up 7%; 10% ex-FX. GE Capital revenues of $11.4 billion were down 5% as we continue to reduce our assets. And our operating earnings at $3.8 billion were up 10%.

Operating earnings per share of $0.36 were up 13%. You can see the 13% excludes the impact of last year's third-quarter preferred stock redemption commitment, which you will remember was an $0.08 reduction in equity. Obviously, not having a repeat of that results in the huge Vs here.

So operating EPS is up 50%. Continuing and net EPS are up 43% and 50%. Continuing EPS includes the impact of non-operating pension, and net EPS includes the impact of discontinued operations, which I will cover on the next page.

As Jeff said, year-to-date cash of $10.7 billion was up 63%, including the dividends from GE Capital. And for taxes, the GE rate of 21% is consistent with the low 20s rate we forecast in the first two quarters; and the year-to-date rate is 22%.

The 4% GE Capital rate is consistent with the mid-single-digit rate that we forecast at the end of the second quarter. And we continue to expect to finish the year with a mid-single-digit GE Capital tax rate.

On the right side you can see the segment results, with total Industrial segment profit up 11%. And it's great to have all five Industrial segments delivering positive earnings growth.

GE Capital also had another strong quarter, with earnings up 11%. So overall, a strong segment growth quarter. I'm going to cover each of the segments in more detail in a minute.

Before I get into those business results, I will take you through the other items from Q3. As we mentioned at the Infrastructure investor meeting, we had $0.03 in one-time benefits related to the gain from NBCUniversal. The majority of the benefit was driven by the A&E transaction. NBCU sold its remaining 16% stake in A&E, and our share of the gain was $0.03 after-tax.

We also had $0.03 after-tax of restructuring and other charges in the quarter. These charges related primarily to continued cost structure improvements in Energy, Healthcare, Aviation, H&BS, and GE Capital. We also had a charge in the quarter related to the planned disposition of one of our plants, as well as costs related to the acquisitions.

On the bottom of the page there was a minimal net impact from discontinued operations in the quarter. We resolved an outstanding item related to the Plastics disposition that resulted in a $0.01 gain at the Parent. And for WMC we had $1.3 billion of claims come in, in 3Q; that is significantly less than the second quarter, but higher than we had previously expected. And that resulted in an after-tax reserve impact of $78 million in the quarter.

So overall, EPS and one-time benefits and costs were relatively offsetting here.

Next I'm going to go to the businesses, and I will start with Energy. Before I get into it, this is the final quarter that we are going to be reporting Energy Infrastructure on this basis. So for the fourth quarter we will be reporting the three new businesses after the reorganization, Power & Water, Oil & Gas, and Energy Management. And later this quarter we will begin providing you with the historical data recast into these three businesses so you can be begin modeling on that basis.

Let me look at the total business. I will start with Energy first.

Orders of $6.5 billion were down 17%. We have said it before, but the impact of Wind is huge here. Ex-Wind, energy orders were flat year-over-year.

Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were down 24%. Again, ex-Wind equipment orders were up 11%.

Thermal orders of $1 billion were up over 160%, and we had orders for 29 gas turbines versus 16 last year. Renewable orders of $518 million were down 72%. We had orders for 241 Wind turbines versus 781 last year.

Total equipment order pricing was down 1.4% with Thermal down 2.6% and Renewables down 4.2%. Year to date, Thermal order pricing is positive 0.8%, and our estimate for the total year is about flat for Thermal order pricing.

Service orders of $3.1 billion were down 3% driven by the declines in Energy Management, down 8% driven by the declines in Energy Management. Power generation services of $1.7 billion were up 1%.

Revenues of $8.9 billion were up 17% driven by the strong volume growth. We had equipment revenue of $5.5 billion, which was up 30%.

We had Renewable revenue of $2.1 billion, which was up 61%. We shipped 1,014 wind turbines versus 633 last year.

Aero derivative revenues of $679 million were up 84% on higher units. We had 44 units this year versus 31 last year, and also larger units.

Thermal revenues of $1.6 billion were down 19%, driven by lower balance of plant revenues, lower pricing, and foreign exchange. Service revenues of $3.4 billion were up 1% driven by Power & Water services. And segment profit of $1.2 [billion] was up 11% as the benefits of all that strong volume and our services strength more than offset the lower pricing. Power Gen Services operating profit was up 15% in Q3.

Now, we have been breaking out the impact of Wind because it masks the remaining business performance. If you take a look in third quarter for Energy ex-Wind in total, revenues would be up 8%, segment profits up 20%, and margins would have been up 146 basis points.

On the Oil & Gas, they had another great quarter. Orders of $4.2 billion were up 7%; up 12% ex-FX. Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were up 10%, driven by growth in turbo machinery and subsea systems.

We had $300 million of orders for the Cheniere LNG project. We had over $200 million of orders for the West-East pipeline projects in China. And we also had over $500 million of order pushouts for two projects that we were working on in Angola and Brazil.

Service orders of $2 billion were up 3%; up 7% ex-FX. And the orders price index was up 1.7%, the sixth consecutive quarter of positive price for this business.

We added $500 million to the backlog in Q3. Revenues of $3.7 billion were up 4%; up 11% ex-FX. And equipment revenues of $1.9 billion were up 2%; service revenues of $1.8 billion were up 6%.

Segment profit of $534 million was up 18% driven by the strong volume growth and lower costs, which were partially offset by negative foreign exchange. Overall, that resulted in 1.7 points of op profit expansion.

So, another good quarter for the Energy and Oil & Gas and Energy Infrastructure in total. And our current estimate for the Energy Infrastructure segment is that profit growth will be about 10% for the total year 2012.

Next is Aviation. Orders of $5.2 billion were down 8%. Commercial engine orders of $918 million were down 51%. When you have backlogs of two to seven years depending on the engine model, we are going to have some quarters with tough comparisons. We also had over $500 million of commercial aviation order pushouts for two customers in Asia this quarter.

Military equipment orders of $1.1 billion were up 104%, driven by transports and Navy F-18 fighters. Service orders of $2.6 [million] were down 11%.

Our third-quarter spares average daily order rate was $22 million per day, which was down 18% versus last year. But it's up from the second quarter, and it seems to have stabilized.

We continue to get pricing on new orders, with total orders pricing up 2.3% in the quarter. Even with the tough order comparisons, overall book-to-bill was 1.09 with both equipment and service up over 1.

Revenue of $4.8 billion was down 1%. Equipment revenues of $2.3 billion and service revenues of $2.4 billion were both down 1%.

We shipped 520 commercial engines versus 565 last year. And in the quarter, we shipped 25 GEnx units versus 28 last year.

Segment profit of $924 million was up 7% as the benefits of positive value gap and lower cost more than offset the impact of the one-time gain last year from the sale of our rings business.

The business improved operating margins rate 150 basis points in the quarter. And if you exclude the impact of last year's gain, op profit would have been up 17%, and op profit rate would have been up 270 basis points.

Transportation. The Transportation business delivered another great quarter. Orders of $1.2 billion were up 21%. Orders pricing was up 0.6%.

Equipment orders of $561 million were up 28% driven by higher international locomotive kits. And service orders of $666 million were up 16%.

Revenue of $1.4 billion was up 9% on strong volume. Equipment revenues of $781 million were up 5% driven by off-highway vehicle equipment, which was up 55%, partially offset by lower locomotive revenues, which were down 13%. We shipped 146 locomotives in the quarter versus 169 last year, and we're on track for a total year estimate of 650 units.

Service revenues of $627 million were up 16%. Segment profit of $265 million was up 35%, driven by the positive value gap and also lower costs. And our op rate here increased 360 basis points in the quarter.

Next is Healthcare. The US market was a little tougher than expected in the quarter. Orders of $4.6 billion were down 1%; they were up 3% ex-FX. Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were also down 1%, up 3% ex-FX, driven by the developed markets down 5%, partially offset by the emerging markets which were up 9%.

Just some of the numbers on orders. The US was down 6%. Europe was down 11%, driven by Southern Europe. China was up 19%. Middle East/Africa/Eastern Europe were up 31%. India was down 17%.

By modality, CT was down 4%; MR was down 9%; Life Sciences was up 3%; and Ultrasound was up 1%.

Service orders of $2 billion were down 1%, also driven by Europe down 12%. And revenues of $4.3 billion were down 1%, or up 3 points FX-adjusted. Emerging markets were the strength here, up 13%, offsetting the developed markets which were down 4%.

Segment profit of $620 million was up 2% as the benefits of the volume growth and cost reductions more than offset lower pricing and some inflation. As a result, operating profit rate was up 40 basis points in the quarter.

On the right side, Home & Business Solutions delivered positive results despite a continued tough environment. Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 1%, as appliance revenues were up 9%, offsetting the lighting revenues which were down 9%.

For appliances, we are seeing some contract channel strength. Contract channel revenues were up 22% driven by housing starts; and retail sales were up 1%.

Pricing is up, and year-to-date share is up about 1.1 points. The new products continue to be well received in the marketplace.

Lighting continued to see volume pressure in both the US and Europe. And overall for the business, segment profit of $61 million was up 61%, driven by the higher pricing, which was partially offset by the material inflation and the lower lighting volume.

Next is GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team delivered another very strong quarter. Revenues of $11.4 billion were down 5%, in line with assets which were down 7%. Net income of $1.7 billion was up 11% driven by improvements in Real Estate as well as lower marks and impairments, partially offset by higher credit costs and, of course, lower assets.

We ended the quarter with $425 billion of ending net investment, a quarter ahead of our target. And we expect ENI to continue to decline further in the fourth quarter. Our net interest margin was 4.9%, up 50 basis points. And there are more details on GE Capital and capital levels in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning.

On the right side you can see the asset quality metrics were stable in the quarter. 30-day delinquencies were down in mortgage, driven by improved collections; and they were up in our US retail business, driven by normal 3Q seasonality. Delinquencies were close to flat in both Real Estate and CLL.

Volume was up 2%, driven by consumer volume up 5%. Commercial volume was down 5% as we continue to originate strong returns. Non-core ENI was down about $6 billion in Q3 versus Q2.

We are substantially done with our 2012 long-term funding. Our capital position strengthened in the quarter. And even after paying $5.4 billion of dividends, we ended Q3 with Tier 1 common of 10.2%, up 56 basis points.

For some comments by business I will start with CLL. Commercial Lending and Leasing business assets were down 8%. We continue to reduce our non-core assets, including third-party funding for Penske and the SeaCo disposition. Commercial volume in the Americas of $7.2 billion was down 3%, while we maintained our pricing on new business to earn over 2% return on investment.

Overall, earnings of $568 million were down 17%. That is driven by lower assets. It's driven by one loss, a $32 million loss on one account in Europe. And it's driven by continued pressure in Italy, about $20 million. Even with those items, our European business earned over $40 million; and the Americas earned $545 million, which was flat with last year and up 3% from the second quarter.

For Consumer, our Consumer assets were down 3%. That is driven by runoff in Europe and Asia, partially offset by growth in US retail.

Earnings of $749 million were down 7%, driven by higher retail reserves in the US, the impact of lower assets in our non-core business, partially offset by the $80 million gain we had from selling our 7.6% of our whole stake in BAY, the bank in Thailand. The US retail business earned $445 million, which was down 4% as the benefits of higher assets and better margins were offset by the higher loss provisions due to additional segmentation of the portfolio more in line with industry standards. Our core European business earned $119 million, which was down 3% on lower assets.

For Real Estate, Real Estate continued to deliver positive performance in the quarter. Earnings of $217 million were up $300 million from last year. They were about flat with Q2. The earnings improvement was driven by lower losses and impairments, tax benefits, and higher core income.

During Q3 we sold 165 properties for $1.7 billion, realizing $121 million of after-tax gains, up $55 million from last year. We continue to shrink our Real Estate book as well. Assets of $55 billion were down 14% versus last year; they are down 4% versus Q2. And in addition we closed the business properties disposition in October, which will result in another $5 billion reduction in Q4.

Next is GECAS. GECAS had another very good quarter. Earnings of $251 million were up 21%, driven by higher core income, partially offset by slightly higher impairments year-over-year.

Net impairments this year were $135 million after-tax versus $107 million last year. Portfolio quality continues to be strong with only $15 million of non-earnings and only three aircraft on the ground.

Energy Financial Services earnings of $152 million were up 67%, driven by asset sales -- $132 million driven by asset sales. We completed $600 million of volume in Q3 at approximately 5% ROIC.

So overall another positive quarter for GE Capital. As we look at finishing the year we think the $1.7 billion net income from third quarter is a good proxy for the fourth-quarter outlook.

We expect lower GECAS impairments. We would expect not to have the BAY gain repeat, and we will continue to have loss of earnings from the shrinking assets ahead of schedule. So that is kind of our view for third-quarter look at run rate into fourth quarter.

With that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. Look, on the operating framework we really have no material changes for the 2012 operating framework. We are on track for double-digit earnings growth in total and for both Industrial and Financial Services earnings.

Our outlook for the Industrial segments remain in line with our September meeting. You can see in the corporate costs line that our simplification efforts are working and sustainable, and we are lowering our estimate for the year to $2.8 billion based on third-quarter performance.

CFOA is on track. Industrial organic revenue growth has been about 10% year-to-date, and we expect it to be about 10% for the year.

We believe that Capital revenue will decline about 10% based on ENI reduction ahead of plan. So total revenue for the entire Company will be up about 3% in 2012.

So to summarize, let's recap the big factors for our investors and how we performed against those objectives. Industrial earnings growth results remain positive; this is fueled by good organic growth and momentum and margin enhancement. As I have said earlier, the simplification efforts really are generating results.

We are executing our plan with GE Capital, making it smaller, more profitable, and restoring the dividend to the Parent. We have returned $8.4 billion to investors year-to-date through dividend and buyback. We are executing a balanced capital allocation plan of growing dividends in line with earnings, value-creating buybacks, and bolt-on acquisitions in the $1 billion to $3 billion range.

The GE team continues to execute in a volatile environment. We expect to continue to outperform in 2012 and 2013. Now, back to Trevor for questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Keith. Chanel, why don't we open up the phone lines for questions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Hi, good morning, guys. One of the things when we try to model out margins and sustainable margin expansion going forward, can you help us understand if there is any way to think about the 70 basis points? How much of that was value gap? How much of that is from past restructuring? Any way to carve that up a bit?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look in the third quarter, Scott, value gap was about a $50 million drag actually in the quarter. That was 2/10 of a point of drag.

Mix, equipment versus services and other mix, was about a half a point of drag, $120 million or so. And cost-out is the real driver here; it's over $500 million. It's 1.4 points of improvement.

And it's across-the-board. It is lower variable costs. It is better base cost performance with this volume. And it's simplification efforts starting to kick in.

So I think -- I don't have it relative to prior restructuring, as you asked. But I think that is a pretty good framework for the third quarter. It's great that the margins have turned positive here, and our expectation is that this margin improvement will continue in the fourth quarter and will increase, obviously, from the third-quarter level to get us to our goal of the total year.

JEFF IMMELT: We still think value gap, Scott, will be positive for the year. It's been up more than $100 million year-to-date before Q3.

KEITH SHERIN: So for the total year it will be slightly positive.

JEFF IMMELT: So for the total year, it will be positive. And I expect it's going to be positive again in '13 as well.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's helpful. Jeff, going back to your beginning remarks on the macro view, it seems that looking at some of the results from your peers that things have degraded a bit in the last couple months. When you are thinking about your planning scenarios for really 2013, because I'm guessing you're in that process now, what are the -- such a wide range of outcomes out there. What are you guys planning for?

And how do you -- and I don't know how you want to comment on it, whether you dial it in by region and what kind of GDP assumptions, or whether you just want to talk about it more subjectively. But what do you plan for, I guess?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, you know, Scott, I think you've got to have pretty -- you've got to factor in a number of different scenarios. I think most people are assuming that the fiscal cliff gets resolved in some way, and I don't think we are alone on that one.

Then, I think just when I look at orders in our growth regions, we will have six growth regions that have double-digit orders growth for the year -- six of nine. That's pretty good, Scott. That gives me some comfort when I look at the resource-rich and rising Asia.

So we still see decent opportunities in China. We still see decent opportunities in the Middle East and Latin America, Russia, places like that.

And then Europe is going to be a grind. Europe is going to be -- we are not assuming that Europe gets any better.

So I think we are looking at '13 as being like '12, with the big variable being the fiscal cliff. And we are ready if it doesn't go through; but we are I think making the same assessment most people do, that somehow it gets resolved.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, guys. I will pass it on.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hey, good morning. Energy Infrastructure, now I guess up 10% for the year. What was the expectation prior to this? It seems like that the growth slows pretty materially in the fourth quarter. Is that timing around Wind or something like that?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, there is another obviously large chunk of revenue in Wind in the fourth quarter, and that is -- it is a drag on us. I think that is probably the biggest factor for us.

We still expect Energy to be up double-digit for the year. Year-to-date they're up about 12%, and for the total year it will be up about 10%. It will be up in the mid-single-digits in the fourth quarter here for us.

STEVE TUSA: Right. So how does that make you feel heading into next year? I guess outside of Wind, the trends there.

And also you talked about orders pricing being up 8% year-to-date, but it's going to come in flat, which means you're going to have a pretty tough orders number, orders pricing number in the fourth quarter. Does that change the views at all that you presented at the Investor Day several weeks ago?

KEITH SHERIN: No. Just to clear up, that's 8/10th of a percent year-to-date through the third quarter, and we are saying we expect it to be flat or slightly positive. So it's not a big change. There is no change in the fourth quarter.

And that is our total year estimate that we have stuck to, Steve. So, no; I think if you go by business you've got to feel great about Oil & Gas.

We continue to build backlog. Our orders are strong. We had some orders slip even in the quarter. The outlook is very strong for next year as we head into the fourth quarter.

For Energy itself, you feel great about the move to gas around the world. It is certainly helping us in terms of our service outlook.

And we have got to continue to fight for every order that you have on the gas turbine side. We are going to have -- we think we will have growing megawatts (multiple speakers) gas turbines sold and the outlook.

JEFF IMMELT: So, Steve, at the end of September we said Power & Water would be up in '12 and flat in '13, and it would be up really double digits ex-Wind in '13. I think we still think that's true.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. That's the forecast.

JEFF IMMELT: We think Oil & Gas would be up double digits this year and next. We still think that's true.

We think Energy Management would be up double-digits in '12 and '13, and we still think that's true. So I think it's pretty consistent with what we said at the Infrastructure Day.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then in Aviation, the service revenues were only down 1 but the service orders were down double-digit. What is going on there?

I know there is some timing around the price increase that pulled forward some business last year. Can you maybe just talk about what you are seeing? Have things stabilized on the spares stuff? Or maybe just give a quick update there.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think spares outlook seems to have stabilized. Gone from in the third quarter -- in the second quarter the spares rate was 20.6; in the third quarter it is 22. Our outlook in the fourth quarter is similar to that.

So right now in the third quarter you are dealing with the biggest negative variance year-over-year, and we are kind of lapping ourselves on that. Our expectation is that at some point -- revenue passenger miles are still positive year over year. Freight is down slightly.

But at the end of the day with all these flights going on, cycles occurring, there is going to be a pent-up demand for service here and we expect that to be positive for 2013. So in the fourth quarter we are not counting on that. We are counting on the spares orders to be about where they are today. And we think that will be a positive in '13, as I said.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. Yes, so Aviation margins, if we strip out the prior gain, were obviously very strong. Can you maybe talk about how the learning curve on the GEnx is impacting the comparisons?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, in the quarter, there's a couple factors going on around GEnx. First of all, you have just a few lower units, so that's a little bit positive year-over-year. We had 28 units last year, 25 units this year.

And then on a margin per unit, we continue to see good improvement. We're on track for our cost reductions as we come down the learning curve.

The other thing is that we are moving into better commercial arrangements as we get out of those launch orders for the GEnx shipments. So I think it is on track. It is positive.

In the fourth quarter we're going to have a big increase in shipments here. We're going to go up -- the total year we're expecting somewhere around 125 shipments, I think, GEnx engines.

So you are going to have -- in third quarter they are down a little; in fourth quarter we're going to go from about 35 last year to close to 60 this year.

NIGEL COE: Okay. But is the contribution margin materially better on the GEnx versus last year?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think the learning curve is down substantially, Nigel. What Keith said is that the original launch orders are usually the most negative from a CM rate. So the combination of those two things I think builds every year, so that gets better in '13.

KEITH SHERIN: You're pricing a 10% improvement in margins year-over-year '11 to '12.

NIGEL COE: Yes, okay. Then, switching to Thermal energy service, I think that was up 1%. To what extent is that number being impacted by deferrals on some of the regular maintenance schedules because of the low gas price?

JEFF IMMELT: If you look at the -- the actual business in Q3 had revenue -- I think, Keith -- up 11% and earnings up 15%; something like that?

KEITH SHERIN: The service, PGS Power Gen Services, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: So, the run rate is not -- it is still a little bit lumpy, but the run rate is not bad. Then on the ongoing order rate it was up 1%. And we still think that some of those are really based on how hard the units are running, and that unwinds itself.

Then Europe, we have a relatively big installed base in Europe. That has, to a certain extent, the opposite issue of units not running. But I think in the US there will be decent growth as time goes on.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the performance in the quarter of power gen services with profit of 15 --

JEFF IMMELT: Pretty good.

KEITH SHERIN: -- was a pretty good quarter.

NIGEL COE: Right, right. Then just finally you mentioned -- you called out a couple of order deferrals, pushouts into 4Q. To what extent is that just normal lumpiness in the business, and to what extent do you think that is being impacted by some concerns around the macro?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I just think you are always going to have some of that with some of the large orders we are dealing with. I mean there was really nothing on the Asia Aviation orders other than just timing of approvals. It just didn't happen in the quarter that we originally estimated it.

I think on some of the Oil & Gas orders, those involve a lot of parties with the large energy contractors and government approvals, and so I think that may be more typical that you're always going to have something pushing around. But for us, over $1 billion seemed to really push out of the quarter.

There were other orders that pushed that seem like normal quarterly things to us. But there were over $1 billion that we would have called out as pushing out.

NIGEL COE: That's great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Thanks and good morning. Hey, can I just switch over to GE Capital first? Just help me understand again; you mentioned the Thai gain. What other gains were in there, and how much again was that Thai gain? And were there any other gains baked into the GE Capital reporting numbers as a normal course of business?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. The Thai gain was $80 million from the sale of some of our shares in BAY. We also had the gains in Real Estate that I talked about from selling properties.

And we had one other gain that was over $50 million in the quarter. It was the sale of a pipeline in EFS. So in the EFS results that was the large driver of the earnings year-over-year.

STEVE WINOKER: Was that 15 or 50?

KEITH SHERIN: Those would be the ones. $58 million.

STEVE WINOKER: Oh, $58 million. Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: $58 million after-tax gain.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. Then was there -- there wasn't anything -- I had heard something about the Irish mortgage bank. There was nothing on that?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have anything on Irish mortgage. I think it was closed with the deal that we previously announced.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, great. Then the Consumer reserve, I just saw it go up from $3.1 billion to $3.4 billion. I'm looking at the credits metrics that you are showing in the supplemental -- sorry, in the regular. I don't -- I am not quite sure I see the connection.

Can you just give me some -- give us some color for the overall increase in reserving and provisioning, and what was driving some of that?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. As I mentioned on the reserves in Consumer, we did update our reserve practice for some more granular segmentation of loss types. Essentially what we're doing is we're doing a more detailed look to determine the period of time from the loss event to the writeoff; the incurred loss period, it is called.

So we did some of that work in the third quarter. The incurred loss period was a little longer using that segmentation. It increased our reserves about $200 million in the US retail finance business in the quarter.

Outside of that, we had the normal seasonality, which did contribute. And we had asset growth which contributed to reserve growth quarter-over-quarter and also year-over-year on asset growth.

So if you look, though, in total, assets were up 10 on retail finance; volumes up 10.

The charge-off rates are down, Steve. They're down 24 basis points year-over-year, 36 basis points quarter-over-quarter. Delinquencies are down 36 basis points year-over-year.

So the fundamentals of this business are still very good. It really is a detailed segmentation of the portfolio that added a couple hundred million dollars to the reserves as opposed to anything to do with asset quality.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. And any impairments on GECAS?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, in GECAS we had impairments. The total number is about $135 [million] after-tax in the quarter. I think in general I would say that some classic 737s were in there; some A320s, old A320s, older A320s; as well as some 50-seat regional jets are probably the three things that would make up that number.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. Last, let me just sneak in one Industrial question. On the 29 gas turbines, what countries?

And that's I know a gross number. Any cancellations or deferrals of just the turbine side too?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, there were no cancellations in the quarter. In terms of where the turbines were, there were quite a few from Saudi Arabia. Hang on one second here.

STEVE WINOKER: I'm mostly interested in the US.

KEITH SHERIN: I have zero in the US. We had a five in China; eight in Saudi; two in Algeria; two in Turkey; seven in Iraq; two in Egypt.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Andrew Obin, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ANDREW OBIN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Just a question on GE Capital. As we look at ROI on new business, what is the sequential trend by business within GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I will give you a few of them. If you look at the Americas for the Commercial business, second quarter was 2.4, third quarter was 2.3.

You look at Asia in CLL, 1.9, 1.9. You look at Asia Consumer 3.6, 3.4.

You look at Europe, CLL was 2.1 in the second quarter; it was 1.7 in the third quarter.

You look at Retail for us in the US, 4.7 in the second quarter; 5.3. So overall, as I showed you, the net interest margins were up 50 basis points and our new business ROIs are still hanging in there on new business volume.

ANDREW OBIN: Sure. Just also on GE Capital, as you extract more capital out of GE Capital, what should we expect for the pace of share buybacks relative to what we saw in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we liked the buyback pace in the quarter, a little over $2 billion. Our objective as we have said is to continue to prioritize the dividend and grow that in line with earnings. We continue to have that point.

The buyback, our objective is to retire the shares that we issued before the financial crisis over the next several years. And we're doing a pretty good job on getting after that.

And the cash from GE Capital obviously is a big help. So if we can continue to get the cash -- although this year we have already gotten all the special dividends; now we are just getting the regular dividend on orders -- or on earnings, that is going to help us a lot with the buyback.

Based on the market we will see what happens in the fourth quarter. We expect to retire somewhere between 125 million and 150 million shares this year.

ANDREW OBIN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITI RESEARCH: Thank you, good morning, everyone. Hey, just a clarification first. There are some headlines coming up about the revenue guidance, Total revenue guidance going from 5% to 3%.

So we already -- you told us that GE Capital revenues are down. Maybe there is some FX. But just if you could parse out for us what the delta is.

KEITH SHERIN: That was the biggest change.

JEFF IMMELT: It's really GE Capital.

DEANE DRAY: Okay, that --

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know if anybody is really forecasting FX. Obviously FX had a big impact on us in the quarter, certainly industrially. But the change on the framework that we showed you was what Jeff said, the GE Capital total year revenue is going to be down closer to 10 than 5, and we thought that was worth updating.

DEANE DRAY: Good. Just wanted to make sure, because there's a couple headlines out there and that clears that up.

Then on the cash flow you said there was some equipment build in the third quarter. That gets resolved. What is the business? Any color there regarding the size?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Obviously we have built up some working capital to support our fourth-quarter shipments. You look at -- it's mostly in Energy, Energy's working capital bill was $1.3 billion through the third quarter.

And we are expecting a big fourth quarter in terms of deliveries. If you look at the profile last year, third quarter to fourth quarter we had a big revenue increase between the quarters. We also had a significant increase in cash flow between third quarter and fourth quarter. Fourth quarter will be our biggest cash flow period for the year, and we are expecting a profile similar to last year, a little higher than last year in terms of cash coming out of Industrial in the fourth quarter.

DEANE DRAY: And progress on the red assets at GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have a specific number. I know in total we are down about $6 billion -- how much? $6 billion on quarter-over-quarter, yes. And there is about $70 billion on balance sheet today on the red assets.

So in the quarter we felt great about it. You look at the runoff we had, I can just give you some numbers on some things that are down.

Year-over-year, UK home lending is down $1 billion, Deane. France is down $1.5 billion. Poland is down $1.3 billion. Spain is down $1 billion. Those are all non-core assets that we are running off here at a pretty good pace.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Just last question for me is maybe some commentary regarding the debt issue for the Parent, because that certainly doesn't happen often and it's never a better time to issue debt when you don't really need the financing.

But just give us a context. There is $7 billion. You did it in three tranches. What are the use of the proceeds?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. It kind of goes back to the first question about -- what do you think about the environment? As we look forward we have a $5 billion debt in GE that matures February. So we decided that we really didn't want to be trying to replace that debt in an environment where the fiscal cliff may be a disruptor or not.

So we decided to go in the fourth quarter. We like the rates. As you said, we did $7 billion.

We will have a big interest savings. If you look on that debt, we will probably have annual savings around $70 million at the rates that we did that debt at, with a mix of 5, 10, and 30 years, as you know.

So we decided to get that out of the way. We know we have to do it. We didn't want to do it in a disrupted environment.

We like the rates where they are. It creates a savings for us. Now, we do have a little higher interest cost in the fourth quarter because of that, but for us it just seemed like the right thing to do.

DEANE DRAY: That's real helpful, thank you.

JEFF IMMELT: Deane, are you clear on the revenue point?

DEANE DRAY: Absolutely.

JEFF IMMELT: Just want to make sure it's clear to everybody.

DEANE DRAY: Appreciate it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Deutsche Bank.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Keith, maybe a question for you. It's really on the Buffet warrants.

With your stock price where it is I am just wondering, what are you thinking of in terms of possibly maybe buying them in advance? And if you don't do that is there a dilutionary impact on a net basis to this that provides for a headwind that maybe we should be thinking about?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, John, if you think about it, the dilution is on amounts above $22.25.

JEFF IMMELT: Right.

KEITH SHERIN: It is de minimis even if you -- we would love to have the stock go up to $25.25. It is still -- that would be less than $400 million of dilution. I think it's 135 million shares that you are talking about the dilution on.

So I am thrilled that we are in the money on them, and yet we are going to have to deal with the dilution. But I don't think it's a big deal for investors.

JOHN INCH: Okay, good. That clears that up.

With zero US gas turbine orders, can you just remind us? What is your latest thought toward the timing of a US gas turbine cycle recovery? Kind of years, and maybe you could blend that in with a little bit of your pricing, what you are seeing on the pricing side, that sort of thing.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, John, I would just go back to what Steve basically said in September. I think -- we think there is activity right now that is going on that will turn into commitments next year. So I think as you go into '13 and into '14 those commitments will go into orders, and I think that pace will grow as each year goes by.

So we are seeing quoting activity right now. We expect to book some orders next year, and we think that will grow over time.

I think the good news is that gas is the fuel of choice. And as new capacity comes in it's going to be gas turbines.

JOHN INCH: Yes. So if the trajectory holds, presumably the price, though, doesn't start to meaningfully kick in until what? '14? If the timeline (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think the good news, John, is that we have been kind of firming a bottom right now. So I think you could see some positive OPI into '13, not great but some positive. Just because I think we have been troughing for the last period of time.

So, I think that will start improving. And then I think it accelerates as time goes on.

JOHN INCH: Just lastly, Jeff, with the cash and the cash position in pretty robust shape, what are your thoughts toward maybe upping your M&A spend targets? Just even given the macro sluggish environment that might be perhaps prompting more companies to consider selling, or make more properties available, what are your thoughts there?

JEFF IMMELT: I go back, John, to our disciplines. I think dividend in line with earnings, we think the dividend is really importantly. Continuing to buy back stock with an eye on getting back to 10 billion shares at some point and the $1 billion to $3 billion.

So if we see a good acquisition in that range that meets our hurdle rates, we will go for it. But it's not burning a hole in our pocket, and we don't think we need it to do what we need to do in '13.

JOHN INCH: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA: Morning, guys. Hey, so just back on the re-segmentation of the US retail business, what was the thought process behind making that choice?

And then the extra provision in the quarter, was that sort of a catch-up? Or what is the normalized annual hit to earnings relative to the way you used to segment it?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think we are going through a process in the retail finance business to take a look at our reserve practices and our segmentation relative to industry standards. In the quarter, we did a couple of factors; we did aged accounts and we did fraudulent accounts. We are basically trying to identify individual events, and then go back and say -- how long is the incurred loss period for that type of event?

And there will be -- there are other categories we are still looking at. If people pass away, if people reach settlements, if people have bankruptcies. So we are basically trying to segment that book into very detailed and more conservative, realistically more conservative look at reserve positions, based on when the incurred loss period actually started.

So I think in the quarter there is no more to come from those categories. I think we are going to continue to look at these other categories.

To us, we are just trying to make sure that we are in line with industry practices and it is something that we are going to do through fourth quarter and first quarter, I believe.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. So any estimate of sort of what the more conservative method is in terms of a dollar amount on the earnings impact for a year?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't. I would say the one thing I would look is if I think about the outlook from third quarter to fourth quarter, I think retail finance probably has an outlook that is similar in the fourth quarter to what they had in the third quarter.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: So even though they've had this one-time thing, I think if you look at the outlook it is probably going to be -- based on volume growth and based on whatever we are doing with reserves, our outlook is probably close to what we had in the third quarter.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Then just Energy into 4Q, can you give us a little more feel on the number of wind turbine units and the pressure you're expecting? The margin this quarter was like 13.6% for the pure Energy business. preview normally have this seasonal uptick, but you've got this pressure. Can you maybe gauge where you see those going?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I gave you the total number. If the total year is going to be up 10%, and you look at where we are third quarter to date, I think you can get a pretty good estimate of what we think the margin is for Energy for the fourth quarter. I don't have the exact dollars, but I mean that math is pretty clear.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Then what are you thinking for wind turbine units?

KEITH SHERIN: It's 750 or so. 750 or so units.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. All right. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH: Thank you. Good morning, gentlemen. I wanted to drill a little bit farther into Power Service if we could. Just some color on what you're actually seeing your customers do?

So you're running at higher utilization. I wonder if there is some dynamic, though, that we are running more baseload as opposed to peaking cycles and that's -- is that playing into what seems to be softer orders there than I guess we would all guess given the trends in the business right now?

KEITH SHERIN: I think you heard some of this from Steve Bolze at the Infrastructure meeting, Jeff. Basically you're absolutely right. I mean, people are running the gas turbines a lot more and they are running them as baseload.

That is ultimately good news, and I think the idea is going to be you're going to have either sooner maintenance needs or maybe there will be a little deeper overhaul when you get in to fix and repair these units when they do have an overhaul.

But Steve's message was that these are going to pull in. Running these things at full baseload power at this point is maybe pulling in overhauls by three months, six months, in the out years. These overhauls are pretty well scheduled based on times the units are going to run.

So I think it's a positive. I think it is all a positive. But I think it's a little further out there. But right now they are definitely running gas turbine units a lot more, and they are running them as baseload.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, we said, I think in September that we expected good earnings growth from Power Gen Services in '13, and we don't see anything that changes that assessment.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Yes, I thought the comment was actually was flattish for '13 on Services. No?

KEITH SHERIN: Flattish overall for the Power(multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: Flattish for the Power & Water business.

KEITH SHERIN: Power & Water business.

JEFF IMMELT: Power & Water business. But for Services we expect growth. We expect Wind to be negative.

JEFF SPRAGUE: As we get closer to this Wind downturn, is it actually playing the way you thought In terms of the magnitude of drop next year?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Jeff, it is. I think we expect revenues will be down probably 40%, something like that next year. We have always said that it would be about $0.03 of headwind next year.

And that really assumes kind of no market in the US. There is some discussion about whether or not there is a production tax credit as you do some kind of tax deal at the end of the year. And if there is one, I think that would be good for the business, but it's not something we are counting on.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then finally, just thinking about cash flow, it does look like a challenge in Q4. The idea of the working capital draw is understandable.

But does that cash flow forecast, is it also predicated on particular order strength in the fourth quarter that would drive deposits or progress payments? Is that any part of the equation?

KEITH SHERIN: Not really, Jeff. I think progress remains a headwind.

It is an unusual year just because of the spike in Wind and stuff like that. So this has just been an unusual year from that standpoint.

But I think we see the working capital levers to -- for cash. So pretty similar profile to last year in the fourth quarter.

I think the one difference is you do have the Wind progress coming down, and we factored that in, Jeff. We don't have any replenishment of the Wind progress in the forecast. And basically we are shipping that in the fourth quarter.

So I think we are taking that into account. But it's a big fourth quarter, and we've got to execute.

JEFF SPRAGUE: All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, good morning. Yes, firstly on Aviation, I just wanted to follow up on your comments around some push outs at some Asian carriers. Also in the segment profit growth, you call out the value gap and productivity driving up EBIT year on year.

I just wanted to check what the latest thoughts were on R&D, around the headwinds there, in light of the LEAP-1A and 1B designs being frozen. Are you still on track for R&D to start moving flat to down in '13?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, we are on track for the R&D. If you look at the margins in the quarter, stronger pricing was a big part of it, and cost productivity was the other part that Aviation got. And we expect those two factors to continue.

If you look at R&D in Aviation itself, it was up about -- it was down about 7% and it's holding steady around 5% of revenue. So as a percent of revenue, as we said, we don't expect this to continue to be a drag.

We will see what happens as we get into '13, but we like the position we are in those engines. We have gone to design freeze on two of the three versions of the LEAP, and we're on track for the design freeze on schedule for the third version.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. And just the comments around some of the push outs on the OE side?

KEITH SHERIN: The push outs, yes. It's purely -- my understanding of it, it's purely a signature approval and it's not someone wondering whether they are going to take these planes. So we are highly confident that these orders are going to happen in the fourth quarter.

It's two customers and it's about $500 million now. Again, if you remember last year in the fourth quarter, I think equipment was up 20-plus%.

JEFF IMMELT: We had a huge orders quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: Huge order quarter in Aviation. So again with these backlogs we are going to have that type of lumpiness. But these orders, there is no -- it's not like someone worrying about their fleet planning or anything.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Got it. Then just secondly on Healthcare, the picture the past 12 months has been very good growth in emerging markets; Europe very weak; and the US kind of hanging on. Looking at the US equipment order trends the last couple of quarters, is there -- are you worried that that is starting to roll over? Maybe six months from now the numbers are looking down high-single-digit, that sort of range, as you are looking at US Healthcare specifically?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't see that, Julian. I think it is kind of -- it's around flat and it's going to continue to be around flat. There is nothing that our guys see that suggests it is getting materially worse as time goes on. I just think it's a tough market, but it's not like Europe.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Chanel, we have -- wanted to finish up by 9.30 because of some other earnings calls. Let's take a couple more then close out.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Just wanted to follow up on the Aviation aftermarket. You talked about expectations of improvement next year. Wondering if you had any sense of what kind of impact you have had this year from the earlier than normal retirements of younger planes, and cannibalization for parts, and whether you expect that to continue or whether you really haven't seen much of that.

KEITH SHERIN: That has been part of our run rate and analysis for the business already, to take a look at where are used serviceable parts going to come from. I think the biggest impact that we have had this year really has been on the wide-body. It's -- the CF6 is down; it is down by overhauls and freights; and it's really a maintenance pressure on us while the CFM products and the GE90 products are both up. So on the more prevalent installed base narrow-body growth that we have had, you're starting to see those engines come in for overhaul; certainly the GE90 and the 777, you are seeing those engines come in for overhaul.

And we're just seeing a push out. I think a lot of it is freight. I think some of it is Europe and some of it's some of the older applications the CF6 is on. And we're really having to deal with that more than cannibalization on the narrow-body product.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. Thanks. And briefly on capital, we've heard a lot this earnings season about CapEx being pushed out. You have certainly alluded to the fiscal cliff and whatnot. Have you seen any impact on CLL loan demand? Or is there still sufficiently few competitors that you are still able to originate as much as you want there?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we said the Commercial volume is down about 5%. I think a bigger part of that is this; it is uncertainty. It is people not willing to spend until they have a more certain environment around whether it is taxes or healthcare or social costs or things like that, and just the general backdrop in terms of confidence.

So I think we have seen some of that. We are seeing a nice volume in the equipment side in the CLL business. But on the CapEx side I would say that has been soft.

JEFF IMMELT: Soft, yes.

JASON FELDMAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg, Langenberg Investments.

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, LANGENBERG INVESTMENTS: Hey, guys. Really quick one. About the $300 million of restructuring you did, can you just layer that around the segments? Like how much impact there was in each of the Industrial segments.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look at it by business, I'll give you after-tax numbers. Energy was $50 million; Healthcare was $27 million; GE Capital was $25 million; H&BS was $17 million; Aviation was $16 million; and about $100 million was associated with the plant exit.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay, great. All right. We'll have follow-ups for later, but thank you very much.

JEFF IMMELT: Great. Just before I wrap up I just wanted to get some thoughts about the Company going forward, just with all the volatility in the environment. I think our Aviation business we're really winning in the marketplace with a massive backlog. Oil & Gas is a fast growth market with a lot of opportunity for expansion.

I think our Power & Water business is really well positioned for a gas cycle. Healthcare remains a diagnostic leader with the great growth market foundation. Our Transportation business is well positioned for growth based on new technology and global expansion. Energy Management has room to grow. And our Consumer businesses will benefit from an improving housing cycle.

At GE Capital, smaller, stronger, and more competitive. And we're operating the Company well with large backlogs, I think successful acquisitions, expanding margins, and substantial cash.

So for an investor's standpoint, while the environment is volatile I think our path for growth and execution is very well understood by the team, and we think this quarter demonstrates that. And we think we feel good about how we are positioned for the fourth quarter and 2013. So, Trevor, thanks and have a good day.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. A couple of items to close out the day. A replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.

I do have some announcements of some upcoming investor events. First, on Wednesday, December 12, Steve Bolze, our President and CEO of GE Power & Water, will host a plant tour at our manufacturing facility in Greenville, South Carolina. More details will be sent in the coming weeks about that.

Second, our annual Outlook Meeting, investor meeting with our Chairman and CEO, will be held in New York City. Likely to be at 30 Rock again. It will be held on Monday, December 17. We will send out more information regarding that event.

And finally, our fourth-quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be held on Friday, January 18. Thank you, everyone. As always we will be available today to take your questions.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121102e8aj0015p
  


 HD
 Q2  2012  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,805 words
   PD
20 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Chanel and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We're pleased to host today's second-quarter 2012 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning. The presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are also available for download or printing on our website at www.ge.comm/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Trevor, and good morning, everyone. The GE team had another good quarter. Let me start by giving you a few of the main points.

First, we are confident in our earnings outlook for 2012. We remain on track for double-digit Industrial and Financial earnings growth for the year. We restarted the GE Capital dividend, returning $3 billion to the parent in the second quarter.

The environment continues to be challenging. The US is stable. The appliance market grew by 1%. With housing starts up more than 30%, that bodes well for the future.

Rail loadings were up 1.2%, and our retail volume in our private label credit card business is up 9%. We saw solid growth in the emerging markets with revenue up 17%, and Europe remains very tough but within our expectations.

Our revenue was strong with organic growth of 10%. Orders were up 1%, and up 3% ex-Wind. And through the first half, orders were up 8%. Orders pricing was up 1.2%, and foreign exchange impacted revenue by $900 million in the quarter.

Earnings grew by 12%, better than plan. Capital, Energy, Oil & Gas, Transportation, appliances were strong. Disc ops continues to be a headwind.

We have a very strong cash and liquidity position. We bought back $900 million of stock in the second quarter and plan to do an additional $3.5 billion to $4.5 billion by year-end.

Margins are improving, and we are on track for margin growth starting in the third quarter and for 2012 and 2013. So overall, the team continues to make progress.

Orders are up 8% year-to-date and consistent with our plans for the year. For the quarter, orders were about flat.

It is important to explain the impact of two unusual items, foreign exchange and strong Wind orders in 2011. Discounting the impact of these factors, orders were up about 3% in the second quarter. And in Energy equipment orders were up about 9%.

Orders pricing was the highlight, with four of five businesses growing, and we continue to build backlog. Europe remains weak, particularly in service. Our orders position today supports our growth plans for the future.

Our investment growth continues to pay off. Growth market revenue expanded by 17% with seven of nine regions experiencing double-digit gains. For instance, China was up 24% and Latin America was up 50%.

Services grew by 2% and backlog grew by $4 billion. And our NPI continues to work. We won big in Farnborough with $17 billion in new Aviation commitments. Our Mission 1 refrigerator sold out, and we have two more appliance products launching in third quarter.

We are expanding our battery plant. Our platform in Russia is resulting in new gas turbine orders and high market share. And we have a very strong product line in Healthcare. Orders growth in the second quarter for MR was up 10%, and CT was up 12%.

And we are adding value in our acquisitions. So in these volatile markets, we are winning commercially.

We made progress on our margin commitments. We expect margins to grow starting in the third quarter, and to be up 30 to 50 basis points in 2012, and 100 basis points over '12 and '13.

At EPG I described our approach to margins. In the second quarter, value gap was a positive $100 million. Service margins grew by 10 basis points. Our acquisitions are ahead of plan, although still a drag overall.

I also said that we would reduce structural costs by $2 billion between '12 and '14 by simplifying GE. And you saw some of that today with the elimination of the top Energy structure.

There are some benefits to that move for investors. With all the acquisitions, our Energy business had become very big and complex. Power & Water will remain GE's largest Industrial business. We are benefiting from a positive gas turbine cycle.

Oil & Gas is about $15 billion in revenue, and we are positioned for rapid growth. And Energy Management at $7 billion has several solid growth platforms.

These moves will allow us to become faster and more focused to win in each market. At the same time you'll get transparency around three large and important segments that all have different opportunity for growth and are led by strong management teams. We expect to eliminate $200 million to $300 million in costs.

Actions like this are always done carefully at GE. John and I have been working on this for some time and both feel it is right for the Company.

As you can see by our second-quarter results, our Energy business is doing very well. We expect the second half in Energy to be very strong, and we are well positioned for 2013 and beyond.

John and I will work on a smooth transition in the third quarter, with three leaders reporting directly to me in the fourth quarter. John leaves the Energy business in great shape.

And cash is a great story. With the capital dividend we're at $6.8 billion in the first half, up 55%. This is ahead of our expectation.

Working capital was impacted as we prepare for high shipments in the second half. We end the quarter with $74 billion of consolidated cash.

And there is another piece of good news. Due to changes in pension funding requirements, our pension cash needs will be reduced by $2.5 billion '12 and '13.

Now let me turn it over to Keith.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Jeff, thanks. I'm going to start with the second-quarter summary. As you can see we had continuing operations revenues of $36.5 billion. That is reported up 2%, but we were impacted by the stronger dollar; ex-FX revenues were up 5%.

Industrial sales at $25.1 billion are up 9%. GE Capital revenues of $11.5 billion were down 8%, consistent with our planned shrinkage.

Operating earnings of $4 billion were up 7%. Operating earnings per share of $0.38 were up 12%.

Continuing earnings per share includes the impact of the non-operating pension, and net earnings per share include the impact of Discontinued Operations, reflecting the $0.05 in charges this quarter which I will cover on the next page.

As Jeff covered, year-to-date cash of $6.8 million was up 55%, including the $3 billion of cash from GE Capital.

For taxes the GE rate, 20%, is consistent with the low 20%s rate we forecasted at the end of the first quarter. And the year-to-date rate for GE is 22%.

The 5% GE Capital rate, that is lower than the approximately 10% rate we had previously forecast. The lower rate is largely due to the business property disposition tax benefit that I'm going to cover on the next page.

With the impact on the year from the Business Property disposition, the tax benefits we get with that, that is going to allow us to shrink Real Estate a lot more quickly. We now expect a mid-single-digit GE Capital rate for the year.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial revenues were up 9%. Industrial segment profit was up 7%.

That is driven by the double-digit growth in Energy, Oil & Gas, Transportation; and GE Capital earnings were up 31%. So I'm going to cover each of the segments in more detail in a page or two, but let's start with the other items in the quarter.

As you know, GE Real Estate announced the sale of its Business Properties business. We had $0.02 of tax benefit in the second quarter from the high tax basis we have in the shares of the entity that we are selling.

This transaction is expected to close, hopefully, by the fourth quarter and will result in $5 billion of lower Real Estate ending net investment. The BP tax benefit here is recorded in the GE Capital headquarters' results in the second quarter; so you won't see that in Real Estate, you will see that in Corporate and Capital.

We also added $0.02 after-tax of restructuring and other charges in the quarter. The charges primarily related to continued cost structure improvements at GE Capital, Energy, Healthcare, Corporate; and we also had one-time costs related to the acquisitions.

On the bottom of the page we had a $0.05 charge related to our WMC and Grey Zone reserves this quarter. I will start with Grey Zone.

We did see daily claims reductions in the range of what we were expecting in our models in December and January. But since then we have seen an uptick in the claims number over the last few months and the increases, are above what we modeled. The claim severity, the amount per claim, is running within our modeled expectations.

But because of the higher claims, we booked $310 million of additional reserves. That reflects a slower overall claims reduction rate than we had previously modeled. And we ended the quarter with $695 million of reserve.

For WMC, at the end of the second quarter there were $2.7 billion of pending claims, up from $562 million last quarter. You saw that in the first-quarter 10-Q, that the claims were increasing.

This acceleration in the quarter we think is driven by statute of limitations considerations. But we saw an uptick above what we expected. The reserve that we booked is based on our historical WMC experience, plus it includes an estimate for future claims.

The WMC ended the quarter with $491 million of reserves, up from $140 million in the first quarter. We're going to continue to monitor both these items, but we believe the exposure is manageable.

So let me go on to the businesses. The first business is Energy Infrastructure, and I will begin with the Energy segment.

Energy had a strong quarter in Q2. Orders of $7.8 billion were down 6% driven by the non-repeat of last year's Wind orders.

Equipment orders of $4.4 billion were down 5%. Thermal orders of $1.4 billion were up 10%. We had orders for 30 gas turbines in Q2 versus 41 last year; however, we also had orders for five steam turbines this year versus one last year, and we had higher thermal order pricing.

Wind orders of $900 million were down 37%. Equipment orders ex-Wind were up 9%, and we had orders for 428 units versus 668 last year.

Total equipment order pricing for the Energy business is up 2.7%. Thermal is up 5% and renewable pricing is also up 5%, so a nice turn there.

Equipment orders even including Wind are up 9% year-to-date. So a little bit of this is Wind, and a little bit is just the timing of orders. And at the half we feel pretty good about where we are.

Service orders of $3.4 billion were down 8%. That is driven by lower upgrades in outage services. We did see customers continue to run their gas turbine equipment as a result of the low natural gas prices in the quarter.

Aero services were down as a result of tough comparisons. Last year we booked 10 rental units for Japan. And revenues of $8.6 [million] were up 19%, driven by all the strong volume.

Renewable revenues led the way. At $1.8 billion it was up 160%. We shipped 726 wind turbines versus 269 last year.

And thermal revenue of $1.6 [million] was down 20%. We shipped 31 gas turbines versus 32 last year, with some mix differences. Both gas engines and Aero derivatives had strong volume growth, and service revenue at $3.7 billion was up 4%.

Segment profit of $1.3 billion was up 15%, and that is driven by the strong volume that we saw in the product lines.

On the second business in Energy, Oil & Gas, they also had another strong quarter. Orders of $4.1 billion were up 1%. They were up 6% ex- the impact of the strong dollar.

Equipment orders of $2 billion were down 8% driven by tough comparisons to the last year. However, again, if you look at year-to-date equipment orders for Oil & Gas, they are up 21%; and service orders at $2.1 billion were up 11%. The orders priced index for the business was up 1.8%.

Geographically we continue to see strong growth in Asia Pacific, up 60%. North America was up 27%. Middle East was up 19%.

That was partially offset by Western Europe, which was down 17%. And Australia was where we had the large one-time orders last year, so that gives us some tough comparison.

Revenue of $3.7 billion was up 5%. Equipment revenue of $1.7 billion was flat, and it's up 6% ex-FX. Service revenues at $2 billion were up 10%.

Segment profit, $535 million, was up 11% as the strong volume and positive price more than offset the negative impact of foreign exchange on the business. So overall, a really nice strong quarter in Energy, and we have a very good outlook as we look to the second half.

Next is Aviation. Orders of $5.6 billion were up 5%. Commercial engine orders at $1.3 billion were down 19%. CFM56 orders were up 12% and orders for GE90 and CF34 were down in the quarter.

Military equipment orders of $1.2 billion were up 200% driven by F110 foreign military orders. And the equipment order book-to-bill in the business was 1.22.

Service orders at $2.6 billion were down 3%, driven by commercial services. Our second-quarter average daily order rate, $20.6 million per day, which was down 14%, partially offset by our long-term service agreement orders which were up 5%. The total orders priced index was positive at 2.2%.

If you look from a market perspective in Aviation, the year-to-date passenger traffic is up 6.5% through May. Cycles flown have been about flat over the last 12 months.

However, we continue to see the impact of customers' working capital actions. For example, in Western Europe, our spares orders were down 34%, and right now our expectation for the second half -- this is going to recover somewhat. We don't expect it to get back to last year's levels, but we do expect it to improve over what we saw in the second quarter.

Revenue of $4.9 billion was up 3%, driven by strong equipment volume partially offset by the lower spare sales. We shipped 566 commercial engines in the quarter versus 473 last year. And we shipped 27 GEnx engines, up from four last year.

Segment profit at $922 million was down 4%, as the benefits of positive price and lower base costs were more than offset by the lower spares.

On the right side, Transportation. They delivered another great quarter.

Orders of $1.4 billion were up 2% and for the first half orders were up 29%. Equipment orders of $808 million were down 3%; lower mining orders more than offset higher locomotive orders. Service orders of $590 million were up 10%, and the orders pricing was up 1.1%.

Revenue at $1.6 billion was up 27% driven by the strong volume. We shipped 243 locomotives versus 163 last year. We also shipped 195 locomotive kits versus 94 last year, and mining equipment was up over 30%. For the first half we shipped 402 locomotives, and our estimate for the total year is around 650 units.

Segment profit of $282 million was up 58% driven by the strong volume, positive pricing, and positive service results.

Next is Healthcare. Orders of $4.7 billion were up 1%. This business was also impacted by a strong dollar; up 4% ex-FX.

Equipment orders at $2.7 billion were up 4% driven by strong growth in emerging markets, partially offset by Europe. If you just go around the regions on equipment orders, the US was flat; China was up 26%; Latin America was up 9%; Middle East was up 13%; India was down 8%, but up 9% ex-FX. Europe was the soft point, down 13%, driven by Southern Europe.

And just a few numbers by modality. Global ECG was up 12%, MR was up 10%, Life Sciences were up 6%, and the PET business was down 14%.

Service orders of $2 billion were down 2%, also driven by Europe down 10%. And revenues of $4.5 billion were flat, or up 3% FX-adjusted. Emerging markets were up 11%, offsetting the developed markets, which were down 2%.

Segment profit, $694 million, was down 2% as the benefits of the volume and productivity were more than offset by negative price. And we had execution challenges of about $30 million in Latin America. Excluding those, we would have had Healthcare up about 2% in the quarter.

Home & Business Solutions had another tough quarter, but we did see some positive signs in appliances. Revenues of $2.2 billion were up 2% as appliances revenues were up 10%, partially offset by lighting revenue which was down 8%.

If you look at appliances, retail sales were up 11%. Contract sales were up 22%. As Jeff said, we saw a strong pickup in housing starts.

Appliances saw 5 points of price increase in the quarter. And at the same time, we increased share again, reflecting the benefit of the investments we have been making in new products over the last 18 months.

As you know, we introduced a new bottom freezer refrigerator this quarter. It was sold out. We are doubling the production rate.

And the offset is in lighting. We saw volume pressure in the US and Europe driven by lower incandescent sales.

Segment profit of $91 million was driven by appliances, and the benefits of higher pricing were more than offset by inflation and lower lighting volume.

Next is GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team delivered another very positive quarter. Revenue of $11.5 billion was down 8%, in line with the assets, which are down 7%.

Net income of $2.1 billion was up 31%. That is driven by lower impairments, principally in Real Estate; plus we had some one-time tax benefits that I covered on the other items page. That was partially offset by some of the dispositions we have been making as we shrink GE Capital. I'll cover all of those items by business in a minute.

We ended the quarter with $433 billion of ending investment, already below our original $440 billion target for the year. And we are on our way to about $425 billion for the end of the year.

Our net interest margin was 4.9%, up 47 basis points. There are more details on GE Capital and margins and capital levels in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning.

On the right side you can see the asset quality metrics continue to be good, as delinquencies fell in CLL, Real Estate, and the US retail. They were up slightly in mortgage, and that is a seasonal effect that we see.

A big highlight is the continued improvement in commercial real estate. We also saw strong volume at good margins. We continue to shrink our non-core assets.

And even after paying the $3 billion dividend, our Tier 1 common ended the quarter at 10.1%, up a full point over last year.

So if you look at some of the business results, the Commercial Lending and Leasing business -- if you look, assets were down 7% year-over-year driven by non-core runoff. Commercial volume in the Americas was $7.7 billion, up 2%; and returns on new volume remained at a 2% return on investment.

Earnings of $626 million were down 11%. That was mostly impacted by $60 million of year-over-year pressure in Italy from credit costs. Even with that, our European business earned over $50 million in the quarter; and the Americas earned $527 million, which was down 3%.

Our Consumer results were better than the reported variance shows. Assets were down 7%. That is somewhat driven by foreign exchange and non-core runoff. That is partially offset by $5 billion of growth in the US retail business.

Earnings of $907 million were down 13%, again driven by last year's exit of Colpatria and other non-core assets.

The US retail business had a great quarter. They earned $641 million, up 9% on higher assets and higher margins.

Europe core business earned $154 million, up 13% on lower credit costs. And UK home lending had another good quarter, earning $45 million in the quarter; and the portfolio quality remains stable.

Real Estate was the driver of the earnings growth in the quarter. Net income of $221 million, that is up $555 million over last year. It's up $160 million from first quarter.

The earnings were driven by lower marks and impairments, one-time tax benefits, and lower credit costs. In the quarter, we had $5 million of after-tax credit costs, $19 million of after-tax marks and impairments. That is the lowest level we've had in years.

We sold 55 properties for $700 million, resulting in $53 million of gains. So the improvements that we have seen in liquidity and valuations continued in the second quarter; and as of now, we expect the Real Estate business to remain profitable as we look into Q3 and Q4.

GECAS had another good quarter. Assets were up 2%, driven by strong volume and over 3% ROIs. Earnings of $308 million were down 4%, driven by two small credit losses.

The portfolio quality here continues to be strong. We have $56 million of non-earnings in the whole portfolio, and only three aircraft on the ground out of over 1,500 aircraft.

Energy Financial Services earnings, $122 million, were down 12%. We had $850 million of volume in the quarter at approximately 5% returns.

So another great quarter for GE Capital. If you look at the Q2 earnings of $2.1 billion from a run-rate perspective going forward, I'd take a few items into consideration.

First the BP tax benefits that I covered don't repeat at the Q2 amount as you go into the second half. Second, the third quarter includes our annual GECAS impairment review, which you are all familiar with. Last year the impact of that was $107 million after-tax. I don't know what it will be this year; I just give you last year's numbers for context.

And third, we are expecting that retail reserves will be higher as they usually are in the third quarter seasonally. Last year retail credit costs increased $188 million after-tax from Q2 to Q3. So, with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith. Now to the operating framework. We want to confirm our operating framework for the year.

We expect Industrial earnings to grow double digits. Energy is going to have a very strong second half, and margins will be positive in the third quarter and for the year.

Capital earnings will grow double digits; commercial Real Estate has improved dramatically; and Europe is manageable. Corporate is on track and we'll offset any gains with restructuring.

Cash expectations are being revised upward because of the capital dividend and pension change. We now expect $17 billion to $19 billion of CFOA for the year.

Organic Industrial revenue growth should continue to expand 5% to 10%, and we will continue to shrink GE Capital. So, we have a very solid outlook for 2012 and good momentum as we turn the corner for 2013.

Finally, I think there is a lot of positive news in this report for investors. We have a solid industrial outlook. We have a big backlog, and margin performance is on track for the expansion we communicated at EPG.

We are getting cash from GE Capital and we will continue to position it to be a smaller, more valuable franchise. We have a lot of cash. We plan to use the $4.5 billion Capital special dividend to buy back additional stock, and those efforts will accelerate in the third quarter.

Meanwhile, we will continue to grow the GE dividend in line with earnings. So in a volatile environment, GE is positioned for double-digit earnings growth and valuable capital allocation, and this is a powerful combination for investors.

Trevor, let me turn it back over to you, and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, Jeff. Chanel, we are ready to go to the questions right now.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning. So, just on the Aviation front, Europe down pretty dramatically, but the margin was still okay in spite of that. You said it is going to improve a little bit in the back half. How do we think about Aviation margin as we turn the corner into the back half and in third quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think if you look at the quarter, we were 19% margins, down from 20% last year. Really the good news in Aviation -- the good news/bad news on margins is we are getting tremendous equipment growth and then we have a negative on equipment service mix, Steve.

I would expect that you're going to continue to see that. We have a tremendous backlog on commercial equipment. But you have seen a couple other points in Aviation.

The R&D as a percent of revenue has leveled off. They are controlling their costs, and the improvements that they have made on everything they are doing with the launch of the GEnx continue to help us as we look at the pressure that the GEnx engines deliver.

So for me, I think if you look, the orders for Aviation were down. Spare orders were down in the quarter, right? We went down from -- in the quarter -- just let me get the ADOR. Last year, first quarter was 23 a day; second quarter was 20.6.

Last year was 27 in the third quarter, Steve. We do not anticipate that we are going to get back to that level. But I do anticipate that -- and the business is forecasting -- that we will be up in the mid-single digits over the second-quarter levels that we saw.

So I think Aviation is one that we are confident about the outlook for the year being a positive in terms of op profit. In the third quarter, there is one item. Last year, we had gain, if you remember; it was about $70 million. That won't repeat.

So that -- in the third quarter, I am not anticipating a really big margin number for these guys. But we do anticipate an improvement in spares over the second quarter, and we do anticipate them to be positive on op profit for the year.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. Then just one last question on the Energy business. Thermal pricing up 5%. Orders were down, obviously a pretty tough comp.

How booked are you guys from a thermal perspective? How booked are you guys for next year? My guess is your visibility is obviously getting better as you get closer there.

Do we expect more orders here in the second half of the year? Given that I think your book-to-bill is still below 1 in thermal, but the pricing is obviously picking up very nicely, showing the market is tightening, which is a positive.

But I guess how -- can you give us a sense as to how booked you are, if we were to just assume a flat growth year in turbines? How booked are you for next year?

JEFF IMMELT: Sure. I don't have the exact turbine number, but I would say right now our business is about flat with what we normally would see in terms of booked orders, and we are about normal on commitments or things that the team is working, as you look to a flat year in gas turbines for next year. We are going to have that big infrastructure meeting in September, and we will give you a nice update there, I would say.

STEVE TUSA: I mean that should grow, right, next year, I would think? That's got to be part of your --

JEFF IMMELT: I think we will be up a little bit, Steve, but it is still early. I would say the commitments are still early in the process. But I still think the overall market is firming.

STEVE TUSA: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning. Guys, can you give us a little bit of color on the timing and why John Krenicki is leaving with the re-org?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, John and I have been working on this for -- I don't know, six or nine months. I think with all the acquisitions and everything, we had kind of a $50 billion company within a company.

I think from our standpoint really as an operating company, I think the idea to get a little bit faster and more focused on those three businesses seemed to be a logical position. And I think John saw it the same way.

We discussed him taking other roles inside the Company, subsequent roles inside the Company. I think his sense is that it is a good time to think about other things that he can do.

John and I have worked together for 25 years. I think this is just one of those natural evolutions in GE that we do as time goes on to better match up with the markets. The business itself is in very strong shape, and in some ways that makes change easier.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. One of the questions we get quite a lot, Jeff, is where you guys want to be in mining longer-term. Maybe this is a good time to talk about what you want to be, what your strategy in mining is, and where -- what's the end-game? Where do you want to be, and how do you get there?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, what I would say is that you've got positioning around -- we already have a big business in propulsion. We've already got a pretty big business in power conversion around the mine. It is a -- fits our footprint from a standpoint of product service, global footprint, energy, water. So we have a nice package of products for it.

I kind of look at it the same way I looked at Oil & Gas 10 years ago. I don't see doing big acquisitions. I think we can grow sequentially.

So I would look at it as a good additional segment where we are about $2 billion in revenue a year. We can grow probably 10% in an orderly way, relatively high margins, and do it over time. It is a nice way to leverage our footprint.

But I don't think you are going to see anything big or a sudden from us as it pertains to mining. I just think we look at it as a sequential build.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure, okay. Thanks. I'll pass it on. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. Hey, guys, wonder if you would talk a little bit more about your margin confidence, both for the second half and for '13.

I guess in the second half, Aviation is pretty locked and loaded. But maybe you can come back to the execution challenge on the ramp-up in Wind volumes and how you feel like the supply chain is looking in that context, to start.

Then, Jeff, on 2013, talking about 100 basis points of expansion there, maybe you can talk a little bit about what you see as the drivers there and how contingent that is on the global macro growth rates implied.

JEFF IMMELT: So, Terry, again, I think if you go back to EPG we said 30 to 50 basis points this year, and 100 basis points in total over '12 and '13. Right? I think that is still the way we look at it.

So if you take a look, we go positive in Q3. Energy drives a big chunk of that. I think we are hitting our sweet spot a little bit in Energy, and we see that to be very strong.

We also see good expansion in our Transportation business. We have some easy comps in Home & Business Solutions that make margin enhancement there actually relatively easy.

Keith talked about the Aviation margin outlook. In Healthcare we had some execution issues that shouldn't repeat going into third quarter, so I see Healthcare going positive in Q3 as well.

So we will have basically four of five segments positive in Q3, with Energy actually very strong in that context.

Then if you think about the big levers we have got, we've got value gap, Terry. I think value gap is positive and will remain positive going into '13.

You've got service margins. Service margins continue to be positive both this year and next.

We've got simplification. You have seen what our goals are in simplification, and we are going to continue to work at the GE footprint.

And then you've got product costs. I have got a ton of projects going around the Company to get our product costs down.

So I think on the macro side, we prepared ourselves for a pretty tough year this year, or certainly a volatile year. We haven't been disappointed. We have seen that volatility play through particularly in Europe. And we are going to be equally prepared when we you think about '13.

So I would see margin expansion this year between 30 and 50 basis points. And then next year, I think that will make up for the total of 100. So between let's say 50 to 70 basis points next year.

And then you're going to have between, let's say, '13 and '11 you're going to have at least 100 basis points of expansion over that time period. I actually see that turning the corner and I think third quarter is going to be pretty good.

KEITH SHERIN: The close in the second quarter, and if you look at the margin performance in Energy and the margin performance across the portfolio, down 20 basis points versus the first quarter down more than that, down 50, I feel really good about the progress we're making.

And we turned the value gap positive. As Jeff said, R&D as a percent of revenue has gone into a positive. Total cost productivity is positive.

And the only issue we are wrestling with is the service equipment mix here in the second quarter. That is a good news problem for us.

So we have made a lot of progress on it, and then the cost-out I think is the adder that you're going to see us really kick in as we get into '13.

TERRY DARLING: So confidence in the margins, despite the softer macro out there. More Company-determined factors in the mix here, I guess; and obviously that is quite positive.

In terms of the macro impact on your thinking on orders over the balance of the year, has that softened up a little bit presumably? Or is there more Company-determined self-directed share gains and so forth there?

I think at one point you had been thinking double digits. We're 8% through the first half. How are you thinking about that?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, you know, Terry, I think our orders -- we basically have said that our organic revenue target is up 5% to 10%. Our orders growth basically supports that.

I would expect our orders to continue to grow for the year. I think FX-adjusted in the high single digits or in that range as the year goes on.

But we built an incredible backlog over the last period of time. So we've got a big equipment and service backlog, and so we have run positive book-to-bill ratios for a long time. So I think some of that has to be factored in as well in terms of when you look at new orders.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then just lastly to clean up on WMC, I guess two parts. One, the statute of limitations comment, Keith; you're thinking end of this year is statute of limitations on, what, the '06 vintages? So that is why this doesn't look like it has a long tail?

Then did I hear the reserve really didn't change a whole lot even though the claims went up dramatically? Maybe I missed something there, but can you explain that?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. The statute of limitations -- I'm not giving any legal advice, but the limit that we are seeing that people are reacting to is six years. So you're right in terms of the timing. By the end of this year, that gets down to very small numbers of mortgages that are out there past that period. And that, it seems to be what drove the spike in the claims that happened in the quarter.

Our reserve did increase dramatically. It went from $140 million at the end of first quarter to $491 million at the end of the second quarter, Terry.

TERRY DARLING: But the $491 million relative to -- what were the claims in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we had -- the claims balance was $562 million at the end of first quarter. It went to 2.7.

I think the thing that you can't see in that, our reserve balances anticipate future claims -- Incurred But Not Reported, it is called. So at the end of the first quarter, the balance of reserve relative to $562 million had some future claims estimates in there.

At the end of the second quarter we have increased that estimate of future claims. It is not quite -- it is less than 100% of the known claims balance, but it is a significant number.

TERRY DARLING: So do we just on disc ops -- EPS from disc ops or loss from disc ops for the balance of the year, presumably that number goes a little higher as we move into the back part of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we think we have reserved appropriately. I think the problem is that you just have to watch these long-tail liabilities.

We have an anticipate -- we anticipate a significant additional amount of claims in WMC. We will have to see how we do against that. And in Grey Zone, we need to see those claims decline as we go through the second half of the year. Right now, we believe we are appropriately reserved.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Morning, guys. Hey, so, Keith, maybe could you walk through maybe the big components of the $555 million year-over-year increase in real estate?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look at the variance on earnings -- let me get the right numbers for you. Lower marks and impairments, so we had $7 million of credit costs. And on a variance item versus last year, that is a couple hundred million dollars of benefit, $256 million on marks and impairments.

We also had -- last year we had Real Estate losses that were not tax effected. So that was something that increased probably the one-time benefits in there a little over $100 million in the quarter for Real Estate.

And, the base income is better from the core business on earnings on both the debt and the equity portfolio. I mean at the end of the day, when you look at it, what really has happened is when you go -- do you look -- global valuations, we did not have declines in valuations on the debt or the equity book; and that just changes the profile of our earnings in Real Estate.

And then you earned a little bit by selling some properties and having some gains.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: So I mean relative to this, you said the tax rate didn't run through that? I mean the tax (multiple speakers) ?

KEITH SHERIN: No, the sale of BP is not in here; but last year we had losses that were not tax effected. And as a result, this year by having none of that you have an improvement year-over-year in taxes (multiple speakers).

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, but sequentially moving forward it doesn't sound like there is anything that unusual in this 220 number?

KEITH SHERIN: I think you're plus or minus $50 million, $70 million on a run rate from taxes. Other than that I think if we don't have any valuation changes, and you continue to see the market where we are, we feel pretty good about the outlook for the business.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Then just on the pricing in Energy, so you know -- the gas and wind turbines down on units, but the pricing up. I mean last year the pricing was down a bunch in those segments, particularly in 2Q. Was there -- was some of this easy comp, or was it mix? Or does that all feel real to you?

KEITH SHERIN: Help me out with what you are on. Are you on orders or sales?

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: I'm on orders. So I think you said up 5 last year. There were some significant order pricing declines (multiple speakers) orders.

KEITH SHERIN: Oh, absolutely.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Shannon, I think there is always some mix pulling through this. And I am not sure that it's going to be up 5 forever.

But I do think we have seen it firming in commitments. We have seen that starting to flow through. And I think we expect a decent pricing environment going forward.

KEITH SHERIN: I mean you can see it swinging, right? As you said last year Q1, Q2, Q3, down 6, down 10, down 7 on thermal. Q1, Q4, down 12. Q1 was down 1; Q2 was up 5.

You know, our estimate for the year right now is it should be somewhere around flat. But it has definitely changed the dynamics of supply and demand here on pricing for us.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Just a last clarification for me. You offset the lower tax rate in the quarter with restructuring. GE Capital now is going to be lower for the whole year. Are you going to ramp restructuring to offset the incremental benefit, or how is that going to work?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it is in the GE Capital run rate now; you're somewhere in the mid-single digits. So the disconnect in the quarter was the Capital benefits of tax were in GE Capital, and the restructuring was mostly in Corporate.

But right now it will be in the Capital run rate at somewhere in the mid-single digits.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: So for the second half, we now have a lower Capital tax rate than we assumed before. Are you going to offset that 5% difference with some more restructuring? Or is it just going to flow through?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have it planned that way. We are looking at restructuring associated with the cost-out, and we are evaluating what we can do to continue to accelerate the actions to simplify the Company and improve our margins. So there are activities we're working on, but we don't have it planned that way, Shannon.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. For GE Capital and specifically commercial lending, can you comment on net interest margin on new business being written versus business that is rolling off?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have that number, Deane. I will have to have Trevor get back to you with it.

JEFF IMMELT: But I think the net interest margin is very positive. Like most of the metrics, Deane, around margins are improving. But I think we can get you --

KEITH SHERIN: For CLL (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, we can get you what the flow-through is.

DEANE DRAY: Do you have it broadly for Capital? Because that had been a data point in the recovery that we saw significantly better net interest margin (multiple speakers).

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's up 50 basis points year-over-year.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think NIM captures some of that I think, Deane.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure.

DEANE DRAY: Okay. Then on the Tier 1 common, just to make sure I have the math right. With the resumption of the dividend, that does put some pressure on Tier 1, maybe by 20 basis points or so. But can you calibrate the impact there?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the earnings more than offset it in the capital ratios. If you look in the supplemental charts that we sent out, there is a breakdown of the impact on the Tier 1 ratios from earnings growth, foreign exchange, and dividends.

DEANE DRAY: Then lastly, Keith, can you comment on how the tax benefits should help provide some ability to take down GE Capital assets faster? Would that be towards the red assets? And is that still about $80 billion in expectations for the balance of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the example we're using here is Business Properties. We had an opportunity. We have a negotiated transaction to sell $5 billion of Real Estate assets.

The fact that there is a tax benefit associated with the structuring enables us to remove $5 billion of assets that are earning around $50 million. So it is just a one-time transaction and it's an example; but I mean for us, shrinking $5 billion of Real Estate is a good move strategically for the GE Capital business.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Deane, if you think back over the last three years we have beat every commitment on the size of GE Capital. And one of the things I said at EPG is that I think we are all aligned behind it, to continue to make GE Capital smaller and more focused. We are going to continue to do that, and I think BP is a good transaction for us.

KEITH SHERIN: The red ending net investment is about $75 billion. It is down 17% year-over-year, and the BP transaction is a good example of the team continuing to do a good job of running these assets down.

If you look at the supplementals you can see the dividend was 60 basis points on the Tier 1. The earnings added 30 basis points. And that is pretty much why we went from 10.1% to 10.4% from Q1 to Q2.

And even with that, though, if you look year-over-year, we are at 10.1%, a full point up -- even with the dividend -- on Tier 1 common.

In addition when you look at total capital, the preferred stock that we issued enabled us to build our non-common Tier 1 capital and still enabled us to pay a dividend of $3 billion to the parent to keep the capital ratios above what we think we need to have.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Hey, so first question on the order growth rates. How much -- to what extent did acquisitions contribute at all to that number? What would it have been organically?

KEITH SHERIN: Total it is about 2 points.

STEVEN WINOKER: 2 points?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. Most of the acquisitions now as you get through the second quarter are all in the run rate.

JEFF IMMELT: It was -- and FX was what? About --?

KEITH SHERIN: 2 points.

JEFF IMMELT: 2? So about 2.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: So it was kind of flattish.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then on the GE Capital reserving front, I think that was page 9 in the supplemental. You talk about the environment continuing to improve; reserves coming down to 1.86% now from I guess 2.26% in the second quarter of '11.

KEITH SHERIN: Right.

STEVEN WINOKER: Just give us a sense maybe on the environmental side. You know, I mean obviously a lot of this is driven by the US and by your activity that you are seeing. But at the same time we are seeing so much uncertainty and volatility globally, and with what is going on in Europe.

You guys have a fair bit of assets over there, so how are you thinking about this? Being able to take reserves down relative to (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: No, the reserves aren't being taken down. The write-offs are in excess of the reserves. We had about $100 million of impact on the balances of reserves from FX.

But we are -- if you look at the numbers by business, the delinquencies are down in every single set of our operations except for the mortgage, which is up seasonally. Non-earnings are down in every single one of our businesses. Our write-offs are down in every single one of our businesses. Quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year for all three of those metrics.

So we continue to have a portfolio that shows improvements in its performance. And I think you are getting to run rate levels of new provisions on new business.

The only thing that will change that will be the mix between retail, which obviously has higher reserve levels than the commercial, which has lower reserve levels.

STEVEN WINOKER: But are you seeing -- the question is in terms of the progression through the quarter maybe, or any kind of risks as you look out, where you feel like that provision rates is in any way at risk as we head into what is potentially a more difficult macro environment?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we have been in that environment for quite some time in Europe. I think the team has had to take a lot of operating actions, right?

We have been very prudent from a risk perspective on increasing our underwriting standards. We have lowered our open lines on credits that were less creditworthy. In Europe, I mean, it is a full-court press from the risk team about reducing our exposures in places where we don't want to have them.

We had to add reserves and take some provisions in Italy. I think that is a tough place.

A previous quarter we had some in Hungary, but that stabilized. That was really a legislative change on mortgages.

We are watching the Spain consumer business. That is obviously a tough place.

But things like the UK continue to perform. The non-earnings are down, delinquencies are down. Delinquencies are up a little bit seasonally, but not any -- they are less than what normally we would have.

And the main drivers as we shrink that book, the non-earning assets and the delinquencies are a higher percent. It is not that they are going up in terms of dollars.

So I think the risk team has done a really good job in cooperation with the operating team. But right now we are at sort of run rate levels. If we have specific things that happen, we will reserve more.

The biggest change you are seeing across this portfolio was obviously the improvement of Real Estate values globally, both debt and the equity book in the quarter. From a valuation perspective on the work that we did on the assets that were covered, had increases in the valuations. That is the first time in years versus pressure we've had in the equity and the debt book for almost four years here, Steve.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, that's helpful. Then just maybe a last comment on China. What are you guys seeing a little more broadly in terms of demand over there and that trend, given the --?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Steve, we're in a little bit of a different sequence because we are more long-cycle-oriented stuff. So I think the revenue was up 20% plus in the quarter. Orders slightly below that, but still pretty strong.

And Healthcare is very strong. There is a conversion between coal and gas in the power sector. There is the -- Aviation remains pretty strong.

So we are on more -- we're not on the short-cycle side. We are more long-cycle driven in China, and we still see a decent environment for (multiple speakers).

KEITH SHERIN: Just give you some numbers. The revenue was 1.4; it was up 24%, as Jeff said. If you look at the Energy it's up 34%; Aviation was up 26% in the quarter; Healthcare was up 24%.

The orders are a little slower. They are up 6, but there are also -- a lot of -- some of the backlog is what we have there. So this is a pretty good performance. We expect a very strong performance across the year for China.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, firstly on Energy, it is a fairly odd disconnect where your service orders are down and the pricing on the equipment is up. Is there some risk, I guess, that you had a big catch-up on service spares, and that has now run out of steam? Because I guess the improving fundamentals behind equipment orders and therefore pricing you would think should reflect in service as well.

KEITH SHERIN: I don't think there is any risk of that. I think what we saw in the business in the quarter from an orders perspective were that the customers are running their gas turbines as a result of the low natural gas pricing. If you look at the revenue in Energy in services it was pretty solid in the quarter.

So our team has a positive outlook as a result of the current operating environment. And for us it is a question of when does it come through.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks. Then on the Healthcare, I guess that was the business that had pricing down. How worried are you about the ability to drive earnings up year-on-year in the second half? I understand that the Latin American mis-execution normalizes; but pricing is running at what? Minus 1.5 (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Julian, pricing is about -- that is just kind of the nature of the business because a little bit is on the -- you're a little bit on the computing learning curve. So that has been kind of the nature.

The CM rates are still pretty strong, and I think in some ways it's a little bit of apples and oranges. So I think we see a US Healthcare market that is kind of flat, maybe up a couple points. As Keith said, Europe is very tough, but the emerging markets in Healthcare are pretty dynamic.

So I think at EPG we said Healthcare would be 1-plus to 2-pluses, so up single to double. We still think Healthcare is going to have a good, solid second half of the year.

KEITH SHERIN: You know, the orders if you look at the book-to-bill in the quarter were 1.11. At the half, it is 1.08.

They built a little bit of backlog. They need to execute. That is what we're looking for in the second half here, Julian.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks. Then just finally, the Industrial CFOA was down year-on-year on Q2. Is that just around working capital relating to Wind orders, or --?

KEITH SHERIN: It was really two things. We had about $200 million of pension funding; we haven't had that before. We expect that to be about $400 million for the year.

But as you know, in the K we put out it was going to be $1 billion for the year. So $600 million better for the year than we said.

And then we just built inventory. We built $1-billion-plus of inventory in the Energy business, and as you said it is mostly related to the Wind.

In the second half here we are going to deliver close to 1,800 to 2,000 Wind units, almost the full amount of volume we had for all of last year. So we've got a good outlook here in the second half in Energy, and Wind is going to be a big part of it.

JEFF IMMELT: Let me just go back to what Keith said on pension just to make sure you guys understand it. So originally I think our funding for this year was going to be $1 billion.

KEITH SHERIN: $1 billion, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: Now it is $400 million, so that is $600 million better. And I think we put in the K for next year --

KEITH SHERIN: $2.1 billion.

JEFF IMMELT: We put $2.1 billion.

KEITH SHERIN: Could be $200 million.

JEFF IMMELT: Now we think that is going to be --

KEITH SHERIN: $100 million.

JEFF IMMELT: -- extremely small. Maybe less than $100 million. So that's a big benefit in cash over the next two years that investors should understand.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So, regarding the discontinued operations charges, WMC and GE Money Japan, are there other divested finance assets where there is still recourse or retained liability that have the risk of popping up like this? Or are these really the two big ones that are out there?

KEITH SHERIN: These are the two.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. On Wind, obviously it is challenging today. It's a cyclical market, and the production tax credit expiring.

But how do you feel about that business longer term, given changing economics with low gas prices and a fairly crowded competitive environment in Wind?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, we said that the next year we anticipate $0.03 down versus this year in Wind. So we are kind of getting ready for that.

The industry is reforming outside the United States right now. So we have got some big orders in places like Brazil and Canada and Australia, Turkey, places like that.

We have navigated the cycles as well as anybody. I think we probably make as much money as the rest of the industry combined or something like that. And we have a pretty good window on the future, so we haven't --

KEITH SHERIN: Return on capital is almost infinite here.

JEFF IMMELT: We haven't over-invested, we've got a very flexible supply chain, and so I think we are just going to ride the wave. But we do think that it's $0.03 headwind next year, and we are already taking actions to be able to offset that.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. Then lastly, you mentioned the potential $5 million of Real Estate divestitures. There was the EverBank deal a couple of weeks ago.

Has the environment for potential asset sales improved materially recently? Or is it just now is the right time and you've had unique opportunities and are simply taking advantage of what is out there?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, it's a steady improvement. You have seen us talk about the valuation changes in Real Estate quarter-to-quarter-to-quarter, and this is just another sign that the market is getting better. We were able to move $5 billion of Real Estate assets at a gain to the Company in total. And the team is going to continue to work on that.

So I think yes, valuations have continued to improve. Liquidity is coming into the marketplace. If you've got a good property with a decent lease you can extract a good price in this low interest rate environment.

Stabilization of valuations in Europe -- the valuation in Europe was better than we anticipated as we closed the first quarter. And we expect that to continue.

JASON FELDMAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. Question on the different margin factors in the back half of the year. Year-over-year and versus the one half. We are looking at volume leverage, better price flowing through, and the anniversary of the acquisitions. Can you gauge what are the relative imports there?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think Jeff said it. Value gap is going to be positive. That is the difference between the pricing we are getting and the raw material inflation that we experience, or deflation. That is positive 100 in the second quarter. We expect that to continue.

R&D as a percent of revenue we have talked about that a lot. We have peaked as a percent of revenue. We still are at a very high level in terms of percent of revenue, but it's peaked in terms of the impact on margin.

Our total cost productivity, which is our ability to continue to deliver new volume and take advantage of leverage, was positive 0.4 in the second quarter. We expect that to continue.

And the one dynamic that we are working our way through is the equipment and service margin mix. And as Jeff said, we expect margins to go positive in the third quarter, and will be positive in the fourth quarter. To get to the 30 basis points we need an average of about 80 basis points in the second half, and that is what our teams are working on right now.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay. Then on the turbine Flex launch in the second half, how are you viewing that now? Is that impacting current demand? And how do you view the lag to regaining some share and competitive parity?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Chris, I think the Flex launch is going well. We've had some great wins in Japan in the second quarter that were fantastic.

And I still think our gas turbine share is going to be somewhere between 40% and 45%. So we want to retain historical averages for that, and we will continue to invest in new NPI in the gas turbine product line as well.

So, again I think this is really important for us and Flex has gone well. And I think you will continue to see strong NPI efforts from GE.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, guys. Hey, I guess I really don't understand your pension funding strategy. I mean I understand the obligation has gone down under this law change.

But your annual benefits payable, like $3 billion a year, other companies have remarked -- yes, the law has changed but we don't want to let ourselves get further behind. Just kind of surprised, the posture you are taking there.

What -- how do you see pensions playing out then as we look further beyond 2013?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we have taken a lot of actions here. I think the most important action that we took was we closed the plan to new employees, Jeff. You may not be aware of that, but as a result of that action the change in the future liability is dramatically -- the curve has dramatically changed. It is a huge amount of pressure we have taken off that pension plan in terms of the earnings rate that has to be realized over time.

I think the benefit payments are less than what you talked about. I don't have the exact number, but it is not as high as what you said.

And our team is working on a risk-reduction strategy. We are not going to full risk-reduction in terms of going 100% to risk off and bonds; but we are reducing our risk-seeking exposures as we become additionally more funded from an ERISA gap perspective.

So the team has got a good asset allocation plan. They've got a good track record on returns. We have cut the future tail of this liability by closing the plan to new employees.

You know, we were going to fund $1 billion this year, we were going to fund $2 billion next year. Our anticipation, we will be fully funded in a couple years.

This change in ERISA funding doesn't really change our outlook much on what we think we are going to do in terms of how we get to fully funded in that pension plan. And we are not seeking additional risk to do it.

JEFF SPRAGUE: All right. I was just looking at the annual report that says $3 billion in 2012 and actually shows it going up the next four or five years, not down, but --

KEITH SHERIN: I don't think that is $3 billion. That includes all our healthcare costs, that includes retiree and employee healthcare costs. It is about $1 billion on pension, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. It says principal pension plan.

Just on GECAS, obviously all the NEOs and everything were so new last year that there was no impact, and obviously you're going to roll up your sleeves in Q3. But you obviously gave us a heads up to be on alert for this. Is there some early thoughts on what we should expect?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have any signal from the team of anything unusual. We continue to reduce our exposure to older assets, as you know. And we have taken some impairments quarter by quarter by quarter on some of the older assets that are less fuel-efficient.

Our fleet is in pretty good shape in terms of that, the percent of older assets. And I don't anticipate anything abnormal here in the third quarter, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. Just wanted to turn attention to Energy margins in 2013. I think everyone knows that Wind is going to take a bit of a step down in 2013. How confident are you that you can maintain margin or even grow margin with, let's say, $2 [million] less volume?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, just on a Wind basis alone, if you remove the Wind business at the margin you're going to have a margin increase.

JEFF IMMELT: That's cheating. But that's --

KEITH SHERIN: Well, that's reality. I mean we're getting penalized for this year, Jeff, but we're not going to have it next year.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, let's step through it. Let's (multiple speakers) again. Value gap positive; so you're going to have pricing ahead of deflation. We see pretty good headwind on that.

I think we're going to have a good services mix next year. I think we like the way services could line up for next year.

Structural costs down. Again you're talking about -- you know, guys, I would reiterate; we have said we're going to take $2 billion of costs out in '12, '13, and '14. And we are on our way to doing that.

That is going to take -- G&A as a percentage of revenue is going to go down a couple hundred basis points around this place. So you're going to get some structural cost out.

So you're going to have good value gap, you're going to have positive mix, you're going to pretty good service, and you're going to have structural cost down. I think that is a pretty good line-up.

NIGEL COE: Right, but looking at Wind in itself. I know it's a highly variable cost business. If we go down from, say, 7 to, say, 5, what happens to Wind margins next year?

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, I would bet that Wind -- just intra-Wind, right, Nigel? That's what you're asking?

NIGEL COE: Exactly, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, Wind margins will probably go down a little bit. But it's really a de-verticalized business, and so I think it's not going to be what you'd think. But just because of the volume we have this year, my hunch is that the margin rate just intra-Wind will probably go down slightly.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and then moving to the broader Energy business, the move back to positive pricing on orders is great news. Can you just remind us, what is the lead time on pricing in the order book? When do we start to see that coming through the P&L?

JEFF IMMELT: Next 12 to 18 months.

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers) 18 months, yes. By product line.

NIGEL COE: So 1Q '13? And then, stripping out Energy management, so that is a $6 billion BU, I think; will be a smaller segment by far. Is the intention to grow that?

If were thinking about the sources of acquisition funding going forward, should we view Energy management is up there, top one or top two?

JEFF IMMELT: I think there are segments within Energy management, Nigel, that we like, that we might do some of the smaller acquisitions in. I think the key thing is again to give investors kind of a pure-play on the power generation side, a pure play on the Oil & Gas side, and a pure-play on the Energy management side.

I think that is what many people have been asking for, and that is what you are going to get in the structure.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Then just finally, I don't want to get too deep in the weeds of Corporate expenses. But it's a tough line to model, and it seems to be running above the $3 billion ex-pension guidance for fiscal '12.

Are we still running towards that, Keith? Or should we expect that to come down in the second half of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Say that again?

JEFF IMMELT: The $3 billion Corporate; and we still running to the $3 billion Corporate for the year? (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, $3 billion Corporate for the year, yes. You're about $1.5 billion at the half, and there are some ups and downs on one-timers, but that is the estimate for the year, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

NIGEL COE: Got it. Thanks a lot.

KEITH SHERIN: I just want to -- the pension out of the Trust is about $3 billion. I'm sorry, Jeff, you - Jeff Sprague. Sorry about that.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Chanel, we're a little over our hour. Why don't we take one more question and then close out?

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA: Hey, sorry, I just had a follow-up. So on the Energy services, decline in orders -- what you are saying is they are running their plants so you are not seeing the normal pace of orders. I guess that would suggest that I mean at some time they have got to service these things if they are running them for longer hours. So is that actually -- that's actually a push-out (multiple speakers) business ?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think, Steve, like the flow orders that would tend to happen in shutdowns and stuff like that are slower, because the guys are running the plants. So I think that's --

STEVE TUSA: But that has got to come at some point, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Good news. Again, with cheap gas prices everything we have thought about this is true. Guys are running their plants hard, and they are pushing out service and stuff like that. And I think that will come back at some point.

STEVE TUSA: Right, right. Okay. I just wanted to clarify that. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: No further questions at this time. Mr. Schauenberg, do you have any additional remarks?

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Yes. Thank you, everyone. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We are distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital as we always do today.

Just a couple, few announcements here regarding investor events. Jeff Immelt will be hosting a GE Infrastructure Investor Meeting which will include all of our Infrastructure business leaders. The meeting will be held on Thursday, September 27 in the New York City area. More details regarding the event will be sent in the upcoming weeks. We hope everyone can make it.

Finally, our third-quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be on Friday, October 19. As always, we will be available to take your questions today. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120803e87k00012
  


 HD
 Q1  2012  General Electric  Co. Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,228 words
   PD
20 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2012 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Chanel and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investment Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter 2012 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for the webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are available for download and printing on our website, www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of the presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would now like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Good morning, everybody. Thanks. This year we outlined two important catalysts for GE, double-digit earnings growth for Industrial and a dividend from GE capital, pending Fed review. In the first quarter, our Industrial businesses achieved a 10% earnings growth and GE Capital is exceeding our expectations, so we really had a good quarter.

Externally global markets are improving but volatility remains. Infrastructure demand is generally healthy and the US is better. We're watching Europe with caution. We had the strongest Industrial growth performance since the crisis, 20% orders growth, 11% organic revenue growth, and 16% expansion in growth markets. GE Capital grew by 27% excluding the impact of the Garanti gain.

Real estate turned positive in the quarter, which is a positive sign for the year, and we ended the quarter with lots of cash and strong cash flow. Our Tier 1 common ratio is 10.4%, a very healthy level, and we remain on track to hit our margin targets for the year. So everything we saw in the first quarter supports double-digit earnings growth.

Orders were robust off a very high base. Orders growth was broad-based. Equipment was up 29%, service was up 11%. Emerging markets grew by 24% and organic orders growth was up 14%.

We're benefiting from several macro themes -- global infrastructure investment, healthcare access, gas conversion, and favorable transportation in energy markets. Over the last two years, we redeployed capital from NBC to Oil and Gas. This is paying off with a 64% growth in Oil and Gas orders.

Orders pricing was positive, which is a great sign for the future. This is the highest first-quarter orders in history. It feels like we are outpacing the market and gaining share, and backlog ended at $201 billion, another record.

As I said, organic revenue growth was up 11% in the quarter, very strong. We had four or five businesses in six of nine growth regions with 10% plus organic growth. China grew by 18% on track with our expectations. Service growth was 11%, which is up 8% organically, and we are doing well in the marketplace.

Aviation is winning a lot of campaigns. The GEnx is doing very well. The LEAP-X with applications on the A320 NEO, 737 MAX, and C919 is also doing great. The Qantas win is big for our Aviation business.

We are launching 71 new products in Healthcare versus 50 last year. Our Energy product line is strong, supporting 39% orders growth. We're launching new products in our acquisitions, which on balance are outperforming their plans.

Appliances is beginning to launch its Mission 1 product in 2Q with a new water heater and refrigerator. Our investments in growth are really paying off.

We have always expected margins to ramp during the year. Healthcare and Transportation have already begun to turn. In the first quarter of '12, we had the negative impact of energy backlog pricing, acquisitions, and wind volume that moved from the second quarter to the first quarter. However, we see improvements in value gap acquisitions and easing R&D spending as the year progresses and we will continue to drive productivity and restructuring programs particularly in Europe.

Over the past five years, we have seen as much as a 200 basis point margin improvement from the first quarter to the total year so we see 50 basis points improvement as an important commitment for 2012 and 2013.

Cash from liquidity remained very strong. Our CFOA grew by 22% in the quarter behind improved earnings and working capital performance. We end the quarter with $84 billion of cash on the balance sheet. We are managing this CFOA growth despite having strong equipment shipments and we expect CFOA to be strong for the year.

Last thing on GE Capital. GE Capital had a very good quarter. Our balance sheet is strong. We have a 10.4% Tier 1 common ratio, up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter '11 and our non earnings are down $300 million. Our liquidity is safe and sound. Our commercial paper coverage is 2.5 times and we have $76 billion of cash on the GE Capital balance sheet. We are on track for our ENI goals. We should hit our $425 billion ENI target for 2012.

We're reducing red assets like the Irish mortgages and commercial real estate profitability in the quarter is really quite significant. Finally, we are able to originate profitable new business. We feel great about expanding our net interest margins. We are originating new business in excess of a 3% return on investment and our ongoing net income growing by 27% is a good sign. The business is executing well.

Now over to Keith for an update on financials.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with the first-quarter summary. As you can see, we had continuing operations revenues of $35.2 billion and that was reported down 8%. This is the last quarter we're going to have to compare to the impact from NBCU. So last year in the first quarter we owned NBCU for one month and we had that revenue and we had the $3.6 billion pretax gain from the sale. So if you adjust for NBC in the first quarter of last year, that would give you a 4% growth on the $35 billion of revenue.

Industrial sales of $23.7 million are up 7%. I think a better reflection of our growth is down on the right side of the chart. Without any impact from NBCU, you can see the Industrial segment revenues were up 14%.

GE Capital revenues of $11.4 billion were down 12%. If you look at Q1 last year, we had the Garanti Bank sale that was recorded in GE Capital. If you exclude the impact of Garanti last year, GE Capital revenues were down about 7% in line with the overall asset shrinkage.

Operating earnings of $3.6 billion were up 1%. Operating earnings per share of $0.34 were up 3% and continuing earnings per share includes the impact of a non-operating pension and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations, reflecting the $0.02 charge this year, which I will cover on the next page.

Cash at $2.1 billion for the quarter was very strong, as Jeff covered. On taxes, the consolidated rate for the first quarter was 16%. That was down slightly from 2011 excluding the impact of the high taxed NBCU gain.

If you look at the pieces, the GE rate of 23% was 1 point higher than last year excluding the NBCU impact and we are forecasting a continuation of that low 20s rate for the rest of year for GE Industrial. The GE Capital rate of 9% is lower than the midteens range that we previously forecast. As the quarter unfolded, we identified additional international tax planning benefits and they're going to impact the GE Capital rate for the year. So right now our forecast is about a 10% rate for the full year for GECC.

On the right side of the segment results, Industrial revenues were up 14%. Industrial segment profit was up 10% driven by double-digit growth in Transportation and Energy and Healthcare. GE Capital earnings were reported at flat. However, they were up significantly excluding the impact of last year's Garanti gain and I'll show you how that affects GE Capital later on the GE Capital page.

So we'll go through each of the segments in more detail on a few -- page here. Before I get to the business results though, here's the summary of other items from the first quarter.

First, we realized a $0.01 after-tax gain from the formation of an Aviation JV, which we recorded that gain at corporate. We completed the JV formation with AVIC for future avionic products, and that resulted in $0.01 after tax.

We also had $0.01 after tax of restructuring and other charges in the quarter. The charge is primarily related to continued cost structure improvements at Energy, Healthcare, GE Capital. We also had one-time costs related to the acquisitions and other non-repeat items.

On the bottom of the page, we entered into an LOI to sell our Irish consumer mortgage assets and the operating platform in Ireland and as a result of that LOI, we recognized a charge this quarter. This is consistent with our strategy of reducing the red assets in the portfolio and although the final terms have not been negotiated and certainly not announced, we did recognize a loss in discontinued operations of $188 million after tax and this allows us to exit the most challenged mortgage book that we have, and that is going to be positive as we go forward.

Then one last item on this page. We thought just to try and clarify the reported results year-over-year, on the top right on the normalized earnings box, it shows you a walk of how we looked at normalized operating EPS adjusting for the gains and the one-time charges last year and this year. So if you look last year, our reported operating EPS was $0.33 but that included $0.01 net benefit from the combination of the NBCU gain which was partially offset by $0.03 of restructuring. Plus we had $0.03 from the Garanti sale gain last year that was reported in GE Capital.

So if you look at last year's first quarter normalized, it was $0.29 and this year we reported $0.34 with no net impact from the other items, so the normalized operating earnings performance is much stronger than the reported variance.

I will go to the businesses and start with Energy. Overall results were strong. We had revenue growth of 18%. We had double-digit profit growth and I will start with the details of the Energy business.

We continue to see strong orders growth, as Jeff showed you. Orders of $7.7 billion were up 21%. Equipment orders of $4.1 billion were up 29%. That was driven some by the acquisitions plus 12 points from organic growth. Renewable orders of $1.5 billion were up 59%. We had orders for 696 wind turbines versus 327 in the first quarter of last year.

Thermal orders of $700 million were down 7%. We had orders for 23 gas turbines versus 27 in the first quarter of '11. And overall, Energy orders pricing was a positive 0.2. Equipment orders pricing was down 0.2 and that was driven by thermal which was negative 1%, wind was negative 1.5% offset by positive equipment pricing and energy management.

If you look at the combined thermal and PowerGen service orders, the price impact there was also positive 0.7. So orders pricing is definitely abating and it turned in total for the Energy business.

Service orders of $3.6 billion were up 13% and revenues in the quarter of $8 billion were up 13%. That was driven by strong volume plus we had about 5 points of that growth from acquisitions, so good organic growth.

Equipment revenues of $4.5 billion were up 16%. We had a strong renewables quarter; revenues of $1.5 billion were up 30%. We shipped 611 wind turbines versus 366 last year and that was about 200 more than we planned in the quarter.

Thermal revenue at $1.8 billion was up 2%. We shipped 35 gas turbines versus 32 last year and aero revenue of $560 million was up 68% and service revenues of $3.5 billion were up 10%.

Segment profit of $1.2 billion was up 6%. That was driven by the higher volumes plus some benefit from the acquisitions partially offset by the lower pricing from the wind and thermal backlog deliveries.

Oil & Gas, they just continue to experience tremendous growth. Orders of $4.4 billion were up 47%. Even after adjusting for the acquisitions, orders were up 28% organically. Equipment orders of $2.3 billion were up 64% driven by strong subsea orders in Australia and Angola and service orders of $2 billion were up 31% driven by drilling and surface services.

The orders price index for Oil & Gas was up 1%. Revenue of $3.4 billion was up 34% and that was driven by strong equipment revenues, $1.6 billion, was up 26% or 16% organically. And service revenues of $1.8 billion were up 41% or 20% organically.

Segment profit of $400 million was up 31% driven by the acquisitions and the core growth. The acquisitions continued to deliver results ahead of our pro formas and the organic segment profit of Oil & Gas was up 12% driven by the strong volume partially offset by higher variable costs on some of their output. So a pretty good quarter overall in Energy. Great to have them at double digits.

Next we will go to Aviation. The Aviation team delivered another solid quarter in the first quarter. We took the JV gain out of the segment so the reported results exclude the gain that was reported in corporate. Orders of $5.6 billion were up 8%. Commercial engine orders of $1.6 billion were up 36%, driven by strong orders for GE-90, CFM 56, and CF-6 engines.

Military equipment orders of $500 million, they were down 20% driven by a few lower engines but also lower development from the JSF termination.

Service orders of $3 billion were up 6%. Commercial services were down 3% driven by lower spare parts. Our first-quarter average daily order rate was $23 million, which was down 10% as we saw some softness driven by Europe.

Total orders price index for the business was up 2.1%. Revenue of $4.9 billion was up 12% driven by strong equipment volume. We shipped 583 commercial engines versus 503 last year, up 16%. And service revenues were up 3%.

Segment profit of $862 million was up 2% as the benefits of that higher volume and positive price were partially offset by higher R&D investments and the impact of higher equipment versus services mix.

On the right side, Transportation, Transportation had another great quarter. Orders of $1.6 billion were up 67%. Equipment orders of $1 billion were up 131%, driven by North American and international locomotive orders. We also saw strong mining vehicle equipment orders. Service orders were up 13% and orders pricing was up 1%.

Revenue of $1.3 billion was up 41%, driven by the strong volume. We shipped 159 locomotives versus 70 in the first quarter last year and our mining equipment revenue was also up 40% in the quarter.

Service revenues of $550 million were up 7%, driven by the higher long-term service agreement and parts volume and segment profit of $232 million was up 48% driven by the higher volume and positive pricing.

Next is Healthcare. Healthcare had a strong first quarter, good orders, orders of $4.4 billion were up 6%. I will give you some details on the equipment orders. $2.4 billion, they were up 12%. It was driven by strong growth across the board. The US was up 15% on Equipment. Latin America was up 33%. China was up 31%. Eastern Europe and the Middle East were up 22%. Asia-Pacific was up 11% and Europe was the one soft spot, down 6%.

Service orders of $2 billion were flat and total orders price was down 1.4%. Revenue in quarter of $4.3 billion was up 5% driven by the growth markets which were up 17% in volume and revenue in the US was up 3% and in Europe, it was down 4%. Segment profit of $585 million was up 10% driven by volume and productivity, partially offset by the pricing.

On the right side, home and business solutions had another tough quarter but the level of decline has slowed significantly. Revenues of $2.1 billion were up 5%, driven by strong pricing. The domestic appliance market was down 10% in units and we gained core share. We also saw volume pressure from lighting in Europe; European markets were soft. Overall segment profit of $66 million was down 11% as the benefits of the higher pricing in appliances and lighting were more than offset by inflation and by our investments in the new product programs. We started shipping the hot water heater and will be shipping the bottom-mount refrigerator starting in the second quarter so they are making great progress on all their Mission 1 investments.

Next is GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team delivered another very positive quarter. Revenue of $11.4 billion was reported, down 12%; however as I said, if you exclude the Garanti impact, revenue was down 7%. Reported net income was flat but as you can see excluding Garanti, it was up 27%. So overall, it was another very strong quarter.

We ended the quarter with $436 billion of ending investment, already below our original $440 billion target and we are on the way to the [$425 billion] for the year and our net interest margin was 4.8%, up 38 basis points. There are more details on GE Capital and margins and asset quality in the supplemental deck that we posted this morning.

If you look over the right side you can see the asset quality metrics continue to be good. Delinquencies fell in the mortgage business. They fell in US retail. They were up slightly in Real Estate and CLL. A big highlight for the team was the commercial real estate delivering positive earnings. This is the first time in over three years and I will cover real estate in a minute.

We saw good volume at good margins and our other asset quality metrics remain strong.

So if you go by business, I will start with Consumer. Our consumer results were much better than the reported variance shows. We are comparing here to no repeat of the first-quarter '11 Garanti income. On a normalized basis, the first quarter '12 consumer results were up around 4%. That includes really strong performance in US. The US retail business had a great quarter, with net income of $641 million, up 18%, driven by lower losses and higher margins.

Our portfolio is in good shape. US retail delinquency of 4.4% was down 54 basis points from the fourth quarter and it is at the lowest level in nine years, which is the only reporting period we have on this current basis, so just a great asset quality and performance in the portfolio.

Europe had net income of $122 million, down year-over-year from Garanti. Our UK home lending business earned $57 million in the quarter and we exited our Greek bonds in the quarter. We took a $21 million after-tax loss. We have no remaining Greek bond exposure.

Real estate had positive earnings of $56 million in the quarter. This is a great improvement, as you know, up $414 million from the first quarter of '11, up $210 million from the fourth quarter of '11. In the quarter we had $25 million of after-tax credit costs and $30 million of after-tax margin impairments. During the quarter, we also sold 103 properties worth about $500 million for a $56 million after-tax gain.

We continue to see strong global liquidity. It has helped improve valuations and while we are pleased with these results, there will be a European portfolio valuation review in the second quarter but overall the Real Estate team has started the year ahead our expectations -- off to a great start.

Commercial lending and leasing business delivered strong results. While assets were down 4%, net income of $685 million was up 24%, driven by lower credit costs, lower marks and impairments, and core income growth. America is the big driver, net income of $542 million was up 18%. Europe net income of $59 million was down 35% mainly driven by lower assets year-over-year as well as higher provisions in Italy.

GECAS had a good quarter, earnings of $318 million were up 4%, driven by higher core margin partially offset by lower gains. We sold 22 aircraft in the quarter for a gain of $21 million and portfolio quality remains strong. We ended the quarter with one aircraft on the ground out of our portfolio of over 1500 aircraft.

Energy Financial Services earnings of $71 million were down 37%. That's driven by $45 million of lower gains. Last year's Q1 results included $50 million from our Caithness Wind Farm sale.

So GE Capital is off to a strong start for '12 and let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. Just to reflect on the 2012 operating framework, we really have no change to the 2012 operating framework. We still see solid double-digit growth in both Industrial and GE Capital. If anything, progress in commercial Real Estate, Energy, and Healthcare, make is even more confident. We will continue to do restructuring to lower our cost.

CFOA and revenues are better than our expectations in the first quarter. The year is progressing the way we thought in December and again we are confident in our operating framework for the year.

To summarize, I would just make several points. Our markets continue to be attractive. Investments have accelerated our organic growth and lead to a strong competitive position. Margin improvements will accelerate through the year. Healthcare and Transportation margin growth has begun. I am encouraged by the orders pricing trend and again, margins are important for the GE team.

The GE Capital is very strong. The turn of commercial Real Estate is important and makes us feel positive about the balance of 2012.

Our cash flow is solid. Our plan is to resume the GE Capital dividend subject to Fed review and our capital allocation will be balanced and investor-friendly.

We don't take the environment for granted. We continue to be vigilant in risk management in a volatile world and we have strong liquidity and we are prepared for a variety of different outcomes. Finally, I think we are very well-positioned again for double-digit earnings growth in both Industrial and GE Capital.

So with that, Trevor, let me turn it back over to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Keith. Chanel, why don't we turn over to our questions. Let's go through them.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Barclays.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Maybe, Jeff, just to start off if you could give us a little bit of a sense on how you expect the margin ramp through the year. And I know it may be hard to quantify it exactly but you're starting off in a little bit of a hole in Energy Infrastructure to get your 50 bps for the year. How do you kind of see the rest of the year playing out?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, I would first say that the first quarter is typically the low quarter. We've seen the expansion over the last five years anywhere from 80 to 200 basis points on the total year. I think what you're going to see in the rest of the year is a positive value gap. You are going to see reduction in R&D spending as a percentage of the total, improved acquisition performance in the run rate and I would say the impact of restructuring and productivity programs.

So I would see as the year goes on Healthcare, Transportation solidly growing margin rates through the year. Aviation, we are expecting Aviation to be up 50 basis points on the year. Again we had some unusually high R&D in Q1.

Then on Energy, I always break down Energy into subcomponents. I think service margins will be up. I think Oil & Gas has a good shot to have positive operating profit leverage on the year. I think equipment margins will be down and I think our gas turbine equipment margins will be down based on what's on the backlog. And I would say wind is just a wild card given how much volume could actually take place in 2012 just based on the strength of the market.

So what I would say, Scott, is our costs are on plan. Our pricing performance is on plan. We have got lots of activities going to increase margins as the year goes on and that is kind of how I would --.

What I don't always control is the amount of revenue that any one individual product is having but we have tried to build in a little bit of buffer for negative mix and that's kind of how I handicap the year.

So I would say Aviation up, Transportation up, Healthcare up, Energy could swing anywhere from up slightly to down slightly and that's kind of the plan for the year. But the execution, the underlying execution is happening about the way we thought and the orders pricing and the pricing on new commitments I think bodes well for the rest of '12 and '13. So that's the way I would triangulate.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, that's helpful. And, Jeff, as a follow-up, your old business, Healthcare, I was -- I think there was a lot of concerns in the quarter that Europe could really fall apart and it didn't really. You were only down 4%. What -- how do you look at or how do you think about that business for the rest of the year particularly in Europe?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I think it's a great question. I think Europe is -- we had planned on a tough year in Europe in Healthcare and it is kind of coming in to be about what we had thought. I would say the US activity is a little bit better than we had thought. And then there's places we don't talk a lot about like Japan, where the healthcare market is very strong It both in a relative basis compared to last year and also in total.

So I saw probably -- we probably saw higher orders activity in Q1 than we expected and I would say in general, not just in Healthcare in Europe but in general, it's kind of hanging in there per our expectations.

SCOTT DAVIS: Thank you, guys. (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Scott, one interesting point about Europe for healthcare is that Germany, the Netherlands, the UK, and the Nordic had pretty good orders performance and Southern Europe is in a lot tougher shape. So there's a real split going on there in terms of the economic activity. That helped us a bit.

SCOTT DAVIS: Interesting, okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning. Sorry if you already answered this, but the down I guess on the gas turbine order side first of all, I think you said it was down from last year but also the price there was only down a percent I think is what you said. How do we think about that trajectory on both those data points throughout the course of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: First of all on the volume side, we said that we expected to deliver about 137 gas turbines this year so that will be up. There's no change to that outlook. We are seeing some good discussions globally for equipment volume. And so I think from a volume perspective we have a pretty good outlook and consistent with our framework.

From a pricing, this is really encouraging I would say. If you look at thermal, last year it was down 6% in the first quarter, 10% in the second quarter, 7.5%, 12.5% in the fourth quarter. To go to 1.1% down and to be positive including the service business I think that shows that we have been saying that the discussions around commitments on gas turbines have been healthy, that pricing was stabilizing, and so it's the start of a turn for us and I am reasonably encouraged by it.

STEVE TUSA: So there's nothing unusual? You think you can get -- if it's down 1% today and the environment is still getting better, you think you can get to positive at some point this year?

KEITH SHERIN: I think down in the analyst meeting we talked about by the end of the year showing this thing go positive and we are hoping that that can be what happens with us. We've got pretty good discussions going on commercially with customers. There's still an overhang of supply versus demand but globally there is order activity. We're going to have a good volume growth this year and this first quarter is indicative of where pricing is in the commitment world and where it's going, we think.

JEFF IMMELT: I think commitments are positive, Steve. That's usually a pretty good indication and my hunch by -- this is going to bode well or should bode well for '13 if you think about just the gas turbine margins. So I don't see any change to that. To Keith's point earlier, I think we see a lot of activity on gas turbine demand, let's say, in a lot of different parts of the world.

STEVE TUSA: Right, then just on the GE Capital front, you guys talked about -- I don't know if that was a change in language talking about return of capital throughout 2012 as opposed to by the end of 2012. Is there a potential for maybe some more measured return of capital but through several time periods throughout the course of the year? Is that a purposeful change in language or how do we read that?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't know. I don't think there's any purposeful change there. Our intent is to have a dividend as a percent of GE Capital's earnings that we pay to the parent and we are -- our overall objective is to return excess capital above the capital levels required by the regulatory standards and all the stress tests back to the parent as well, so there's no real change on that.

We're working constructively with the regulator. We've got a ton of activity going on with them and they are working very professionally with us, so our objective is unchanged and as soon as we get news we will give it to you.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a little more color on price and gas turbines, if we could. Are all those price order price numbers you are giving year-over-year changes?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

JEFF SPRAGUE: They are, they are not sequential. I'm also just wondering, Keith, as you noted things clearly look like they are getting better but you're seven, eight, nine quarters of negative price. Has your sales price caught up, sales price in revenue caught up with your order price? Can you give us some color on what gas turbine pricing and deliveries was in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, sure, we're working through that backlog. Overall, sales price in the quarter for the whole company was 0.6 positive on the Industrial side. For Energy Infrastructure, it was 0.4 negative. For Thermal, it was down 2.5. For renewables, it was down 4. So we are eating through that backlog that we've got. But overall for the Company, including the strength in Aviation, the strength in Transportation, the strength in Oil & Gas, pretty good on pricing overall. But we are going to work our way through that backlog this year.

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say the other piece of that, Jeff, is the value gap is positive in the quarter, which is a little bit better than plan. So we are seeing a little bit of break on commodity pricing, which is good, and that is -- I think bodes well for margins in the rest of the year.

JEFF SPRAGUE: On wind, those 200 units in Q1, is that additional units relative to what you expected for the year, or is that just some shift between the quarters?

KEITH SHERIN: From Q2. We saw tremendous orders in wind. I think we're going to have a very good year in wind this year. The US market is very robust, as you know. The production tax credits end by the end of the year, and we are taking a really good share in the marketplace and we're going to have a terrific performance. So they had some additional units versus what we thought in the first quarter, but so far it's from the second quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, wind could run hot for the year, I think. We've got a good product. Our market shares are high, and there's a ton of activity there right now.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then just finally on the Irish ops that went to discontinued ops, do you guys have any guarantees or make goods or anything attached to that where we might be concerned about some kind of discontinued tail on that?

KEITH SHERIN: We do not. That will be a complete exit.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, guys. Just first question on GE Capital. Just looking at I guess the reserve ratios on page 9 of the supplemental, can you just a little color about how you were thinking about -- I guess they have come down to 1.99 sequentially from last quarter to 2.1, so just the steady trend down, improvement in the environment, how you're thinking about that on the provisioning and reserve basis?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think we continue to see stabilization across on the financing receivables side and with loss provisions and write-offs; stabilization across almost all the portfolios of GE Capital. So I would expect you are going to continue to see a little bit of a decline as we worked our way through the write-offs for existing provided losses. But the new provisions that we are laying on today are representative of a pretty good run rate I would say, a very healthy run rate based on a good backdrop.

The main change that we have seen is the decline in the marks and the write-offs in the equity book in real estate specifically, so the run rates for new provisions for financing receivables are pretty good rates and at historically low levels I would say, Steve.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, so we are pretty close to what you expect for a run-rate reserve ratio.

KEITH SHERIN: On the provision for losses. We are going to continue to have the write-offs on prior provided losses that will probably be a little higher than new provisions.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, then on that real estate point you mentioned, I guess it was -- you said $0.5 billion for 56 transactions or I think it was -- sorry -- $56 million, right? Did I hear that correctly for profit?

KEITH SHERIN: That's right. We had a gain. We sold about $500 million, a little over 100 properties, $500 million of fair market value for a $56 million after-tax gain.

STEVE WINOKER: Does that mean --? So it would have been I guess net zero on segment profit roughly for the quarter without those. Is the debt business getting better too?

KEITH SHERIN: The debt business made money. The debt business made about $30 million after tax in the quarter.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, all right, great. And then just a question on the Industrial (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Hold on, sorry, the debt business made $86 million. The debt business had a pretty good quarter and we lost some money on the equity business.

STEVE WINOKER: Great. So I think you guys covered the whole Energy pricing pretty well. Just let me -- on the Aviation side, I know you mentioned you've got higher R&D driving it but could you provide a little color on that margin degradation? Was it all that? To what extent is pricing a factor there? Are you seeing any degradation in pricing spares, things like that?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, pricing was pretty good. Overall the margins were down in the quarter of 170 basis points in Aviation; positive value gap was a full point. We had positive price and then we had negative mix basically. We had a lot more equipment revenue than services revenue as we continued to deliver a lot of commercial activity. And then we had about $50 million from higher R&D investment.

And as Jeff said, that's going to abate through the year. We are kind of at the run rate and if you compare to last year we already had reached that run rate in the second half in Aviation, so that won't be a drag going forward that you saw in the first quarter but pricing continues to be very strong in both spares and in equipment in Aviation.

STEVE WINOKER: Right and that mix, you anticipate continuing to be negative for the rest of the year but no worse?

KEITH SHERIN: We're going to ship a lot of equipment. We have got a big backlog and Boeing and Airbus have increased their run rates and we've got a good share position. So we're going to ship a lot of equipment but what we would like to see through the year, as Jeff said, is the spares to grow a little bit as a percent of the total as we go through the year.

Spares, as we said, the orders were down a little bit. The shipments were down about 2% in the quarter and our expectation is that those will grow relative to last year as we go through that year, so that should get a little better as we go through the year for Aviation.

STEVE WINOKER: Right, and given your mix of orders that you are talking about on that, does that mean when I look at that backlog not changing from 2011 year-end to first quarter on that second or third slide, should we expect sort of a stable backlog or do you expect that to start coming up now a little bit more strongly in the following quarters on equipment?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we will have to see. I don't really have a forecast of orders versus the deliveries on the total -- I don't really forecast the backlog. We've got good, good global growth. We've got good equipment growth that we have had. As you know, the Aviation orders can be a little lumpy but we have got a tremendous backlog. We're in great shape here. I don't that's going to be an issue for us as we go through the year.

STEVE WINOKER: Great. Thanks, everybody.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. I guess on Energy, the equipment side I guess has been sort of fairly well discussed. In terms of the aftermarket in service and Energy, the growth rate on service orders was about the same year-on-year as it was in Q4. If you look at the US market, the electricity produced by gas powered equipment is up year on year even though overall electricity demand is down. So I guess are you seeing any kind of effect from that in terms of driving aftermarket business for gas turbines in the US or is it going to be something like nuclear in Japan, where there are a lot of [hopes] that that would spur a nuclear service boom, which for some reason even though there was a nuclear accident that never actually happened.

KEITH SHERIN: We had a pretty good activity in gas turbines in Japan. Look, I think it's all good. When you look at the power plants that are running in the US and the proportion of the power that's being generated from gas and how that has increased, that is a good news item for us. A lot of the outages for these customers are scheduled a year or more in advance, so those are kind of in place. But the fact that these gas turbines are running and they are running more and they are being dispatched -- that the rates that they are being dispatched is all good. I think it's going to be positive into '13 and '14 and beyond. We are not seeing a short-term pickup right now in PGS from that because most of the stuff as we have said is scheduled, but this is all good news.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, but your service order growth rates in the Energy theoretically should accelerate from the six or seven recent run rate?

KEITH SHERIN: I think over time you are going to get the benefit of the dispatching that we are seeing, absolutely. But again, these are long cycle assets and I think you're going to see that over time. I don't think you're going to see that as an April-May pickup just because they're dispatching the way they are. I think they are going to run these. They're going to burn a lot of metal parts and it's going to be good long-term for us.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks. Just a follow up on Aviation. Some discussion around the mix of [OE] and service. I guess it was my understanding that GEnx shipments in Q1 were fairly light and so does that not mean that you have a very steep sequential ramp of GEnx shipments through the year and that's going to weigh on your aviation margins even in subsequent quarters?

KEITH SHERIN: I think if you look at the total year, we are in decent shape. We had a pretty good run rate of GEnx's in the second half and in the second quarter we are going to ramp up. We shipped 13 units in the first quarter of '12. That was about flat to last year. For the second quarter, we are going to be up to 25 or 30 units and last year in the second quarter we had four.

But when you get to the second half, if we're shipping 25 to 30 units in the third and fourth quarter, that's about the run rate we had last year. That's why I think that's going to be helpful as you look at the aviation margin impact going into the second half.

JEFF IMMELT: GEnx continues to come down the learning curve and like Keith said, we had $50 million more in R&D in Q1 versus last year and that normalizes as well. So I would say Aviation is -- there's always puts and takes with any one of our businesses, but it's about where we thought we would be.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning. So the sale of the Irish business, what does that tell us about the risk appetite for buyers in the financial world? I can't imagine it was a particularly easy business to sell. Does this raise the probability of seeing some further exits on some of these red line assets?

KEITH SHERIN: We will see. I think for us, it was just sort of -- when you do have a chance to take a look at a portfolio that has the dynamics this one had and you get a buyer and we came to the point where you got we think a good economic return for shareholders, we will pursue it. There's not a lot of other parts of the portfolio that are like that but as you say, as liquidity has come back into the market, this is a particularly challenging one and it was a unique buyer I would say.

But there are signs of improved liquidity across a lot of our asset classes and you see the valuation improvements that we see in real estate. We will pursue opportunities as the bid and the ask gaps close here.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and what were the operating losses for that business? I'm sure it wasn't $0.02 a quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: Last year we lost $150 million after tax. We expected it to improve some this year, but we will see.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and then switching to Industrial, again going back to the gas NOC in the U.S., do you have a sense on where the utilization rates for your turbines are right now because there's been a 5 point mix shift year-over-year in gas production.

And do you think -- obviously the service benefit is clear down the road, but with the high utilization, does that spur orders quicker than maybe the amount of [thoughts] in 2012?

JEFF IMMELT: You mean, Nigel, orders for new units?

NIGEL COE: Exactly.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, look, I think just macro, the good news is almost everywhere in the world people are moving through it -- to gas. So the macro is -- the macro scene is very good. Our products are being used at a higher level. That should bode well for services not just this year but next. And again, I think -- when does the next US heavy equipment orders start? It's still hard to tell but just given growth in electricity and reserve rates and stuff like reserve margins and stuff like that, but it will come and it's going to be gas.

KEITH SHERIN: All roads lead to guess, Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: That's the bottom line I would give you. I would say China, the penetration of gas in China is growing. The penetration of gas in Japan is growing. The penetration of gas everywhere else in the world is growing. So in that we have relatively high market share there, we think every aspect I could give you is encouraging for the long-term. I just can't predict if it's going to be second quarter or third quarter, but it's coming.

KEITH SHERIN: I think one point on the thermal business that is helpful, we have diversified the business so much today that the thermal contribution from a profit perspective is less than 10% of the total profit on the energy infrastructure business. So the upside is in the front of us here.

NIGEL COE: Okay, just one more. We've seen Mitsubishi selling a couple of J-Series turbines and I think Siemens got an H-Series last month. What is your strategy with your H-Frame turbine? It seems that you talk a lot about the FlexEfficiency turbine but the H-Series seems to -- you don't seem to talk much about that but what sort of demand do you see out there for your H-Frame in the next couple of years?

JEFF IMMELT: We're going to have a big block in the next few years and I think we will be able to cover all of those areas I think and a lot of our customers like the Flex. We still think that's a good place to own but we will also have a big block.

NIGEL COE: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, guys. I guess listening to all the comment on GE Capital and the lower tax rate, I guess I'm wondering why the operating framework for GE Capital hasn't moved up here. What's holding you back? What are you still concerned about there relative to the very strong 1Q and kind of the lower delinquency trends and all the other trends you see out there?

KEITH SHERIN: Look, I think we have to see how the year plays out. It's a pretty good quarter. I think you're right, we've got some positives. I think tax is a positive. I think commercial real estate is off to a good start. It's a positive. I think if you look, we are cautious on Europe. I think so far so good, but we are cautious on it. I think low natural gas prices, we are cautious on that in the energy financial services portfolio. But overall, these guys are off to a good start and the outlook in the market place is pretty good.

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, you know, double is double plus and we're not trying to be cute, but there's nothing in the first quarter that makes us discouraged about how GE Capital should perform this year.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Keith, for the good in welfare, any items you want to call out with regards to comps or any other items in the second quarter that we all just ought to be refreshed on?

KEITH SHERIN: There's nothing on 2012 that I'm aware of. If you go -- I think one thing I mentioned, we are going to have more GEnx shipments, but we mentioned that. That's in Aviation. I think if you look at last year's other items page, we will have to see how we compare to some of those things. There were small gains in Aviation that don't repeat and a gain in corporate, but there's nothing significant and 2012 that I'm aware of right now.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and I appreciate we're not going to get things nailed down here from you on Fed timing. But I'm wondering if you can explain -- it has taken longer than initially expected. That was -- the decks were cleared on that point last quarter. Since last quarter, has the process proceeded at a similar pace as what you had seen before? Has it been slower? Has it been faster? Any color there at all for us?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I would say it has proceeded at a similar pace. I can tell you that both the GE Capital team and the team from the Fed are working incredibly hard. You have to appreciate how much work the Fed has to go through here to try and learn a business as global as diverse as GE Capital in the timeframe that they really just started. And I think they are working incredibly hard and incredibly professionally and we are, too. I think the process proceeded in the first quarter the same way it was going at the end of the year and we continue to make progress together.

TERRY DARLING: Maybe just lastly, Jeff, on bolt-on acquisitions, it's been a little quiet here of late. Can you update us on what's in the pipeline and potential for some smaller bolt-ons here through the course of 2012?

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, we may do some smaller bolt-ons, but we've got a lot on our plate. I really want to get all the Energy acquisitions nailed. I just don't want to do a big deal this year. I just -- again, we never say never but I just don't want to do a big deal this year. I really -- we've got 11% organic growth, 20% orders growth. We've got game right now and I think our focus is on good execution and delivering big backlogs. That's really the focus of the leadership team.

TERRY DARLING: All right. Thanks very much. Good luck.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. On the 11% Industrial organic growth does fare pretty well against guidance. Would you expect that is a high watermark for the year? Or maybe just offer some color on how you see backlog flowing through during the year.

JEFF IMMELT: My hunch is that we don't have any plans to continue at that rate for the year. I think, Chris, we said 5% to 10% in the December meeting. I think we're going to be safely in that range and again, we just see pretty good -- big backlogs, big orders and we are in some good places right now. So I think that's -- but 11 is high.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Got you. And then on the second-quarter review of European CRE portfolio review, do you have a taste you could offer on the outcomes you might be anticipating that is in the context of the overall valuation improvement?

KEITH SHERIN: We will have to see. We've continued to mark our equity book where we have values that put the cash flows at less than our current book value, so I think we've got a pretty good mark on it today but you'll have to see how the assumptions play out.

Overall, we feel pretty good about Real Estate. I think we're going to be cautious. We'll look, we've got about $8 billion of equity in real estate in Europe, so we have to go through the valuation review, take it incredibly seriously, but I think overall you'll feel good about the dynamics globally.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citigroup.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Good morning, everyone. On the Moody's recent recalibration of their methodology for ratings finance companies, have you seen any change in your funding costs?

KEITH SHERIN: We haven't really. We've tracked it obviously from the day we were put on notice and the day that the action was taken. Our spreads continue to trade relative to banks who are higher rated and banks who are lower rated than us right in line and over the last 10 days, the first couple days we saw an increase in spreads in line sort of with the market and then the last 10 days, we've seen a compression of the spreads back again.

Overall as you know, all the actions that we have taken in GE Capital, the strength in liquidity, lower the short-term funding risk, raise the capital, improve the risk profile of the portfolio, I think those have been pretty well recognized by the market and the fact that the Moody's methodology just has a fundamental change in how they feel about fin cos and ultimately they're going to do the same thing on banks as you've read a lot about recently.

I think that the market is looking at what is the core business and underlying strength of the cash flows and the protection for the bondholders of the business? I think the actions that we've taken in GE Capital have been recognized by the market and have helped us to perform through a period where we were downgraded.

DEANE DRAY: Yes, and we agree when we looked at how the bonds initially acted at the time of the announcement was, it was very minor. It was like maybe between 5 and 10 basis points and then that seemed to have tightened subsequently, so it's fair to say that was a non-event.

KEITH SHERIN: We agree.

DEANE DRAY: And then over on the resumption of the dividend from Capital to the parent, one of the scenarios we were talking about in December was the idea that you could be in the position to make that dividend retroactive going back to January. Is that still a possibility or how are you looking at that today?

KEITH SHERIN: Look, our objective is to have a dividend of a percentage of GE Capital's earnings that is equivalent to what we pay to our investors on the overall company stock. And it would be for the year and the timing of the reviews and everything that we have should not change that. But again, we are going to have to wait until we get feedback and information from the Fed on that.

Our objective hasn't changed. Our objective was to pay a 45% dividend on GE Capital's earnings for the entire year and to return excess capital above the regulatory standards including the stress cases. And it's something that over several years we feel really good about the excess capital we have in financial services.

But again, we've got to work through this exercise and we're doing it constructively and professionally and as you saw the results in GE Capital in the first quarter continued to strengthen. So we have to see how that all goes.

DEANE DRAY: And what is the expectation on the stress test and talk a bit about the preparation that you are going through.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we do our own stress cases a couple times a year and we are not publicizing those results. But you can expect that an enterprise like GE Capital would go through exercises similar to what you saw other large financial institutions go through but we do it in our own way with the Fed sort of uniquely as opposed to being part and lumped together with the banks.

So we're doing a lot of work. We have stress cases. We have portfolio reviews. We have reserve reviews. We have all the things that you would expect a financial institution to have and just we're doing it one-on-one with the Fed and it won't be disclosed.

DEANE DRAY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA: I am trying to figure out if we should be expecting ENI to go lower at GE Capital. The problem with Real Estate getting so good now is you had real estate turn positive in the quarter. You got the GE Capital tax rate going down 5 points with Industrial staying about where it was and you have capital like 50% of earnings. I'm trying to figure out how we get -- it doesn't seem like anything is getting worse at Capital, everything is getting better, so how do we get that percentage down if we are not sort of doing I guess some larger asset exits?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I would always say that GE Capital's percentage of earnings in the first quarter are always high and we haven't changed our long-term outlook on where we want the split to be. And then I -- again, we continue to execute on a plan that would get us lower than where we finished the first quarter in ENI. And we see opportunities to do that by exiting red assets and we still have opportunities there and that's what I would expect.

But at the same time, look, our net interest margin is growing. Our returns on new business, our ROI on new business was higher in the first quarter than it was in the fourth quarter so there's lots of other elements in the business that are good even as we shrink ENI.

KEITH SHERIN: I think it's a good point on -- it is one other point on ENI, when you look at total year, we are continuing to shrink. So that is one of the things that does reduce earning assets obviously in earnings. And on tax, I don't think it's a straight 5 points. I think it's a couple of points in the range of what we had as midteens to around 10. And there's a lot of uncertainty of that, as you know, when you get to the end of the year so that obviously is another item that could move as you go into the end of 2012 and into 2013.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, yes, I understand the point on the seasonality with some industrial stuff strong later in the year but in terms of the ENI, does 425 still feel like the right number or --?

JEFF IMMELT: Shannon, again, I think that is kind of -- again these are big numbers. They are always hard to predict to a single point. My preference and the way we are trying to run the place is to get to 425 by the end of the year.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, just on the capital allocation, can you just fill out I guess this investor friendly comment a little bit in terms of when you do -- or assuming you do and when you do get the dividend back from capital, is buyback still sort of the priority use? How should we -- maybe just frame some thoughts around how you think about ramping that once you get the green light?

JEFF IMMELT: Again this is something that we will go through with the Board when it takes place, but I would say we love growing the dividend in line with earnings. We think that's great. We do -- we might do a few small bolt-on acquisitions in businesses we are already in. And if we get the opportunity, we would still like to do a buyback, so I think there will be some mixture but we certainly think buybacks are attractive to our investors and that's what it means to be investor-friendly.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, so sort of balanced buyback acquisitions?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I hate to predict anything. But I think we believe that buybacks are investor-friendly but I always go back to dividends, small bolt-on acquisitions and buybacks, we will pull all three levers I think as we have surplus cash.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. First, Jeff, I think you mentioned earlier when discussing orders that you thought you were gaining share in certain markets and feeling pretty good about that. Can you elaborate on where you see the most substantial market share gains?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, we never know those numbers ahead of time, so each industry has its own cadence. It's just a high level versus what anybody would predict for the industries we are in. So I think we need to see [NEMA] data and other stuff as we go through the close of the quarter and get a chance to look at some of our competitors' results.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. And then lastly, can you give us an update on the 737 MAX program and the engine development, how it's going there? I think there's been some concerns about how that was going given the size constraints on the 737, whether you would be able to have an engine that was competitive enough with the A320 (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: I think we like where we are. We see some additional fuel burn opportunities that we want to execute on. I just was reviewing the program a couple of weeks ago out in Cincinnati. I think we have able to take a lot of technology off the GEnx and put it into LEAP. I would say if you sat back and said you've got the 737 MAX, you've got the C919 and our share of the A320 NEO is probably greater than 50%, we like how the engine is positioned. And so we feel pretty good about both the technology and the commercial process on that particular -- on the narrowbody space.

JASON FELDMAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg, Langenberg & Company.

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, LANGENBERG & COMPANY: Thanks, guys. Just two questions. Talk about Energy and Healthcare, first on Energy. Great news on the pricing. It almost defies logic not in terms of the direction and what we're looking for being bullish on your stock but just how quickly. How much of this is customers and talk a little bit by region going hey, we do need this capacity. We may have to back off a little bit to get a deal signed. And how much of this if any is your teams being a little bit more selective in saying there is just some business that maybe we let somebody else win? Then I have a brief question on Healthcare.

KEITH SHERIN: Look, I don't think -- we are trying to compete globally everywhere, Brian, and we are -- we've got good, strong competitors especially in that thermal space and we've got a great product in the Flex 50. We've got a great product in our heavy-duty gas turbine product line and so I don't think anybody is backing off anywhere. I think we are competing globally.

One of the things that you may see relative to the historic trend is you ended up with some higher priced capacity that has had price erosion over the last 12 to 18 months and now we are getting to kind of a market clearing price level. So it's not so much either walking away or supply and demand has tightened dramatically. I think you have really just had the pricing get to a level where it's probably more realistic for the main competitors in the marketplace based on the demand we see. I hope that helps a little bit.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: It does. It sounds a little bit like new normal. Then on the Healthcare side, certainly some decent performance there especially with all the noise that's going on. Did you -- have you observed or did your team there observe any kind of a change in texture as the Healthcare Reform is going to the Supreme Court, arguments, anything you guys saw blip-wise up or down in terms of margin propensity to buy through the quarter or your conversations now?

JEFF IMMELT: Really none. Again, I think the US seems to have normalized. My hunch is the market is probably single digit, low single digit up. That would be my expectation and, Brian, we really didn't see any change after the Supreme Court or anything like that. (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Orders on equipment were really strong in the US as we setup the 15 and that is -- that says that there's good technology and customers have capital and they need to continue to improve their capability and so I think overall, it was a very encouraging quarter.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: And that plus 15 was a fairly steady plus 15?

KEITH SHERIN: We have a few -- if you want some products, CT was up 10, MRI was up 9, (multiple speakers)

BRIAN LANGENBERG: I mean through the quarter. I'm sorry, through the quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: No real change. Pretty steady.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA: Sorry, I don't know if the question was answered but I just wanted to get a little bit more info on this utilities continue to come out and talk about the high utilization of their plants from a gas perspective. How does that translate over the next 12 to 18 months from a services perspective? Because it's kind of unclear to me -- there's a lot of moving parts with which plants are being used, the starts and stops, whether that's more profitable for your services business. Maybe you could just give a little bit of color on how that actually impacts the services business at Energy.

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Steve, is that if you look over let's say 18 months and as this performance continues, this should be good for our Energy PowerGen services business, because again, they run them higher. They're going to consume more parts, things like that. Now this all gets balanced between who has got shutdowns, when are the shutdowns, where are they on a CSA? There's a whole bunch of -- there's like 10 other Xs that are in that equation but the macro point is positive. That's why -- I don't think we're trying to be vague. It's just hard to call a quarter, but the macro trend is good.

STEVE TUSA: So was it something that can add instead of it growing 5% just on installed base, could it add a couple percentage points to that growth rate? Is it something that meaningful or is it -- it will all kind of blend in and kind of support the kind of mid-single digit services growth?

KEITH SHERIN: I think what it could do is over time add to the growth rate, but again, I do believe that so I just think it's just hard to predict exactly when.

STEVE TUSA: Well, it's certainly not going to hurt the growth rate. Okay, that's good. Thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, Chanel. I think we are wrapped up now. Is that correct?

OPERATOR: That is correct, there are no further questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thank you, everyone, for today. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be disturbing our quarterly supplemental data scheduled for GE Capital later today.

Just a few quick announcements regarding upcoming events. Next week on Wednesday is our 2012 annual shareholders meeting in Detroit. I hope to see you there. On May 23rd, Jeff will be presenting at the 2012 EPG conference. And then finally, our second-quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be held on Friday, July 20th. As always, we will be available to take questions today. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
fed : Federal Reserve Board | gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81401 : Central Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120504e84k0015s
  


 HD
 Q4  2011  General Electric  Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,203 words
   PD
20 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is Chanel, and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg. Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's fourth-quarter 2011 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning. The presentation slides are available. Slides are available for download printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Good morning. Thanks.

Look, GE finished the year with real strength. We had the best order results in history.

Many of our key end-use markets are showing momentum, like commercial real estate and aviation. The emerging markets continue to be very strong. There are a few challenged markets like Europe and appliances; but on balance we have a positive outlook.

Company operations were strong. EPS grew by 11%. Organic growth was 5%. CFOA and liquidity were very strong.

GE Capital exceeded all of their performance goals and ended with a very strong Tier 1 Common ratio. We are executing a balanced capital allocation plan.

We increased the dividend again in fourth quarter. Overall the dividend grew by 21% in 2011. Our buyback for the year was $5.4 billion, including both common shares and the Berkshire preferred.

Finally, we end 2011 with confidence that we can deliver on our 2012 double-digit earnings framework. So overall, a good quarter.

Orders grew by 15%, which was up 9% organically. We had fairly broad-based strength. Of particular note, Energy orders were up 23%. Thermal orders were up 88%, and we had orders for 50 heavy-duty gas turbines in the quarter. Orders in the emerging markets grew by 26%.

We end the year with $200 billion of backlog and had an equipment book-to-bill ratio of 1.23 for the quarter. So these numbers certainly support a 5% to 10% organic growth goal for 2012.

Our investments in growth are paying off. First on the global front we had a 25% expansion in our Industrial growth market revenue. Our expansion was broad-based, with most businesses and most regions experiencing strong growth.

Services grew by 14% and expanded margins. We had strong growth across all businesses and we ended the year with $147 billion of service backlog.

We increased R&D by 16% in 2011, resulting in multiple new product launches. In Healthcare we launched leadership products in MR, ultrasound, and interventional.

Energy is growing in both the heavy-duty gas turbine market, with the Flex 50 and 60, but also in the distributed energy products with solar and waste heat recovery. Aviation has positioned the LEAP-X to win and had the H80 turboprop launch to penetrate new segments.

Rail is picking up global orders. We are launching a full range of appliance products in the next six quarters. So overall our organic growth should continue.

We made progress on margins in the quarter. We're up 250 basis points versus third-quarter '11. Most of our negative rate versus fourth-quarter 2010 is explained by acquisitions and R&D investment.

Looking forward we still feel good about a 50 basis point improvement in 2012. We have good productivity programs in place. We're making structural improvements, and our global and R&D investments are on a run rate.

We see energy pricing stabilizing as we move through 2012 and into 2013. So margins are an important focus for our leadership team, and we think we will make progress in 2012.

In cash, we had very good, very strong cash performance. CFOA was $5.5 billion in the fourth quarter. That is a record quarter. This led to total CFOA of $12.1 billion for the year.

Our working capital performance was very strong in the fourth quarter. Consolidated cash was $85 billion at year-end.

Our capital allocation plan was in line with expectations. We grew the dividend twice in 2011. We completed nearly $12 billion of acquisitions and bought back $5.4 billion of stock, including the Berkshire preferred.

So overall, cash and capital allocation were either equal to or better than planned and we feel good about that performance.

We continue to strengthen GE Capital liquidity. We prepared for 2012 maturities by having a substantial amount of cash on hand. We have already issued $5 billion of long-term debt, so we are off to a good start.

Our Tier 1 Common ratio was 11.4% for GECC and 9.9% for GECS. On a Basel III basis, we compare favorably to the banks.

We ended 2011 with $445 billion of ending net investment, ahead of our plan. As a result, we are resetting our ending net investment goal for 2012 to between $425 billion and $440 billion.

We will continue to grow in high-return segments. Our expectations for GE Capital earnings are unchanged for 2012. At the same time, we expect to have lower debt issuances for the year.

So, looking forward, we have achieved a focused high-margin (inaudible) GE Capital, a financial service business that can grow and win in this marketplace. And with that, I will turn it over to Keith to go through our operations.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning, everyone. I'm going to start with the fourth-quarter summary.

We had continuing operations revenues in the quarter of $38 billion; they were down 8%. Industrial sales of $26.7 billion were reported down 7%. However, if you look at the notes at the bottom of the page, excluding the impact of not having the NBCU revenues last year, GE's industrial sales were up 11%.

Financial Services revenues, $11.6 billion, were down 9%. That was driven by our lower assets year-over-year, mostly.

Operating earnings of $4.1 billion were up 6%, and operating earnings per share of $0.39 were up 11%, reflecting the benefit of retiring the preferred shares.

Continuing earnings per share includes the impact of the nonoperating pension, and net earnings per share includes the impact of discontinued operations. And that reflects a $0.02 charge this year, which I am going to cover on the next page, and also on a comparison basis the non-repeat of the net $0.06 of gains we had last year in discontinued operations.

Cash for the year of $12.1 billion was very strong. We had a great fourth quarter and the total year, and Jeff covered that.

For taxes in the fourth quarter, our tax rates were 15% for GE, excluding GE Capital. The GE Capital rate was 4%. Those rates include about $0.03 of benefit from our IRS audit resolution for the years 2006 and 2007; and I will go into a little more detail on that on the next page.

So those amounts put us right in line with our third-quarter outlook for tax rates for GE and GE Capital.

The consolidated GE rate ended the year at 29%. The GE rate excluding GE Capital was 38%, and that includes the impact of the NBCU gain from the first quarter. If you exclude that, the GE rate was 19% for the year; that is up 2 points over last year. And the GE Capital rate for the year came in at 12%, and that rate is up significantly from 2010 as a result of our significantly higher pretax income.

As you look forward for 2012, I would estimate our GE rate to be somewhere in the low 20% range and the GE Capital rate to be somewhere in the mid teens range for 2012.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial revenues were up 10%. Industrial segment profit was up 2%. That was driven by Transportation and Aviation.

You can see Energy was flat, and that is a big improvement versus the 3Q year-to-date results. Healthcare was down slightly, and Home & Business Solutions continue to be negatively impacted by the housing market.

Down on the bottom, GE Capital had another strong quarter with earnings up 58%, and I'm going to go into each of the segments in more detail in a few pages.

Before I get to the businesses, I will start with the other items page. As we mentioned during third quarter, we were in negotiation for final resolution of the 2006, 2007 tax years with the IRS. We did reach a resolution on several tax matters for those two years.

That resulted in $0.03 of benefit in the fourth quarter. In terms of geography, $0.01 of that was in Industrial, and $0.02 of that were recorded at GE Capital. So overall, a $0.03 benefit at the end of the year from that resolution.

We also had some one-time costs in Q4. We had a little more than $0.02 related to restructuring. We reduced the cost structure in Energy, Healthcare, and GE Capital. We also had almost $0.01 of one-time costs related to this year's acquisitions, as we have had throughout the year.

So if you look at where these were recorded, the charges were recorded at corporate. On an after-tax basis we had $78 million in Energy; $58 million in Healthcare; $28 million in GE Capital; and then Aviation, H&BS, Transportation, and corporate all had about $15 million of restructuring as we work on lowering our cost base as we go into 2012.

On the bottom of the page, we did an update on Gray Zone reserves in the fourth quarter. While the claims have declined significantly from the peak that we saw in the first quarter of 2011, we did see an uptick in September. Then we saw declines in October through December. Based on the 2011 activity, we have updated our long-term claims reduction assumption.

We had set this at 4% in the third-quarter 2010, and we reduced it this quarter by about 1 point. So if you include the current claims severity as well as the claims assumption adjustment, it resulted in a $243 million addition to the reserves in the fourth quarter.

We end the year with $692 million of reserves, and we expect the claims to continue to decline. The December claims were down. We will have to obviously monitor and communicate where we are in Gray Zone going forward, but the trends feel good based on where we are at the end of the fourth quarter.

One other point that is not on the page, as we discussed in the first-quarter earnings we did have six more days in Q1 2011 versus Q1 2010, and that is just based on our fiscal calendar. That helped us by about $0.01 EPS in the first quarter. In the fourth quarter, we had the opposite effect; we had six fewer days in the fourth quarter of the '11 versus '10, and that impact was about $1 billion of lower revenue and about $0.01 less EPS in the fourth quarter. So we also absorbed that impact.

Next I want to cover two reporting updates for you. On the left side, we are in the process of merging GE Capital Services into GE Capital Corporation so that we end up with one SEC registrant for Financial Services. Basically, the current reporting for GE Capital Services will become the going-forward reporting for all of GE Capital Corporation.

Those results at GE Capital Services will be the segment GE Capital that we use with investors. That will be what Mike Neal and the team run. There won't be two organizations.

We think this is a big simplification. It will be effective for the first-quarter earnings, and we are going to file an 8-K today outlining this merger.

So there is no change in the fourth quarter or how we are reporting GE Capital until the first quarter, and going forward we will have one consistent Financial Services entity. So I look forward to getting to just reporting GE Capital and having it be the total enterprise.

On the right side, we completed an internal reorganization in October. We moved the responsibility for the Measurement & Controls business run by Brian Palmer over to Dan Heintzelman in the Oil & Gas business.

You can see the financial size here, $4 billion of revenue, $600 million of op profit on a total year basis. The details of this move are in the supplemental materials that we released this morning. We moved this business because it reflects the customer alignment for the M&CS business; it is much more aligned with the Oil & Gas base.

It is going to give us more scale in the Solutions business for Oil & Gas. There is no change to the overall Energy Infrastructure segment, so this is just between Energy and Oil & Gas within the segment. And today on the results that we will show you, I will give you both before and after so you can clearly see this impact.

So, two organization changes; and I will move on to the business results.

First is Energy Infrastructure. The fourth quarter was a mixed performance. We had a terrific orders quarter, as Jeff talked about, and I will give you more details. Revenue was also very strong, but it was less than our September forecasts.

We had some wind units and we had some equipment installations pushed into 2012. We also had some impact that was worse than we expected in September from the stronger dollar.

Segment profit, while it was significantly better than the first three quarters, it was slightly less than the growth we expected. And I will cover that by business.

I am going to cover the details for Energy and Oil & Gas on the new basis, as I just covered. So you can see that down in the bottom left. However, the pre-reorganization basis is also shown on the bottom left; and as I said, the supplemental data has all the details. So what I am going to go through now is on the basis with M&CS moved into Oil & Gas.

I'll start with Energy. We had another quarter of great orders growth. Orders of $11 billion were up 19%. Equipment orders at $6 billion were up 33%. They are even up 24% excluding the impact of the acquisitions.

Renewable orders at $2 billion were up 53%. We had orders for 1,023 wind turbines versus 477 a year ago. Thermal orders of $1.9 billion were up 88%, and we received orders for 50 gas turbines versus 29 last year. That is a great quarter for gas turbines.

Equipment orders price was down 4.4%. Renewables pricing was down 4.9%. Thermal pricing was down 12.5%.

If you look at the combined thermal and power-gen services orders price impact, it was down 5.5%, and service pricing was flat.

Service orders in the quarter, $5 billion, were up 6%. When you look at the top line, revenue at $9.2 billion was up 11%. That is driven by the strong volume we had and the acquisitions benefit. Organic revenue in Energy was up 6%.

Equipment revenue of $5 billion was up 15%. That was driven by renewables, $1.6 billion, it was up 15%. We shipped 688 wind turbines versus 592 last year. That was a little short of our goal, if you look at what we put out for the third quarter, as we expected for the total year -- we had some slip.

Jenbacher revenue was up 57%. Aero revenue was up 14%. That growth was partially offset by thermal revenues of $1.3 billion; it was down 3%.

We had higher volume in gas turbines, 33 this year versus 18 last year, but that was more than offset by having lower balance of plant revenue -- items that are produced by other parties that we don't make, but we include in the project -- and also the lower pricing.

Service revenue of about $4.1 billion was up 7%. For the quarter, segment profit of $1.7 billion was down 3% as the benefits of the higher volume and material deflation were more than offset by lower pricing and negative unit mix. Now, while being down 3% is a great improvement over the third quarter year-to-date result of down 20%, the main drag continued to be our wind business, which accounted for $41 million of the $44 million year-over-year op profit decrease; and I will cover some more of the dynamics on the wind business for 2012 on the next page.

For Oil & Gas, orders of $4.7 billion were up 34%. Equipment orders of $2.4 billion were up 40%, driven by the acquisitions plus strong refinery and petrochemical orders. Service orders at $2.3 billion were up 29% on strong drilling and production activity.

Oil & Gas orders price index was a positive 2/10 in the quarter. Revenue of $4.1 billion was up 38%, again driven by the impact of the acquisitions; excluding acquisitions, the revenue was up 6%.

Segment profit of $630 million was up 12%. That is driven by the acquisitions plus strong volume, partially offset by negative productivity across the business. So overall when you look at Energy Infrastructure, a significantly improved earnings profile as we exit 2011.

Now, thought it would be helpful to give you a little more detail on the Energy plan for 2012. On this chart we ended the year with $6.7 billion of op profit. Our plan is to grow double-digit in 2012, and you can see the drivers on the right side.

First, we have an incredibly strong equipment backlog. Energy equipment orders of $25.5 billion were up 39% last year. We are planning on double-digit growth in the equipment deliveries, and you can see the huge growth in wind and aero volume down on the bottom left that is in the business plan for 2012.

For services, our service orders were $22.8 billion, up 9% for 2011. Our service backlog stands at $50 billion, so we should expect a good services year in Energy.

We invested a lot in new products and in growth. We have peaked in terms of our program and growth investments as a percent of revenue, so that is not going to be a drag on margins for Energy. And we will get a full year of the acquisition earnings.

So, those four factors more than offset the price pressure that we already have in the backlog and that we've talked out about quite a bit. You know, the Energy team has worked through the toughest part of the earnings cycle, mainly driven by the 2011 wind margin declines; and we are looking forward to delivering double-digit earnings growth in 2012.

Next is Aviation. The Aviation team had another solid quarter in the fourth quarter. Orders of $6.9 billion were up 18%. Commercial engine orders of $3.3 billion were up 67%, driven by the GE90. Military engine orders of $402 million were up 53%, driven by foreign military orders.

Equipment orders price was up 1.9%. We ended the quarter with a backlog of $22.5 billion, up 12% versus last year.

Service orders of $2.7 billion were down 9%. Military services were down 41% driven by lower F110 spares. Commercial services were up 1%, driven by higher overall activity -- overhaul activity, partially offset by a lower spares rate.

The fourth-quarter spares order rate was $22.3 million a day, down 11%; and that reflects the aggressive purchasing that we saw in the third quarter in advance of the November price increase. If you look at the total-year average daily order rate for our spares it was $24.7 million, up 13% over 2010. And the team feels very confident about the current spares rate and how they are doing in the marketplace commercially.

Revenue of $4.9 billion; that was up 2%, driven by equipment up 3% and services up 2%. We shipped 518 commercial engines in the quarter. That was down seven engines from last year, but revenues were up 10% on more GE90 units; and we shipped 34 GEnx units in the quarter.

Segment profit of $850 million was up 4%. That is driven by the strong volume and the positive value gap in the capital business.

On the right side, Transportation. The Transportation team continued delivering strong results in the fourth quarter. Orders of $1.2 billion were down 11%. That is driven by the tough comparisons.

Equipment orders of $500 million were down 43% because of no repeat of last year's $550 million multiyear order. So the order is still in the backlog, but it is a tough comparison.

Service orders at $739 million were up 57%. That is driven by the growth in our long-term service agreements. And orders pricing for Transportation was up 1.2%.

Revenue in the quarter, $1.5 billion, was up 43% driven by all the strong volume. We shipped 210 locomotives domestically versus 86 in the fourth quarter last year. We shipped 48 international units versus 30 last year. And mining revenues were also up almost 40% on higher volume.

Service revenues were up over 30% on strong long-term agreement performance, and segment profit of $226 million was up more than 200% driven by all that strong volume and the services delivery.

Next is Healthcare. We did see a slowdown in the developed markets in Q4 for Healthcare. Orders of $5.2 billion were flat. Equipment orders of $3.2 billion were up 1%.

Diagnostic imaging over all globally was down 2%. Clinical systems was up 5%. Life sciences was up 3%.

If you go by geography, US equipment was down 7% and non-US equipment was up 6%; and here are some of the pieces. Europe was down 13%; that was the toughest market. China was up 29%; India was up 20%; Latin America was up 6%.

Service orders at $2.1 billion were down 1%, and the total orders price for the business was down 1.9%.

Revenue of $5.2 billion was up 1%. That was really driven by the emerging markets, which were up 16%, partially offset by the declines in Europe and the US. Segment profit of $953 million was down 5% as the benefits of the higher volume and productivity were more than offset by negative price and the continued investments we're making in the new business, like Intel Home Health JV, and also new products.

On the right set of the page, H&BS had another tough quarter. Revenues of $2.2 billion were down 4%. Segment profit of $82 million was down 41%.

These results were driven by appliances. The domestic market was down 12% in units in the quarter. We gained 7/10 of a point of a share in the quarter, but the inflation we saw was only partially offset by pricing, resulting in the overall segment profit decline.

Lighting revenues were down 1% driven by Europe, and Intelligent Platforms revenues were up 4% driven by strong software growth.

Let me shift to GE Capital. Mike Neal and the Capital team had a really good quarter. Revenues of $10.7 billion were down 9%, in line with our ENI shrinkage plus the impact of the fewer days. Pretax and after-tax earnings continue to rebound.

On the right side, asset quality metrics showed continued improvements or stability. We had $49 billion of volume in the quarter, which was up 13% from Q3. Our margins came in at 5.4% for the year.

We continue to beat our ending investment targets, and there is a lot more information about GE Capital in the supplemental charts on reserve coverage and non-earnings that we posted this morning.

So, just a few highlights by business. I will start with consumer. The consumer business had another positive earnings quarter. We ended the year with assets of $139 billion; that was down 6%. Net income of $575 million was up 5%, and that was driven by the improved credit costs.

US retail finance had a great quarter. They earned $463 million which was up 29%, driven by some acquisitions -- we added some portfolios -- and also lower credit costs. The US retail finance volume was strong; it was up 3% over last year and it was up 14% versus the third quarter.

For Europe, we had net income of $111 million. That was down 35%, but it was driven by not having the Garanti earnings that we used to have since we sold our stake there.

We also had $63 million of after-tax impairments on our Greek bonds. That brings the net book value of our Greek holdings down to about $74 million.

Our UK home lending business earned $89 million in the quarter. Good performance on asset quality. 30-day delinquencies were down 97 basis points versus Q3. Our owned real estate stock was down to 461 houses, and that is the lowest we have had since 2005. And on the houses that we did repossess and sold, we realize 115% of the carrying value on our sales in the fourth quarter, so pretty good marks and valuation.

Next is real estate. Commercial real estate had another quarter with significant improvement over last year. Assets of $61 billion were down $12 billion or 16% versus last year.

They were also down $4 [billion] or 6% versus the third quarter, so we continue to work in this book down. The business ended Q4 with $153 million of losses after tax; that was $256 million better than last year.

During the quarter, we incurred $64 million of after-tax credit costs and $168 million of after-tax marks and impairments. Also during the quarter, a bright spot I would say, we sold 157 properties for $1.9 billion, realizing $132 million in after-tax gains. So as you see in the press, there is more liquidity in the commercial real estate market, and our business is benefiting from that.

As Jeff mentioned on the front page, our unrealized loss on the equity portfolio was down to $2.6 billion. And the outlook is that real estate is going to continue to deliver a strong, improved performance in 2012.

Commercial lending and leasing also had another strong quarter. Assets of $194 billion were down 4% due to the runoff of some non-core assets and dispositions. Net income of $777 million was up 37%; that is driven by lower losses and higher core income.

Americas net income of $570 million was up 42%, driven by lower credit costs, and that is their best quarter that they have had in four years. Europe and Asia were both down a bit, driven by lower assets.

GECAS. GECAS fourth quarter is actually better than it looks. You can see here a net income of $315 million as reported, down 27%; but that included the impact last year of $167 million of tax benefits from the IRS settlement we had last year in the fourth quarter. There were no such benefits allocated to GECAS this year. So if you look on a normalized basis, net earnings would have been about 19% up, driven by continued improvements in core margin.

Asset quality remains strong here. We ended the quarter, ended the year with two aircraft on the ground. So another good year for GECAS.

Energy Financial Services also had a strong quarter. Earnings of $110 million were up 234% driven by higher core income and higher gains. So overall, another very strong performance by GE Capital. And let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, great, Keith, thanks. For 2012 we are confirming our earnings framework. Strong orders and rebounding margins support double-digit Industrial growth. A better margins, improving commercial real estate, and lower losses support double-digit Capital growth. Corporate costs and CFOA are in line with our December meeting.

Industrial organic growth is well positioned to expand by 5% to 10%. Capital revenue will be below our December meeting, based on lower ENI. So, we close the year with momentum towards these results and goals that we have for 2012.

To conclude, we are positioned, I think, for strong execution in '12. Organic growth looks solid with the $200 billion backlog. Margins are improving, fueled by productivity programs and cost actions.

Our Industrial returns will exceed 15%. We are positioned to deliver on the two areas most important to investors -- double-digit Industrial earnings growth with higher margins, and double-digit Capital earnings growth with the goal of restarting the GE Capital dividend to GE.

So it was a good quarter, could have been even better. And that is encouraging for 2012. So I like our momentum and really we feel good about where we are and what we can get done in 2012. So, Trevor, with that let's turn it over to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith. Chanel, we are ready to take questions now.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Barclays Capital.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, good morning, guys. Guys, can you talk about your confidence in your margin guide in Energy? You have been talking about 50 basis points, but you put up a pretty big 4Q, which raises the base for 2011. And then you also raised your gas turbine shipments from 130 -- well, you were at 128 last quarter, now you are saying 137. So your mix shift is turning a little bit more negative and your base is higher.

So just talk about that 50 basis points, because that is a pretty big movement in our model.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think -- I will take a shot at it and let Jeff also add to it, Scott. I think if you look at the drag that we have had in Energy this year and the drag that we have had for the whole Company, it has been driven by our investments in R&D and global. As we have said we have taken that and we have got it in the run rate, and that is not going to continue to be a drag.

That was -- for the fourth quarter, it was 9/10 of a point on the whole Company; and for Energy it was a similar result.

The second drag that we have had in 2010 that you would expect were the acquisitions. You know, we have acquired these companies. We have only started to really integrate them. We don't have a full year.

That was a half a point of a drag on the Company in the fourth quarter. And our expectation is that we continue to get improvements in those acquisitions. We have got a lot of people working on both the top-line and the operating synergies, and so that is another factor that we have got to work.

Then finally the one drag that was just on the whole Company all the year long was wind. You know, on the total year it was 8/10 of a point for the whole Company.

As you can see, our wind expectation is that we are going to have a significant amount of volume. It is certainly not going to be an operating profit dollar drag like we saw in 2011. It was close to $700 million of operating profit drag dollars in 2011 on this business.

We don't expect anything like that. We expect actually to have an improvement in the wind performance in 2012, and we are going to have to work the mix issue associated with that.

But there is a lot of good factors. The services business has an incredible backlog. We have got to execute in the businesses like the Oil & Gas business on large projects and make sure we don't have any cost of quality issues or things like that, and the whole team is focused on it.

So it's important to us, it is important to investors. We have some good factors that don't repeat from 2011 that were headwinds that don't repeat as headwinds. But we need to execute. There's no question about it, Scott.

SCOTT DAVIS: That's helpful. Just as a follow-up, Keith, for you, I am calc-ing out about $10 billion of potential dry powder you will have in 2012 to either buy back stock, or do deals, or dividend, whatever you guys decide.

I mean I guess my first question is -- is that $10 billion going to pass your sniff test? And B, have your priorities to deploy that cash changed at all since your Analyst Day in December?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think 2012 we expect to have growth in cash flow from our Industrial businesses. We ended the year at $12 billion; we expect that to grow in 2012.

We already have increased the dividend for 2012, as you saw. Our expectation is that we are going to have a balanced capital allocation plan between buyback and M&A. We are going to look at opportunities and see what we do.

I think to get to a number like you are talking about, we really do need, first of all, the Capital dividend, and we would expect that over time we are going to get excess capital out of Capital, not just a 45% earnings. And we have to get some of that.

The other thing I would say is right now we are still planning on keeping about $8 billion of cash at the parent. We ended the year a little bit above that number just from a safe and secure and how we manage the Company for all sorts of unforeseen risks. So I would factor that into your math. But we expect to have a good cash year and have good capital allocation here.

JEFF IMMELT: I think we will have available cash in line with what we said in December. You know, we have got a $200 billion backlog. We don't need -- really we don't need acquisitions. I wouldn't look for us to do a big acquisition.

We have got a pretty full pipeline of new products. So I think the emphasis on dividend, reducing the float over time, those take a very high priority.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Good luck, guys. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. So, you guys gave us the service margin of 28.5%. I think you have given us a number that is close to that in the past.

I don't know what that margin refers to. There's a lot of different numbers that you refer to when you say margin. But backing into what the equipment margin is gets me to a low single digit number. Is that correct, the way to look at?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, equipment margins are in that range.

STEVE TUSA: Historically, how high have those margins gotten? Obviously, exclude the gas turbine bubble. They have been higher historically, correct?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. When you -- if we get to those kind of levels, the incremental margin associated with the gas turbine business was fantastic back in the late --

STEVE TUSA: Well, I guess excluding that, though.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think if we -- right now you're looking at a thermal business that is -- the market actually is pretty good globally. For the 50 gas turbine orders in the fourth quarter is pretty good.

But there is still excess capacity. I think if you see a tightening in that market, you are going to be able to get incremental margins on the equipment side. I think that is going to be a good factor for us.

But right now you are still seeing, obviously, price erosion when you look at the orders price index that we have. But the commitment levels that we are seeing are starting to stabilize. And I think Jeff said that will roll into the end of '12 and into '13 at much better margins for us from an equipment perspective.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, we ought to get improving equipment margins as part of the 50 basis points improvement in 2012 versus 2011.

STEVE TUSA: Right. So longer-term, you have got $60 billion-ish of revenue that is really sitting there dramatically under-earning at this stage given the level of volume you are doing.

KEITH SHERIN: I think there is another -- you know, if you look, there is another factor maybe to think about, is Aviation. We are really in the early launch phases around the GEnx, and that will continue to improve as well. We have got to get up to the run rate in terms of the number of engines, but clearly the launch engines are the worst ones in terms of cost plus price.

We are going to work our way into a different place in Aviation. GEnx will be probably one of the bigger factors.

STEVE TUSA: Right. Then one more question just on consumer. It was down sequentially. Is that just some Europe headwind flowing through? I know the provision was also up a little bit on the GE Capital income statement.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the main thing in the quarter for consumer that I would think about was the Greek bond impairment was in the consumer segment.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, because delinquencies, non-earnings, all continue to head in the right direction.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the main point we had in the quarter -- if you do 3Q to 4Q it would be the Greek bonds. The asset quality performance was good. You do put up a little bit of provision as we had asset growth, Steve, 3Q to 4Q.

STEVE TUSA: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Hey, so just the first question on the reorganization of GECS and GECC into GE Capital. When you think about how the Fed is looking at -- or when you think about how you would think about what makes sense in terms of the right entity, we have talked about the difference in coverage and reserves for GECC versus GECS.

Is there any reason to believe this wouldn't make it more likely that GECS would be the entity to look at, as opposed to GECC?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, exactly. I think all we are doing is sort of a reverse merger, Steve. If you look at what we are doing is we are putting GECS back under GECC. So the total now will be GECS.

If you look at our current reporting, when you see things like Tier 1 Capital at 9.9% for GE Capital Services, going forward that will be 9.9% for GE Capital. We're going to have one entity, and it is going to be the top level. But we're going to call it GE Capital.

STEVEN WINOKER: So this essentially removes even the possibility that GECC would have been something that regulators might have considered?

KEITH SHERIN: That's right. I think at the end of the day our expectations were -- and it hasn't been finally decided -- were that the total Financial Services assets of the Company would be regulated. This isn't something the Fed made us do, but I think it does simplify everything and make it clearer for investors.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and you said this is not something that was based on input from regulators?

KEITH SHERIN: That's correct.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay.

JEFF IMMELT: No. This goes back almost 20 years, Steve, and I think it just simplifies it for our equity investors and for our bondholders.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and you talked about lower debt issuance. Can you quantify that a little bit?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we will have to see how we go through the year. We give a range of $425 billion to $440 billion. As we go through the year, we will look at the composition.

Will we be able to -- I want to see how the long-term debt markets look. We want to look at CP. We will look at alternative funding. It is going to depend upon those factors.

But in total, if you got all the way down to the $425 billion, you would expect to have a combination of lower CP and long-term financing.

JEFF IMMELT: And the margins, Steve, are still good. The earnings power is still good. I think what we have said to you guys is we've got more than $70 billion of what we call red assets. The market in the US is healthy for that kind of stuff.

So I think that is -- we are just confident that -- in our earnings power, and the ENI progress I think is a good thing for investors.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then maybe just one final one. 15 months ago or so when you took the last Shinsei reserve, I think we all asked the question of -- how do we know that that was the right number and that that was it? And we talked about frequency and severity. How do we know that this is the right number and that this is it?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it is our best estimate. You are right. We are dealing with a tail of a liability here that has got a lot of volatility.

I think the Takefuji bankruptcy wasn't something that we foresaw when we put up that reserve 15 months ago. This is our first adjustment in 15 months. We have done a lot of statistical analysis, and we have got a dedicated team on the ground managing these claims.

It is our best estimate as of today based on the information we have on both claims volume and severity. And we are just going to have to continue to watch it. I think --

JEFF IMMELT: And the claims volume is heading down.

KEITH SHERIN: The claims volume is going down and December was better than what we had forecast, a little bit. But it is just such a long-tail liability and we're just going to have to watch it.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Good morning. You talked about, Keith, talked about some push outs in Energy, I think mainly in wind. Can you maybe just quantify that versus just your plan? And is there any evidence that there is more push outs?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, from September when we laid out the Energy goals and where we were heading into the year, I would say there's a number of factors that affected our Energy revenue. We had about $400 million that I would put in the push out category. About half of that is wind.

We had wind units in Canada that didn't get to revenue that we thought we were going to get, that will come in '12. We also had some push outs on installations for about another 200. So, there is about $400 million of things that we did not record that we thought we were going to and that moved into the next year.

We had about $200 million from FX from the beginning of the quarter. The dollar was much stronger than we thought, so that impacted us a little bit versus our September estimate.

And we had some weakness in our Industrial systems business more than we thought, probably another $100 million. So those are kind of the things that we see versus where we were in September in the Energy business.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's really helpful. Then on the Energy pricing, it looks like it ticked down again versus 3Q. I think 3Q was down 1.8 and last quarter it was down 4.4, I think you said, Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: Say the numbers you had again.

NIGEL COE: I think it was 1.8 last quarter on Energy equipment orders pricing, and this quarter it was 4.4?

KEITH SHERIN: That's correct.

NIGEL COE: Does that make the goal of keeping Energy margins flat next year more difficult?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we have considered that in what we put together as our plan. I think the team does have to manage through that margin pressure, as we showed you on the chart for 2012. We are going to have to have good execution on inflation and deflation and global sourcing.

We have got to grow our service business, and we have got to have good cost of quality and execution on our projects. But we have factored that in.

Our guys, when we put the plan together, that is not worse than what they were expecting. But it is pressure obviously in 2012, and we think we have accounted for it.

NIGEL COE: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: But this is a big deal, getting Energy to go positive margins, just like Scott said and what you said. This is something the team is really focused on.

NIGEL COE: Sure. Then finally, obviously, you're limited in what you can say about the Fed review, but it sounds like [to start off] you understand the business and understanding the funding model. Can you maybe give some color in terms of where they are focusing right now?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. You know, they have been with us for around six months now, the Fed. I think without any specifics they are working on the things you would expect them to be working on.

They are looking at our risk systems and risk teams, our risk models. They are looking at our capital levels, they are looking at our liquidity and our liquidity risk management.

We're working cooperatively with them. We are in a dialogue.

They know we'd like to restart the dividend, and we have a process going on to review what they need to be able to help make a decision on that. And it is going at their pace, I would say.

So it is a lot of work. It is a ton of oversight, and we're committed to working constructively with them. At the end of the day, as soon as we can give you more information about that we will.

JEFF IMMELT: Our macro benchmarks look pretty good. I mean when you look at our Tier 1 Capital ratios and things like that. So I think we are pleased with how we finished the year. We are pleased with the operating results at GE Capital, and ultimately, that is the proof of the pudding ultimately, so that is what we want to focus on.

We are in a process that we just don't control. We're working as hard as we can, and we will give you as much as we can when we can.

NIGEL COE: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. Yes, my first question was in terms of the Energy business. You and Alstom have both had decent orders in that for the December quarter. Their outlook is fairly positive for March as well.

But looking at your gas turbine volumes, you had an acceleration and a decline in thermal pricing in Q4 versus Q3. So I wondered if there is a sense in which, although on the surface infrastructure projects are going ahead, you're actually finding that there are some delays going on; and so you priced maybe slightly more cheaper than normal just to make sure you got decent volumes in Q4 in terms of order intake.

Because I think your thermal pricing was down in Q3 on the order side about 7 or 8; and now it's down around 12.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Julian, some of this is just geographic mix of where the orders come from. I think Saudi tends to be slightly lower price, and there were some big orders there in the quarter, stuff like that. But again, I go back to what we have said in the past which is -- first, we start with commitments; then we go to orders.

I would say the pricing and commitment seems to be stabilizing. That tends to be the leading indicator of pricing.

But I think the difference between Q3 and Q4 is as much mix-driven as it is any more intensity in the marketplace. As Keith said earlier, there is a lot of interest. There is a lot of interest in gas turbines really on a global basis.

Up the 50 orders that we took in Q4 I think only two were in the US, something like that. So we haven't even really seen much out of the US yet.

So I would say the commitment is a good leading indicator for '13. And what we are seeing in '12 is no different than what we really expected.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks. Then secondly on Healthcare, the profits are down there. I was intrigued to see the US, the comments around the US being fairly weak. I guess Philips said the US was good for them, obviously with a very weak Europe though.

So I guess how confident are you that Healthcare profits can grow in '12 given you have got quite a high revenue growth base from the first half of 2011? And obviously there's persistent price deflation just by nature in the healthcare market.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, when you look at the market in Q3, which is the last time we really have NEMA data, it was I think flat to up a couple points. We gained --

KEITH SHERIN: About 3 points.

JEFF IMMELT: A couple points a share, 3 points a share in Q3. So we haven't really seen the market data yet in the US. Our expectation for the US market is flattish in 2012 and that is what we are building -- have built our plan around.

We are going to restructure Europe, which has already begun. We have got excellent emerging-market revenue growth which I think is both profitable and fuels the earnings. And then life sciences remains strong.

So our target for Healthcare is revenue in the single-digit range and earnings in the single-digit range for next year. We didn't see anything as we closed the year that says that shouldn't be where the goals remain.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. Hey, so can I ask you to fill out I guess the 50 gas turbines orders a little more? You said a big Saudi, very little US. Maybe just a little bit more how that shakes out and what you are seeing in the different global markets. And do you expect that mix to change in '12?

KEITH SHERIN: Boy, it is incredibly spread out, Shannon. We had four in Australia, one in Canada, four in China, one in Colombia, six in Egypt, five in Iraq, one in Japan, one in Korea, two in Russia, 13 in Saudi Arabia. It is just spread out. It is global activity and our teams are covering it.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Shannon, gas is really the fuel of choice. I would say that with more confidence today than even in the past, and the US hasn't really started yet. So some day there is going to be a US market.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. How about just a little bit more on Europe? You mentioned seeing more weakness in December. What is the pace of weakening that you are seeing?

Are you seeing things accelerate to the downside? Or maybe a little color on what you are seeing over the last six weeks or so.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the one that you really saw directly was in Healthcare Europe was soft. Our orders in Healthcare were down 10% in the fourth quarter. Our revenues were down 7%.

That is consistent with the framework Jeff talked about in Healthcare. But when you are dealing with governments and reimbursements and austerity programs, that is probably what we expect to see.

Across GE Capital, we actually had pretty good performance. Our asset quality metrics across Europe, across both commercial and consumer businesses improved in the quarter on delinquency, 30-day delinquencies and non-earnings. So the team there continues to do a good job managing their book.

So I think Healthcare is the one we saw a little; we saw a little bit in Industrial systems. But not more than we expected.

JEFF IMMELT: I don't think Europe was really worse than what we expected. I think we are preparing for recession and that is what we expect. I think encouragingly, it looks like there is more liquidity in the market now than there probably was even 30 days ago.

But we will see how it all shakes out. We are ready for a tougher environment.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Investment Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning. Hey, I was hoping we could circle back to the newer, lower target for ENI at GE Capital. I know that is a welcome news on a risk management standpoint, and you hinted about it in the December meeting. The fact you are not lowering any of the framework for GE Capital suggests that some of this progress on cutting the balance sheet debt would come from the non-core assets.

Jeff, you hinted at it, said there's a more open or willing market for that. Could you just take us through where the cutting and the reduction might come from, and the time frame?

JEFF IMMELT: First, Deane, I would say that revenue for Capital in '12, again with lower ENI will probably be down. It is always hard to forecast revenue in GE Capital, but that is the one correction I would make. I think earnings we think are still on track.

But I think, you know, one of the big ones is what Keith talked about in commercial real estate. There is just a lot more liquidity for commercial real estate.

I think the guys were down for the year almost more than $10 billion of ENI for the year. So I think you can see that very well in commercial real estate.

Then I think there are just some other portfolios that are small in the US that we think are going to be able to whittle away at the red assets. At the same time, incoming margins remain good, and we have got a good origination team. So we think we can grow where we want to grow and continue to execute on the red asset plan.

KEITH SHERIN: You know the plan we laid out, Deane, as Jeff said was to lower the red assets. If you look at 2011, our ending net investment on a reported basis was down $26 billion. It is down $32 billion if you include things that end up getting transferred into disc operations -- discontinued operations -- and was taken out of the original numbers.

So $32 billion last year of shrinkage. $27 billion of that came from what we considered red assets. And we have still got $80 billion of red assets.

So I think the team is going to continue to run that off and we're going to continue to invest in the green assets. Just based on the fact that we are $20 billion ahead of plan on the ENI shrinkage plan, our reality is probably in 2012 we are going to be smaller.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Is there any change in the expected contribution from GE Capital to earnings? Still that 30% to 40% and likely at the lower end?

KEITH SHERIN: I would keep it there for now.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: I mean, the fourth quarter was about 40%. That is where we are right now on a run rate kind off; so you have got to -- we will have to see how we do in 2012, but we are not changing that target.

JEFF IMMELT: I would keep it there for now. Again, I come back, Deane, and say the strategic priority -- job one for the GE team in 2012 is to grow the Industrial earnings more than 10%. And that in the end is a laserlike focus that we have got, and I like the backlog we have to do it with.

DEANE DRAY: Great. Just last question for me is on cash flow. It's a bit stronger than what we were looking for in the fourth quarter. We had expected a little bit more of a working capital build.

Were the pushouts the reason you didn't have to do that? Or just true that up for us if you could.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, probably your expectation came with the fact that through three quarters we had built some inventory and we had a little more working capital than we wanted in our plan. And, we did a -- the teams did a great job in the fourth quarter drawing down that inventory.

Our working capital use for the year was only $700 million on double-digit revenue growth. And we increased our turnover by a 10th of a point. So the teams did do a good job in working capital.

I think it was a -- we were behind at the end of third quarter year-to-date, and we caught up and actually exceeded where we were expecting to be in the fourth quarter. So, progress was down a little over $1 billion, and we only use $700 million of working capital while growing the Industrial business 14%. It was a pretty good year.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Good morning. Wanted to just continue down this path of changes to the 2012 outlook at the margin relative to December, and maybe start over on the Capital side. Keith, I wonder; did the pre-provision performance at Capital in the fourth quarter, how did that perform versus your expectations?

KEITH SHERIN: Capital came in a little better than we wanted in total. I don't have any specifics around pre-provision that came to mind in getting ready for today, Terry.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. So in terms of the deltas --

KEITH SHERIN: Something specific you are looking for?

TERRY DARLING: No, just in terms of the deltas for '12, beyond the faster turnover of the red assets, areas for upside to the Capital framework I am curious about.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, if you look there really hasn't been a change in the fourth quarter on that. As Jeff said the only change there would be, we will probably have the revenue be a little lower.

But you look, the margins are good. We're going to have continued significant improvements in real estate; that is our expectation. Losses will be slightly better; they are close to the run rate.

Those would be some of the bigger drivers that we expect in 2012.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then I will take a shot at this, one more shot at this Energy horse here. The lower US natural gas prices impact on your short-cycle Oil & Gas business. I know it is not a big part of the Company, but pretty high margins there. What are you seeing in terms of that risk element?

KEITH SHERIN: I haven't seen anything specifically. The lower natural gas prices make it an attractive fuel, obviously.

TERRY DARLING: Maybe more on the drilling side.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the drilling and production, we have had tremendous service orders that I saw in the quarter. I didn't see anything unusual in the equipment side.

TERRY DARLING: On the equipment side itself?

KEITH SHERIN: We're still working on integrating everything we did with Wood Group, and that gives us much more presence on the land-based drilling and production. But I didn't see anything unusual in the order base.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and then just a couple points of clarification. On your comments on the Fed review, obviously tough to characterize. But I guess can one interpret that as timing perhaps has shifted a little further out in terms of when you might anticipate things coming to a conclusion there? Is that fair?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, what did we want? We wanted to do the dividends starting with the year. And as a result of being with the Fed we haven't been able to do that.

It is really just something we don't control. I really haven't ever laid out a timing and they haven't given us a timing. We just are going to continue to work with them.

Our goal is to do the dividend in 2012. We haven't changed that goal, and we think we are going to be able to achieve what we said. But the timing is -- we haven't given one and it hasn't changed for us. We're just working with them constructively.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then just lastly, any other items you want to call out for people to note with regards to the 1Q year-over-year comparisons? You called out the days issues; that is pretty clear. Anything else that you want to call out there?

For instance you saw only $0.03 of restructuring in 4Q. You're talking about a range of $0.03 to $0.04. Do you have a heavier restructure in the first quarter of '12 over '11? Any other items like that you want to call out?

KEITH SHERIN: I think if I look at first-quarter '11, I don't see anything unusual in this year's first-quarter '11. If you look at last year, you have got to remember we had the NBCU gain. And then in Capital we had the large gain from the Garanti sale.

So I think those are things that we're working through comparing to. But in this year I don't have anything that I would call out.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a little more detail on Energy pricing, if we could. Jeff, could you elaborate a little bit on your comment about things firming up in commitments?

And when would you expect price on orders to inflect? Do you think that is a second-half '12 event?

JEFF IMMELT: So again, Jeff, I think when we look at commitments, the pricing has stabilized. That tends to be, let's say, anywhere from a six-month to an 18-month cycle.

So I think the lead indicators suggest that the equipment pricing, as it goes into orders, is going to start stabilizing. Then, it goes from orders to revenue, so that is not necessarily a different scenario than what we have talked about in the past, I don't think.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Right. And, Keith, I may have missed it; but can you give us the price in revenues in the quarter in Energy, thermal, renewables, all-in?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the total was down 1%, I don't have the split between the pieces. The total for Energy selling price was 1% down.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: All right.

KEITH SHERIN: For the Company, it was 0.5% down, in total.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Okay, all right. That's all for me. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. Looking at -- through the initial resumption of GE Capital dividend, but noting the ENI target is coming down, is it reasonable to expect that future GE Capital payout ratio could be well above the historical payout ratios?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, our goal that we have laid out is that we would like to have GE Capital pay the same percent of its earnings that GE pays to its shareholders. So, we're at about a 45% payout ratio, and that would be our goal.

Now, sometimes in the financial services world, the discussion is that there is a 33% or 30% payout ratio at the banks, but there is also buybacks on top of that. GE Capital doesn't have that equivalent of a buyback.

So I think that is a reasonable expectation. That is what we are working on, is to start with a 45% of GE Capital's earnings back to the parent, which would be above historical.

The second thing that I think that we are thinking about is, as we shrink GE Capital, as we built up the capital base, we have excess capital we believe on top of whatever the target of capital that regulators are going to require for Tier 1 for a very large, important financial institution.

We haven't formally been notified that we are a SIFI. We aren't under anybody's Basel framework yet. But we are reporting like we will be, and we believe we have capital levels that will exceed what the targets are that the banks will be held to.

And our objective as we shrink GE Capital is to dividend that excess capital back to the parents. Over the next several years that could be several billions of dollars.

So that is our global. We will have to see how we do as we work with the Fed, but that is our goal.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, and next question. Answer might be obvious, but I will ask it anyway. Are you buying any properties in CRE?

KEITH SHERIN: We are not buying any properties. We have done some debt investing, but we are not buying any properties. We are running the equity book down.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay. Then lastly, with the double-digits earnings framework for both Capital and Industrial, are you biased to one exceeding the other? Or too close to call?

JEFF IMMELT: No bias. We want to execute well and have a good year.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So, on the Energy service front, earlier this year, the federal court stayed the CSAPR rules, which we had expected to shift more fuel switching from coal to gas. Does that impact your outlook on the service side at all for this year?

KEITH SHERIN: I couldn't tell you. I am not familiar with that, and I would have to get -- we will have to get back to you on that, Jason.

JEFF IMMELT: I do think the gas power is running harder. There is no doubt about it. But I don't know that that specific change is material in the way we think about financials for the year.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. Balance of plant revenue has come up when we are talking about the Energy margins, I think the last two quarters. Last quarter it was a bit of a headwind, or maybe more than a bit of a headwind. This quarter it sounds like a year-over-year comp basis it actually helped you.

Can you give us a little bit more quantification of how much of a difference that made? Is that just volatility that we just have to live with given the nature of the business?

KEITH SHERIN: The only thing I have is that we were about $100 million lower on balance of plant in the quarter. So, obviously there was no margin release associated with that. It did help the margin rates a little bit, but it also contributes to lower revenue.

JASON FELDMAN: Right.

KEITH SHERIN: That is the only number I had.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg, Langenberg and Company.

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, LANGENBERG AND COMPANY: Thank you very much. Hey, guys. Good morning. Two questions. The first one is with respect to the merger of GE Capital, GECC. You're not a company that tends to let things lay for like 20 years. So, until recently, there was a reason to have that structure.

Just touch on what operational and/or tax benefits have gone away with going from two to one, two structures to one.

Then the second part is how much cost-out do you think you can get to offset the $300 million of additional spending you need to do in the new financial world? That is the core question.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, let me start with the first one. You know, there was a good logic for GE Capital Services. We had a broker-dealer, Kidder Peabody; we had significant insurance operations, both what is now Genworth that we call GEFA and also ERC.

So the insurance operations, the reinsurance operations, and the Kidder Peabody were originally under GECS on the other side of the ownership; and then GECC was on the other side as part of the assets of GE Capital Services. But the point is that over time, as we have sold all the insurance businesses, as we got out of Kidder and the broker-dealer, really the difference between GECS and GECC is almost insignificant.

We have about $30 billion of investment securities and we will had the GE Capital team, Mike Neal and Jeff Bornstein and Bill Cary and those guys, manage that now. There is an insignificant change in our tax outlook as a result of this merger.

So really it is just a collapse of two SEC registrants. Over time it had a purpose, and today it has less of a purpose and actually just provides kind of confusion.

In terms of cost, the GE Capital team has done a great job on SG&A. Our SG&A was actually down in 2011 despite the fact that we are investing like crazy on the regulatory side. So they are getting good productivity in their back office and they continue to do a good job managing their costs.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: So in terms of collapsing two into one, is there a significant incremental cost to come out once the two structures go away?

KEITH SHERIN: No, I think it is really -- in some of the accounting consolidation and reporting, it will simplify their life. But there is not a big cost structure at GECS.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay. Then just the last question, with Aerospace you called out some prebuy in the third quarter, which is not something I had really heard about from other aerospace players. Just looking at it simplistically, are you suggesting that there was a good $250 million of prebuy in the third quarter on the Aerospace side?

KEITH SHERIN: It would have been orders for spare parts. I don't think that would have showed up in their cash flow yet. They are ordering, so we report our average daily order rate. I can't tell you what the timing of when they actually took that was. But it was $29 million a day or something -- $27 million a day in the third quarter, up 20%.

We didn't expect it to be that high. And basically they are just getting in, in advance of our November price increase. So in terms of when they actually took that material, that is not something I have.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay.

JEFF IMMELT: Our shipment rates in the third quarter were nowhere near as high as that, so it really would have been ordering.

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay, okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Bank of America.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, guys. Hey, Keith, just to clarify, do any of the quarters in '12 have this days issue as it pertains to the compares versus '11? I'm just going back to Terry's question.

KEITH SHERIN: I asked the same question yesterday, and I have been assured that we are on a normal calendar comparison in 2012.

JOHN INCH: Yes, okay.

KEITH SHERIN: Happy to report, John.

JOHN INCH: Right, no that clears up that. Then back to the restructuring, again I don't want to split hairs. I thought the fourth quarter was maybe going to be $0.03 to $0.04; you did $0.02. Does that imply that there is frontloaded restructuring this year?

And maybe, Keith, if you could scope out what your thoughts are vis-a-vis restructuring in Europe. I know you talked about Healthcare restructuring; but is half of this going to be Europe? Front-half weighted? Just anything you could maybe talk about.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I would say first of all, what we talked about in December, we have a category -- restructuring and other charges; that was going to be about $0.03, and that is $0.03 to $0.04, and we did $0.03.

It is not that we really pushed anything out. We work with the teams on what projects can they identify that have good a payback, and can they execute. And we ended up with the projects we identified.

I would say over half of the projects that we funded in the fourth quarter are related to Europe in Healthcare and Energy. If you look at going forward in 2012 in our plan, on a normal quarter we are somewhere around $100 million of restructuring in a quarter, and our plan is kind of built assuming that type of run rate.

Now, if we have more good projects, we may pull some in. We reserve the right.

But just basically from a planning and how we talked about that $3 billion of cost in the corporate line, that is how you should think about it, John.

JOHN INCH: Okay, so linearly spread throughout the year though?

KEITH SHERIN: So far, yes.

JOHN INCH: Okay, just lastly, Keith, the provisions for the Capital were relatively flat sequentially. What has been happening to provisions in Europe?

And maybe you could give us just in -- I didn't see it in the supplemental. What was the ending Financial asset base in Europe? I think it was 132 or something in the third quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: I think Europe was down a little bit, I don't have the exact number. We will get it to you.

And I don't separate provisions by region. I have it by business.

Provisions were -- if you look, reserves came down about $300 million. Some of that was writeoffs greater than provision; some of that was FX; and provisions were flat in Europe.

JOHN INCH: Yes, so the question is really you are not really seeing incremental losses associated with (multiple speakers)?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, actually, no; as I said the asset quality was actually better. The only thing in Europe that was unusual, I would say, was two things. One is the Greek bonds. And the second thing, we put up some money in Hungary for mortgages.

JOHN INCH: Right. Thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: We have no more questions. I will turn it back over to you, Trevor.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, Chanel. Five wrap-up comments to close here.

The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today.

Two announcements to make. First, we will host our global growth investor meeting on March 6 and 7 in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. We hope you can join us. We will have a full agenda that we will be getting out next week on that, and it is pretty packed. So we hope to see everybody there.

Second, our first-quarter 2012 earnings webcast will be on April 20. As always, we will be available to take your questions. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that concludes the presentation. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company | irevs : Internal Revenue Service
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | girs : Internal Revenue Service | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120203e81k0015s
  


 HD
 Q3  2011  General Electric  Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,686 words
   PD
21 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Chanel and I will your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

   TD
I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VICE PRESIDENT, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We're pleased to host today's third-quarter 2011 earnings webcast. Regarding materials for this webcast, we issued a press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks. Good morning, everybody. We had a solid quarter in third quarter with earnings up 11%. Growth was fairly broad-based. Organic revenue growth was 8% and orders were very strong. Energy, which has been a drag so far this year, should turn positive in fourth quarter.

The environment was more volatile particularly in Europe and with US housing and this had a negative impact on both healthcare and appliances. However, emerging market growth was very strong. We have a strong balance sheet and we continue to execute a balanced capital allocation plan.

Significantly, we retired the Berkshire preferred shares and this will improve EPS by $0.03 in 2012. So in all it was a good quarter in a volatile environment.

Orders grew by 16% in the quarter, which is a good indicator for the future. Organic orders growth was 6%. Order pricing is flat versus previous year, which is a positive sign. We ended the quarter with $191 billion of backlog, and this is the highest in our history. Our market momentum gives us confidence in solid organic growth going forward in 2012 and beyond. So overall, we think a very good orders story.

For growth, our growth investments are paying off with higher market share. Our revenue and growth markets are up 24% year-to-date. We have had eight of nine regions experiencing 20% plus growth. Services growth year to date is up 15% and we see continued momentum in this important space.

Our investment in R&D is paying off with more launches in important segments and we are seeing great success in energy behind the Flex 50 and new gas engines. Aviation is winning across the board and we enter the fourth quarter with a strong NPI pipeline in both healthcare and appliances. So third-quarter industrial revenue organic growth of 8% is -- we consider to be very strong.

Margins hit a low for the year in the third quarter. We expect improvement in fourth quarter. Energy is the big driver. In the quarter, we shipped wind and thermal units with pricing below last year. We see that improving for 2012.

Our R&D spend is normalizing and should decline as a percent of revenue in 2012. Meanwhile acquisitions and services are improving.

As we said in a second-quarter call, we've seen margins come in below our expectations for 2011 but we now see solid margin growth in 2012, so that really is the margin story.

For cash, we see CFOA coming in about $12 billion for 2011. We have more working capital in line with higher growth. As I said earlier, we have executed on a balanced capital allocation plan. In the quarter, we bought $1 billion of stock. We completed the Converteam acquisition and we have now retired the preferred shares on October 17. So between the Berkshire preferred and the buyback of the quarter that's about $4 billion. We end the quarter with $91 billion of cash on the balance sheet, so extremely strong and liquid balance sheet.

In GE Capital, we've given this update in the past. I just wanted to give you an update on GE Capital funding and capital levels. With the $3 billion of debt we did last week we have substantially completed our 2011 long-term borrowing. We will continue to do some reverse inquiries throughout the year. We kept our commercial paper flat and with $83 billion of cash, we are really in a great position for our 2012 maturities.

As you know, the long-term debt maturities go down to $35 billion for 2013 and beyond so we have a much different funding profile. With earnings in a smaller GE Capital, our Tier 1 common went to 11%, so we are ahead of plan on shrinking GE Capital, leaving us with dry powder for bulk origination opportunities in the future. So this is really I think at GE Capital a very good and strong story.

So we've got really strong liquidity and capital positions and the GE Capital teams did a great job.

So with that, let me turn it over to Keith to go through more details on the operations of the Company.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Jeff. I will start with a third-quarter summary. We had continuing operations revenues of $35.4 billion which were flat, industrial sales of $23.2 billion were reported, down 2%. However as you can see from the notes on the bottom of the page if you exclude the impact of not having NBC revenues, revenues were up 12% in total. That's also reflected in the segment results on the bottom on the right size. You can see the industrial revenues.

Financial services revenues of $12 billion were up 1% and the earnings in EPS reporting for the quarter is a little complicated this quarter so we thought we would list all the iterations and then let me explain them line by line.

First is the measure that most analysts and investors and the GE management team use. We earned $3.4 billion of operating earnings, which was up 11%. We earned $0.31 of EPS also up 11% and here's where retiring the Berkshire preferred comes in.

We made the commitment to retire the preferred in September. That resulted in an impact to equity for a preferred dividend which was the difference between the carrying value we had on our books and the redemption value that we paid for the preferred as outlined in our 10-Ks. So operating EPS including this preferred impact was reduced by $0.08 and with some rounding, that's the line that says $0.24 of EPS including the redemption of the preferred.

Next is continuing EPS of $0.22. The only adjustment there is you include the non-operating pension. And the next is net earnings of $3.2 billion, which includes discontinued operations. That's up 57% reflecting the improvement from last year's charge of discontinued ops.

Finally, net EPS of $0.22, up 22%. That includes everything. That is with discontinued ops and the impact of the preferred.

Jeff covered the cash flow of $6.5 billion. The third quarter was consistent with the first half. For taxes on a year-to-date basis, our consolidated tax was 34% or 18% if you take out the highly taxed NBCU gain from the first quarter. We previously indicated that we expected a low 20s GE rate for the year excluding the NBCU gain. We now expect the GE rate to be 19% to 20% for the year. Since it was above 20% in the first half, the third quarter is lower, 18%, and that averages to the 20% year-to-date rate.

The GE Capital rates, 14% on a year-to-date basis, that rate is up significantly from 2010 due to the higher pretax income. We had previously indicated a GECS tax rate for the year in the high teens but our current view is 12% to 14%. While the tax benefits are down from 2010, in the third quarter international benefits increased so that our run rate of total tax benefits went from about $350 million per quarter as of Q2 to about $400 million per quarter now. And because our view of the total year reflects those higher tax benefits we needed to book to a lower rate in the third quarter decrease in the third quarter rate by about 10 points.

As we have said before, we have the '06 and '07 audit that's close to completion. We also have other planning that could affect our rate in the fourth quarter relative to our current year total framework of 19% to 20% for GE and 12% to 14% for GE Capital.

On the right side, you can see the segment results. Industrial revenues were up 19%, driven by transportation and energy. Industrial segment profit of $3.2 million was down 1%. GE Capital earnings were up 79%, driving the overall segment earnings up 15%. I will cover each of the segments in more detail as we go through this morning.

Before I get to the businesses, I will cover the other items page. On the positive side, we have two items. First we had a true up this quarter to our NBCU gain from Q1. The valuation of our initial 49% investment was finalized with outside advisers resulting in $131 million after-tax gain. That was recorded at corporate.

We also realized a $98 million after-tax gain from the sale of the Unison rings business, which was recorded in our aviation segment results.

We also had some one-time costs in the third quarter. First, we had $77 million of after-tax costs resulting from the termination of two supply arrangements. Those were also recorded in the aviation segment and we had $60 million of after-tax costs related to our M&A, things like transaction costs, severance, and inventory step up and we have $50 million of after-tax restructuring in corporate principally for healthcare and energy. So there were offsetting items in corporate and there were offsetting items in the aviation segment in the third quarter.

I'm going to start the businesses with the energy. Energy infrastructure was less negative in third quarter in terms of earnings growth. However, the energy results in 3Q still more than offset the profit growth in oil and gas. For energy, we saw very strong orders growth especially in equipment. Overall, the orders of $8.6 billion were up 15%. Equipment orders of $4.7 billion were up 56%. They are up 38% even excluding the impact of M&A.

Renewable orders at $1.8 billion were up 68%. We had orders for 781 wind turbines versus 501 last year. We had large orders in the US, Brazil, Romania, and Canada. Air derivative orders of $600 million were up 2X over last year. Industrial solution orders of $780 million were up 29% and the one negative was thermal orders of $400 million, they were down 49%. We had orders for 16 gas turbines versus 19 last year but the commitment activity that we see remains strong.

Order price index was down 1.7%. Renewable orders was down 4.2% and thermal orders price was down 7.5%. Service orders in the quarter of $3.9 billion were down 12%. We had a $550 million order from Calpine in the third quarter of last year that did not repeat. The primary driver of the v. Partially offsetting that, our Energy Services adjacency orders of $2.8 billion were up 6%.

Revenues of $8.5 billion were up 25%. That was driven by the strong volume. Ten points of the growth came from the new acquisitions.

Thermal revenue was up 60% in the quarter. We shipped 27 gas turbines versus 24 last year. We also had four more steam turbines. We had 21 more generators and we had $280 million more balance of plant revenue at low margins, which was driving the revenue in total.

Renewables revenue of $1.3 billion was down 6%. We shipped 633 wind turbines versus 616 last year. Some of the revenue was from mix but pricing was down 9% or about $130 million in the quarter. Service revenues of $4 billion were up 13% ex the acquisitions.

For segment profit, we earned $1.2 billion. That was down 12%. We earned $60 million in the new energy acquisitions and excluding that, profit was down about $230 million. The main driver continued to be the wind business. That was down over $200 million in the quarter and we also had a drag from our continued investment in programs and global growth. So now we continue to see the pressure from the renewables business and I will show you the future energy outlook on the next page.

On the right side, we also want to cover oil and gas. We continue to experience very strong growth organically plus we have some growth from the recent acquisitions and some impact from the weaker dollar in the third quarter. Orders of $3 billion were up 77%, 34 points of that growth came from the M&A, 8 points from FX, so still organic orders in the segment were up 35%.

Equipment orders were very strong, up 83% ex M&A. We saw turbo machinery orders up 33% and drilling and production was up 2.6 times. Service orders were up 13% in the quarter ex M&A. So a good, strong organic quarter in oil and gas.

Orders price index was basically flat at negative 0.1% in the quarter and revenue of $2.5 billion was up 42%, up 17% ex the M&A. Equipment revenue was up 23%, service revenue was up 10%, and segment profit of $319 million was up 11%. That was driven by the impact of the acquisitions plus a strong volume partially offset by pricing and our global growth investments.

On the next page, I just want to give you an update on the outlook for energy infrastructure for the fourth quarter. Third quarter year to date we've earned $4.4 billion, which is down 12%. At the second-quarter earnings call we showed you the growth in volume from the first half to the second half. Lots of that volume was in the fourth quarter. We also said we expected second-half profit to grow, so we are planning on a strong fourth quarter for energy.

And if you look at the chart, the drivers are listed on the right side here. You can see the volumes and these units are in backlog so down the left side wind turbines will be up 35%, gas turbines will be up 70%, steam turbines will be about flat and aero will be down slightly. This is going to be a big volume quarter for the energy team.

We are also experiencing strong outages and overhauls for the service business. Our spending levels on programs will not be a drag on margins in the fourth quarter and we will have a full quarter of all our acquisitions and the acquisitions continue to perform.

So the positive energy growth starts in the fourth quarter. We looking forward to that and we expect it to continue into 2012.

Next is aviation. The aviation team had another strong quarter in Q3. Orders of $5.7 billion were up 14%. Commercial engine orders of $1.9 billion were up 18% driven by GE90. Military engine orders, $528 million, were also up 15%. The equipment orders price was up 1.5% and we ended the quarter with a backlog of $21 billion, up 7% versus last year.

Service orders of $2.9 billion were up 18%, driven by strong spares. Our commercial spare parts orders were $27 million per day, which was up 21%, and military services were up 11%. Revenue of $4.8 billion in the quarter was up 10% driven by the equipment volume. It was up 11% primarily from an increase in commercial engine shipments, which were up 16%.

We shipped 102 more units in Q3, driven by CFM and small commercial. We shipped 28 GEnx engines in Q3 and that volume nearly doubles in Q4 as both the 787 and the 747 with GE engines begin deliveries to customers.

Service revenues were up 9%, driven by the strong spares, up 11%, and partially offset by military, which was down 2% in the quarter.

The segment profit of $862 million was up 7%; that was driven by the strong volume. We had a positive value gap and the net benefit of the transactions that I covered on the other items page, partially offset by higher R&D and the new engine launch costs.

For transportation, the business also had another strong quarter in Q3. Orders of $1 billion were down 28%, driven by no counterparts at two large multiyear orders last year. Equipment orders of $439 million were down 55%. Included in that, there were bright spots. Mining orders of $193 million were up 54% and the equipment backlog in total is very strong, closed at $3.9 billion, up 2% over last year.

Service orders of $572 million were up 30% and the revenues were $1.3 billion were up 48%, driven by the higher volume. We shipped 169 locomotives versus 96 last year. That drove the equipment revenues up 64%. And service revenues were up 30% on strong parts sales.

Segment profit of $196 million was up 94% over last year driven by the higher volume and continued improvement in services.

Next is healthcare. The healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth with continued reinvestment. Orders of $4.6 billion were up 11%. Equipment orders of $2.6 billion were up 13% with DI up 16% and clinical systems up 11%. Orders were up 4 points from the weaker dollar.

US equipment was up 7% and non-US was up 18%. Just to give you some of the pieces, China was up 27%. India was up 25%. Latin America was up 33%. Europe was up 2% but if you adjust for the FX, it was down 8% and that gave us some pressure in the quarter versus our expectations.

Service orders up 9%; the total orders price was down 1.2%. We ended the quarter with an equipment backlog of $4.3 billion, which was up 9% from last year.

Revenue of $4.3 billion was up 9% driven by the equipment up 12% and service up 7% and for revenue just by product line, ultrasound was up 20%; devices were up 8%; CT was up 5%; MR was up 1%; life sciences were up 12%; x-ray was down 4%; and services were up 7%.

For the quarter, segment profit of $608 million was up 5%. That's driven by the higher volume, better productivity, partially offset by the negative price and $30 million investments in new products.

On the right side of the page, home and business solutions had another challenging quarter. Revenues of $2.1 billion were down 1%. Segment profit was down 63%. Intelligent platforms revenue was up 8%. Lighting revenue was up 7% and appliance revenue was down 7%. The results in the quarter were driven by appliances.

Domestic market was down 5% in units. We also saw material inflation. We are just starting to see the impact of our August price increase and we are also continuing to invest to develop the new products which will start to roll out in 2012. So another tough quarter in home business solutions driven by the housing market here in the US.

Next is GE Capital. In addition to the charts that we have in this morning's pitch here, we also have other GE Capital information in the supplemental deck for your reference and that's on the web.

Mike Neal and the team had another strong quarter in the third quarter. Revenues of $11.1 billion were flat and it was down 4% if you adjust for FX in line with our ending net investment down 4%.

Pretax earnings of $1.6 billion were up 2.3 times over last year and net income of $1.5 billion was up 79%. On the right side, you can see the asset quality metrics, they are about flat for Q2. We had good volume in the quarter, $10.6 billion in CLL, up 31%. Our margins remain strong especially on new business. Our ending net investment at $452 billion is shrinking ahead of plan and just on ending net investment, it declined $5 billion from the second quarter. That decline was driven by 100% by our red asset portfolio, mortgages, real estate and equipment services which were down $7 billion from the second quarter and core ENI was up $2 billion mostly in CLL and retail finance.

From a business perspective, I will start with consumer. Our consumer business had another strong quarter. We ended Q3 with $141 billion of assets, which was down 3%. The net income of $737 million was down 5%. That result reflects the loss of over $100 million from prior-year dispositions like Garanti and Colpatria, excluding the disposition impact, consumer was up 19%.

US Retail Finance had a good quarter. They earned $462 million, up 40%. That is driven by lower loss provisions as delinquencies improved by 130 basis points over 3Q of '10. Volume was $21.9 billion, up 11%, and as expected, our credit costs increased from the seasonally low 2Q '11 levels to more normal levels in the third quarter.

Europe also had a good quarter in total. They had net income of $123 million on a reported basis. That's down 39% driven by the loss of the Garanti income in Turkey but partially offset by lower credit losses. If you exclude the Garanti disposition, Europe was up 7%.

UK home lending earned $57 million in 3Q. It's the eighth consecutive quarter of positive earnings. Our UK home lending assets declined $1.6 billion year-over-year. It's down to $17.6 billion. We realized 116% on the mortgages that we liquidated in the third quarter. Our REO stock is down to 540, the lowest since the fourth quarter of '07. And from the peak of second quarter in '08, we have reduced our global mortgage balance from $79 billion at that time to $39 billion today, So down $40 billion over that period.

Commercial real estate, they had a nice improvement versus last year and versus 2Q. We lost $82 million in the quarter but that was $320 million better than last year and $250 million better than Q2.

In Q3, we had $32 million of after-tax credit losses. We had $146 million of after-tax margin impairments and during the quarter, we sold 115 properties for $800 million recording $68 million worth of gains.

Our assets are down 17% year-over-year excluding FX and down 4% from Q2. Again from our peak in the second quarter of '08, our commercial real estate assets are down $32 billion.

While the commercial market has definitely benefited from some more liquidity in the third quarter, we still see economic volatility in Europe. We will complete our portfolio valuation review in the fourth quarter and that could result in higher marks and impairments in the third quarter but we still expect performance to continue to improve year-over-year.

Commercial lending and leasing business also had another strong quarter with earnings of $688 million, up 55% from last year. Results were driven by lower losses and improved margins. CLL volume was $10.6 billion, up 31%. Americas drove most of the income growth, with earnings of $547 million, up 58%. Europe was flat and Asia was up slightly.

GECAS had a strong quarter, earnings of $208 million, up 31% from last year. That's driven by lower impairments. We recorded $107 million net of after-tax impairments in Q3 as part of our annual review mostly on 737 classics. That was $62 million less than last year and we ended the third quarter with one aircraft on the ground.

Energy Financial Services also had a good quarter, earnings of $79 million, which was up 44%. That's driven by higher core income and lower losses, so overall a very good quarter, very strong quarter in GE Capital.

With all the volatility in Europe last quarter we wanted to share some facts about our businesses in Europe. So we put a page together about our GE Capital & industrial franchises. On the left side is GE Capital. Our businesses are profitable. Through three quarters, we've earned $940 million, which is up 32%. Excluding the benefit of the Garanti gain, our results are up 18% year-to-date.

You can see our assets by country and by business. Our asset performance remains solid. In terms of delinquencies, our CLL delinquencies are at 4%. They are down 20 basis points year-over-year. Our consumer delinquencies are 9.8%. They are down 74 basis points year-over-year.

We are very diversified. We have over 700,000 commercial customers. Probably the most important point on the page is our business model, over 85% of the assets here are secured by collateral.

We do have around $300 million of sovereign debt in the focus countries. It's in Greek and Italian bonds that we've talked about before. We do not have any sovereign debt in Portugal, Ireland, or Spain. We actively manage our counterparty exposures here. We stress test the entire portfolio twice a year and it results in us taking proactive actions to reduce exposures where we feel it's appropriate.

Our view is that the assets are going to continue to come to market here at attractive prices as the banks need to downsize or exit certain areas and we put $2 billion to work in energy assets and in factoring businesses so far at good prices and we're optimistic that we're going to see some more opportunities here in Europe as things go forward.

On the industrial side, Europe represents 18% of our revenue. We have seen some slowdown in orders as listed below the chart but the overall decline has been very manageable. And with our global cost position, we've seen very nominal impacts from currency.

So Europe, it's an important region for us. We've been there a long time. Our businesses are performing okay and we are monitoring the situation closely.

With that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks and just to wrap up, just going back to the operating framework that we presented in December, I just give you an update. We're kind of three quarters of the way through the year.

We expect industrial growth for the quarter and the year. Energy, which has really had negatives through the first three quarters goes positive in the fourth quarter. Aviation and transportation are really slightly better than we thought when we put the framework together. Healthcare and appliances will be slightly lower.

Capital momentum is going to continue. We see organic growth industrially in excess of 5%. We see solid double-digit operating earnings for the year. I think if you think about the pattern for the year, so third-quarter year-to-date, industrial has been about flat year-over-year and financial services, GE Capital has been growing significantly. I think when you look at the fourth quarter, our industrial earnings go positive. Financial services stays at a very strong rate. And so you get in fourth-quarter momentum and that momentum continues into 2012.

So we are confident in the total year framework and for 2011, very strong, solid double-digit growth, gaining momentum as we end the year and the leading indicators remain positive. So I feel really good about what the third quarter said, how the fourth-quarter momentum is looking, and how we feel in terms of closing the year.

Then our final chart is just kind of a framework development for 2012 and just this is kind of a framework that we presented at EPG and then talked about at the end of the second quarter. I just wanted to give you a few reflections as we look at it for the fourth quarter and kind of what we can expect when we do our December dinner and then into 2012.

So we see the key factors around GE Capital continuing to improve. I think the real estate turnaround is underway and that shows up in the third quarter. Our balance sheet strength is very strong and our liquidity remains high. Industrial, healthcare and transportation, a lot of the elements and fundamentals should continue and we should continue to grow.

I think we are lined up to have solid growth in aviation and energy. We've got a full year of the acquisition impact in energy and we will have good momentum in the fourth quarter.

Our margins should improve in 2012 versus 2011. We are going to continue to watch the situation in Europe, but as Keith said, it really does appear manageable today. In 2012, really we should have both solid organic growth and expanding margins. So we think the promise of that and the execution around that is key.

We have retired the preferred shares. We basically have done what we said we were going to do on capital allocation and I think the retirement of the preferred shares really provides the EPS lift for 2012 and we feel good about that.

So we like our portfolio. We think our outlook is strong and we are well-positioned in this volatile environment. So with that, Trevor, let me turn it back to you and we will take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Keith. Chanel, I think we're ready to go to the Q&A now. I know we have a lot of people that have a lot of questions but if we could try to limit it to one per person with the amount of time we have, that would be great.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning. I just wanted to make sure you guys have the margin number here. I'm not sure if you gave a revenue number but what is the absolute profit number in rough terms for either the quarter or for the year? I think $7 billion was kind of around what you were talking about before. Is it around that number for the year?

JEFF IMMELT: You're talking energy now, Steve?

STEVE TUSA: Sorry, energy.

JEFF IMMELT: No, I think we are still kind of in that neighborhood for the year.

STEVE TUSA: Okay and then one last question just on the price there and what you are seeing -- hearing from your customers in the US. Anything going on there in the US and also just what's the price outlook going forward?

JEFF IMMELT: The order pricing, Steve, in the quarter was a little bit better that it was in 2Q, still down slightly for energy.

KEITH SHERIN: It went from negative 2.9 in 2Q to negative 1.4 on equipment in the third quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: In Q3. I think from a macro sense, Steve, we see good wind demand in the US for '12. I think the gas turbine demand is going to continue to come from outside the United States. And I don't see -- I think kind of what the guys told you in the investor meeting in September around pricing is still kind of holds. I think it's firming, but it will continue to be a competitive market.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Barclays Capital.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. I am wondering, can you give a sense of the outlook on healthcare? Growth is good and I wonder when we get to 2012, is there -- given what's going on in Europe and such, what are your customers telling you on spending plans?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I'd say Europe and Japan, if you think about those two markets in the second half of this year, probably cost us about $70 million of operating profit, something like that in the second half. Just those two markets and I don't -- I think Japan could get better. I think Europe we are going to stay cautious on Europe.

The US is surprisingly strong. Our orders in the US, as Keith said, were very solid and then the growth in the emerging markets is booming. So we see phenomenal demand globally. You know, Scott, I think the R&D expense in Q3 was more driven by some of the investments we are making in home health and healthcare IT. We are launching this [Colivia] product in healthcare IT, more so than what I would call classic MRCT type of activity.

So a lot of the R&D that you see is really more in the life sciences, IT, Home Health space. When we think about '12, we haven't done our operating plans yet, but when we think about '12, I think the profile of mid to high-single digit revenue growth, double-digit op profit growth, is still the way we think about '12.

Keith, I don't know, would you add anything to that, Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: I think our strength clearly is in the emerging markets. You can see the orders growth. We have invested to localize our business and globalize our business. I think the team is doing a great job of that. I think U.S., as you said, is a little better than we thought and we've got to do a good job executing there. Europe is probably going to stay slow based on reimbursements and the current stress from a government perspective. So I think it's a pretty good outlook.

SCOTT DAVIS: Jeff, I think I could ask this question for pretty much any of the big segments, so maybe I will just ask it in a bigger picture sense. How do you feel about your cost structure? Obviously, you had a weak pricing environment, but maybe that's also a reflection of your cost structure could have been, I guess, theoretically a little better and you could have shown a better incremental margin. But if we do hit a bit of a roadblock in 2012 and things slow down, what is your confidence at least on the cost side?

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say, Scott, when you look at our -- when you look at the variable cost productivity and what we are doing in sourcing and direct costs, I think that continues to be very strong. We have increased the investments in global growth, and we have increased investments in R&D. We think a lot of those investments are in place and are showing up in the revenue line.

Our organic growth is great. Our growth in the growth markets is superior to our peers. Our growth in services is superior to our peers. So we think, Scott, that we are well-positioned for 2012. That's really the basis on which we have made these investments are 2012 and 2013.

Our R&D expense as a percentage of revenue will decline in 2012. But I think when you look at our backlog, when you look at our organic growth, when you look at our revenue run rates, they are extremely strong and I think fare well versus our peers. That's really why we made the investments.

KEITH SHERIN: I think on the back office, we've got to continue to streamline. I think we have opportunities. We are investing in IT projects to try and consolidate and get consistent global ledger platforms. We're going to look at back office outside the US on a broader basis so I think there's always opportunities there for us, Scott, and I think that will help us to kind of offset some of the funding that we've done on the growth side.

SCOTT DAVIS: Fair enough, good luck, guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. This new projection of double-digit earnings growth in 2012 really puts GE among the very few companies today to draw the line in the sand and say you can have that kind of earnings growth. And it's certainly welcome news. But can you share a little bit more of the assumptions most importantly kind of the geographic splits, core revenues? And can we start there, please?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, why don't I start and then, Keith, you fill it in. I think -- I will start with GE Capital, Deane, and just say kind of arithmetically we continue to progress. The returns expand -- the returns stay high on the ENI base and the amount of red offsets run off and so I think from a GE Capital standpoint, double-digit growth is kind of arithmetic.

Then when I look at our big -- two big businesses, aviation and energy, extremely strong backlogs, tremendous product profiles, really good geographic mix. And I would say comparing to -- at least in the case of energy, easier comparisons in 2011 versus 2010. So I like the way our two big industrial businesses are positioned but I particularly like the backlogs and how they are positioned.

From the standpoint of transportation, kind of more of the same as it continues to expand and healthcare I described earlier.

So our belief is we ought to see very attractive organic growth and expanding margins industrially in 2012 and a lot of our positioning is in growth markets so a lot of our order strength and a lot of our positioning is there.

You know, I think it goes back to Scott's question. We position to win in '12. I don't think the environment has really surprised us so much and we have positioned our Company to win in '12 in this kind of environment. So we got the goods I think from a product background and from a backlog standpoint. Keith, anything to add?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have specific geographic numbers but take a look at kind of where we are third quarter year-to-date 59%, 58%, 59% of our revenue is outside the US. Our orders are up 16%. It's pretty well split domestically and globally. We are getting a lot of growth out of the emerging markets. That's going to continue. Our backlog is very strong and it's going to -- we're going to continue to get 59%, 60%, 61% of our growth out of -- outside the US. So I think in terms of that, that's one way to look at it.

The other thing is I think as we get into the fourth quarter here, we are going to do our operating plans and obviously in December, you will have a more thorough discussion of what we think the framework is by business. This framework is off of our growth playbooks that we've done in the summer and off of our business updates that we've done after the third quarter. We feel pretty good about it.

JEFF IMMELT: And $191 billion of backlog is the most backlog we've ever had. We're really not counting on much in the US in the gas turbine field and stuff like that. So we're really not -- we are just not looking for that much from the developed economies.

KEITH SHERIN: You are going to see a good wind -- good wind activity. As you saw the orders in the quarter, that's going to help and obviously that's going to be one thing that will be positive in the US and in '12, we will have a good amount of wind activity as people work to get those units in place to qualify for the production tax credits that are available.

DEANE DRAY: Just on that last point for the -- all eyes are on the energy margins and 2012 and at the analyst day, it was a plus 15. So will we get a better sense of how much plus 15 there is in the fourth-quarter turn?

KEITH SHERIN: It should be the starting point. You know, we have said they are going to improve off of where we have been this year. They've got a big volume quarter and it should be directionally what we are trying to achieve for 2012.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Just wanted to take I guess a segment angle to Scott's question, cost structure or otherwise. But at energy, can we have a little more detail block on how profit is actually down on 25% revenue growth and some added perspective there?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, if you look -- I will do it by the margin percents maybe, Chris. So in the third quarter last year, we are a little over 20% margins. The wind business alone drove margins down by 2.9 points in the energy segment. A lot of that was price, as I mentioned, and some of it was the mix. M&A -- acquisitions drove margins down by 0.6 point and then our global programs, investments and the balance of plant revenue that we talked about account for the other 1.3 points.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, and then just directionally with aviation, you get 2X the GEnx shipments in the fourth quarter. Would we be looking at a similar magnitude of margin impacts sequentially as we saw 2Q to 3Q?

KEITH SHERIN: I'll have to take a look at that. I would say that I think that with an increase in the GEnx engines you will be closer to flat on op profit V than you will up 7%. I think that's probably a way to think about it. I don't have the final aviation number for the fourth quarter, but it will be less of a positive V obviously in the fourth quarter than what we had in the third quarter just based on that GEnx ramp.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Just a question on capital allocation. Keith, you mentioned just things improving at Capital and maybe in position to start some bulk originations. I think investors are kind of expecting a dividend out of capital and maybe it comes back in share repurchase and I've even heard people talking about a dividend beyond kind of the normal December hike. Is that the way to think about things? How does cash flow and capital allocation actually play out in 2012?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we expect to have a stronger CFOA from our industrial businesses in 2012 than in 2011. We won't have the drag of not having the NBCU cash year-over-year and we will have the growth in the industrial businesses including the acquisitions and obviously the growth in our earnings.

From a capital perspective, our plan is to have a dividend out of GE Capital back to the parent in '12. We've got a lot of work to do on that. We have obviously worked hard over the last couple of years to strengthen our capital ratios. You saw the numbers there. They are very strong compared to peers and other standards out there.

As you know, though, the Fed just became a regulator in mid July. It's very early in the process of them getting to understand us and we are working constructively and transparently with them, so we will have to give you an update as we go forward with them on that. Our objectives are still the same and we've got a lot of work to do to get at that.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I think we expect to have a lot of cash to allocate in 2012 and I think we still want a balanced approach. We like the dividend growth. We like doing small deals but we think the energy team has plenty on its plate right now and so we will be selective in terms of where we do M&A. And then buybacks, we've done -- I think being able to do $1 billion in the quarter plus the Berkshire preferred is really $4 billion in Q3, which is going to benefit investors next year. So we will continue really with the balance and disciplined capital allocation approach.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: And then just finally from me, just thinking about R&D and aero going into next year, you've got the GEnx ramp. There's some comments out there about fuel burn on GEnx. I don't know if that's kind of normal new engine stuff, but can you speak to what you think you need to spend in '12 on both GEnx and LEAP-X and can aero margins actually drift higher next year in the face of that?

JEFF IMMELT: I think we are just kind of in the normal launch on the GEnx and the performance improvement programs really look to be either on or ahead of schedule, so we feel good about that. And then again, I think for next year we've got a shot at expanding margins in aviation and we are launching these new engines but that's really where our focus is. We've got a lot of the GEnx is going to be in the run rate this year in terms of the shipments. So we are kind of -- don't have that headwind when we look at 2012 and I think that's a real positive for investors and that's what we are kind of getting behind us this year.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, I just wanted to follow up on energy infrastructure pricing, just in terms of the dollar effect negative from price on your earnings. I guess for this year year-to-date it's maybe $400 million or something for energy infrastructure as a whole. The full year is maybe nearer $500 million plus. When you were saying you feel good about the energy backlog, I understand the volume outlook is improving but does that also mean that the price hits your energy infrastructure earnings in '12 should be a smaller number than we are seeing in '11 right now?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I still expect it to be negative next year but it's not nearly going to be of the magnitude that it has been this year. I think we had -- this was a particularly tough comparison year, Julian, just given the wind margins in 2010. So I think that's just the run rate that we see to be less -- much less of a headwind next year than this year.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks. And then just within the oil and gas margins specifically, obviously down a fair amount year on year. Is there anything going on in terms -- I understand there's probably some dilutive effect from acquisition integration but is there anything going on in terms of the pricing environment?

And maybe you've seen around oil and gas pumps a couple of companies in the past 10 days have talked about slowing orders because projects are getting pushed out. Could you just give an update on sort of the volume order outlook and also what the effects from price are in oil and gas specifically on the margin? Thanks.

KEITH SHERIN: The volume continues to be incredibly strong, as you saw in our orders, turbo machinery and also drilling and production. For the quarter we -- I can do it again on an op profit walk and we had a little over 16% op profit in the third quarter '10. Negative price was about $30 million. That's 1.4 points down. The acquisitions were about 0.7 points, so again we are earning money but at a much lower margin rate than our core business. And then the global investments that we've been making are about another 0.7 points, getting close to the 13% they had, 12.5% they had in the quarter.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. A couple follow-ups. First on capital allocation, is -- do we have any update on or sense of timing on the completion of the Fed process and is that completion a necessity in terms of moving on the dividend? Are those two tied at the hip I guess?

KEITH SHERIN: They are. We are working cooperatively with them. Imagine being parachuted into GE Capital in July and saying you know the whole place, they've got a lot of work to do. We are cooperating with them. I think we're just going to have a constructive, open dialogue. We are having a lot of meetings and a lot of work is going on. But we are going to respect the Fed and we're waiting for them to work cooperatively with us on when we make a decision on a dividend back from GE Capital. I think they've got a lot of learning to do and we have got a lot of information to share with them and we've got to work constructively on that.

So it does matter and it does depend on them and we are going to work cooperatively with them to get to that point.

TERRY DARLING: Keith, just to be sure I'm clear there. So is just the dividend up from capital or any dividend at the beginning of (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: It is the dividend (multiple speakers) out of capital that I'm referring to.

TERRY DARLING: Just the dividend out of capital.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I mean, we will work with the Board as we always do on the dividend plans for GE in total and Jeff mentioned it's a real priority for us in terms of capital allocation is the dividend to our investors and we want to keep around a 45% payout ratio and we feel we got a pretty good outlook to deliver on that.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Terry, I just want to make sure that that is well understood that the GE dividend to our investors is a real priority. I think that moves really independently of the Fed process and from the Board and from my standpoint, it remains an extremely strong priority for the Company.

TERRY DARLING: Helpful, and then in terms of the capital allocation thought process between acquisitions and continuing this kind of pace of buyback with some of the dislocation asset prices seem to be some opportunities out there that you mentioned on the capital side. What are you seeing on the industrial side or should we think that buyback remains a priority at least in the near term?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Terry, I kind of take it segment by segment. I think the energy guys have enough on their plate right now so I really think we are full throttle execution mode in energy.

Aviation and healthcare, if we do anything, it's going to be kind of on strategy and accretive and in our wheelhouse and in the size range that we've talked about the past. So we always want to stay opportunistic. We always want to stay focused on our key growth segments in the future.

Like I said earlier, I really like our backlog. I like our product profile. I think we have positioned ourselves to get -- nobody can predict the environment. We live in a more volatile world, but I think if you look at our backlog and our product profile, the odds of us having organic revenue growth equal to or greater than our peers is quite high just with the stuff we've got in our backlog right now.

So we don't think we need acquisitions to deliver on what the Company needs to do for our investors in 2012.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and then just lastly, Keith, is there any way to put an EPS number on the dilutive effect from acquisitions all in this year and what you are expecting EPS accretion all in next year based on the deals that have been done at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know about an EPS number. In terms of the results, we are going to earn somewhere around $300 million in the deals for 2011. I think the offset -- and that's mostly in the energy and oil and gas segment. The offset to that is in the BD cost and some of the restructuring we've been taking at corporate, it's pretty much a wash for 2011.

We will have incremental growth in 2012 from the acquisitions. It should be quite healthy and we will have a real decline in the offsetting costs that are coming into corporate. So I think the acquisitions are going to be pretty accretive next year. I don't have an earnings per share but it's going to grow from the $300 million plus at the energy segment into 2012 just based on a full year.

We also expect to start getting some of our synergies and you'll have a nice offset by not having some of those costs at corporate.

JEFF IMMELT: It's a good question, Terry. We'll make sure that we show that in December.

TERRY DARLING: Sorry, if I can get one more. Any tax thoughts for 2012, Keith, that you would want to start us out with here?

KEITH SHERIN: I really don't have a framework for that yet. I would really love to wait until kind of the December outlook to be able to give you a better look at what we think 2012 taxes are.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Bank of America.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Keith, where there gains in the CLL business? I'm just trying to -- I realize the provisions were down but I'm just trying to understand a little bit why exactly the profits were up 55% if the revenues were flat? Are you getting better spreads or what --?

KEITH SHERIN: There is some better margin in there. I didn't have any gains of big amounts over $50 million that I recall in CLL. In terms of the walk of profitability from a net income from third quarter last year to this year, the losses were $120 million and the base income was up $125 million. A lot of that was margin.

JOHN INCH: And is that margin in North America mostly I'm assuming?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have a split of where it is. I see there are improved margins in North America. That was a lot of it. There's a little bit of margin improvement in Asia and margins were about flat in Europe.

JOHN INCH: And then can I just ask you guys -- I appreciate the color on the Europe profile. Maybe one of the ways to kind of stress test this would be to just sort of look back and try and understand a little bit what your experience was in Europe in the previous recession, just because all else equal, North America looks still pretty resilient but Europe seems headed for a recession.

So the question kind of comes down to if we do roll into that sort of an environment, what do you think the risks of some sort of a haircut to the asset base and the associated book equity would be under that scenario? Is there a way to think about that? I realize a lot of your -- a lot of the loans are collateralized. The GECAS planes can be flown out or reassigned them. I'm just curious.

KEITH SHERIN: We've got a couple different stress cases. If you have a normal slowdown in the economy, you're going to have higher delinquencies and that will roll through in sort of normal losses. I don't think there's anything precipitous about that. We have run other stress cases that are a lot tougher in terms of the total capital markets look in Europe and we still think those are manageable.

But I think if you're just talking about Europe is going to -- look, we're expecting Europe to have slow growth. They are going to be deleveraging. And there's going to be some volatility and we lend money on that basis.

So I think we would have higher delinquencies and as you have higher delinquencies, you probably will have some higher losses in Europe but our base stress test was a scenario of a slowdown, a little slow down in Europe is very manageable for us. The normal credit cycle I would say.

JOHN INCH: Just lastly, Jeff, as you think out, is there some reason why you wouldn't want to prospectively manage capital lower than the kind of 30 to 40 target over time? I don't mean quickly but over time, is there some strategic reasons why 30 to 40 you feel good about that positioning today?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, John, what I have said is right now what we have tried to give to investors is a sense of what's in our control. And I think we've kind of executed since the financial crisis. Those things are in our control so that's what we talk about 30 to 40. I think if we look out over time, it's just to me it's what's the way to maximize value of GE for investors. And what is the right split of businesses and what is the right capital allocation?

So we're going to have to reflect on that once we kind of go through the processes we are in today, but it's going to be -- it is going to be how do you maximize shareholder value? What's the right split?

JOHN INCH: Yes, fair point. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Morgan Stanley.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. So I understand the Fed is still doing their work and there's not much to say there, but any sense as far as whether GE Capital Services or GECC is the right entity? Both have strong Tier 1 ratios but the 1.3 point difference between the two has a meaningful impact on the potential service capital that you could maybe bring back to the parent. But any sense on whether it's GECS or GECC?

KEITH SHERIN: We are still working with them on what's going to be the holding company level. I think you've seen we strengthened the ratios in both entities consistently over the period and both are manageable. There's a runoff operation in GECS. The runoff insurance operations don't relate to the ongoing running of GE capital and we will have to see which entity is the right one to land on.

At the end of the day we are going to be responsible for both. We consolidate at the GECS level and we will be responsible for all the operations of that entity no matter which gets picked for the regulation. The regulation is going to be throughout the Company is the bottom line, Nigel.

NIGEL COE: Okay. And then one final one. Obviously you got a big maturity coming up in 2012 in GE Capital, $81 billion, but you've also got a lot of cash on the balance sheet. How much of the $83 billion of cash is earmarked for those maturities?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we plan on having a very solid funding year in 2012. We're going to end the year just coincidently somewhere around $87 billion which is very close to the number we have today. We plan to issue probably $25 billion to $30 billion. We're still working on our plans for next year. We did obviously $25 billion this year. We did $24 billion. We will do $25 billion.

We've got alternative funding growth of $5 million to $15 million. We've got $1 billion. We've got the business cash flows and then we have the maturity. So we are planning on bringing that cash pool down substantially next year. Basically we have immunized a lot of long-term debt maturities in 2012 with cash. We borrowed it in advance and so we are planning on bringing that cash pool way down in 2012 by the end of the year being closer to $50 billion than it is to the $80 billion that we have today.

NIGEL COE: What's the impact on earnings? Because obviously you have the positive spread as you pay down debt with cash.

JEFF IMMELT: I think you will start to get some of that in '12 and you'll get some of that in '13. Right now the negative carry is several hundred million dollars a year for having all this excess cash.

NIGEL COE: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Thanks for fitting me in. So just I guess big picture for a second. You have been talking about double plus signs in that 2012 since your last outlook last year in December. What is your conviction or confidence level as we start talking about that energy number, the tax rate, the dividends. I know there's a lot of moving parts here but if you sort of gauged your confidence level around getting that on each of those points relative to where you've been over the last I guess it is nine months or so, talking about this that whole time.

JEFF IMMELT: Again, our order rate backlog market position, and by market position I mean our share position and key products has only improved since the first time we've talked about this. Clearly we have got to be mindful of what's going on in Europe and things like that but just when you look at our backlogs and aviation and energy, they are quite strong and we've got a full year carryover of the acquisitions, to what Keith talked about. We have done a good job from a capital allocation standpoint retiring the preferred stock. That's behind us.

I think in GE Capital, you're going to have a better commercial real estate year next year than this year so I think if you look at the big drivers, Steve, it's just either in backlog or the momentum we had in Q3 helps us -- helps solidify that view going forward.

KEITH SHERIN: So -- I think it does depend obviously what happens in the world. Our view is we're going to have a slow growth developed world. We're going to have slow growth in the US and slow growth in Europe. Europe could be flat next year even or maybe it's in a recession. But it's not -- we are not planning on a real huge decline in Europe or in the US.

And in the developed world, we expect -- the developing world we expect to have continued good orders momentum and it's very broad-based. It's in all these growth regions that we are operating in and we think that's going to continue with some volatility.

I don't think -- you don't think Brazil goes straight up forever and China will have since slowdowns from 9% to 8% or whatever.

So we're planning on a slow growth developed world, continued high growth developing world based on the businesses we are in. We are in heavy infrastructure and that's where those capital expenditures are being made in those growth regions. And we are -- we've got a lot in the backlog, as Jeff said. We're going to go through our operating plans here in the fourth quarter and we will give you good update in December.

But it feels pretty good about where we are positioned today. The fourth quarter and the energy performance is going to be an important indicator for us. We've got to execute and we will have to show you that and we feel good about that outlook and we will give you an update as we said in December.

STEVEN WINOKER: That pricing in the backlog, you are basically -- you're saying it is not getting any worse at a minimum and getting better really the way you're looking at it?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the comparisons are certainly easier. Obviously when you look at what we've had to deal with with the margin compression in 2011, we are still going to have price pressure as Jeff said in 2012. I hope it's less than what we had in 2011 when you look at the full year. We've got a lot of orders to come to see what happens with that in 2012.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and you took provisions up to over $1 billion this time, but not by a huge amount. Was that provision increase -- how much of that was just driven by your current loss experience versus your concern about what you are seeing in Europe and other places?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, the main driver in the quarter was what we talked about. The retail business went back to a more normal level of delinquencies. We had in the US about $300 million impact in the provision in the third quarter versus the second quarter. That was driven by delinquencies in the US retail business going up 39 basis points.

Now on a historic basis, you go back three or four years and you average the third quarter versus the second quarter, it normally goes up 55 basis points so a little better than historic but as we planned and that's the main driver for the provision change upward in the quarter.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Thanks guys.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, just a couple of items to close out, housekeeping announcements. The replay for today's webcast will be available this afternoon on our website. We will be distributing our normal quarterly supplemental data for GE Capital around noon today.

And I do have a couple announcements for upcoming investor events at year-end. First, we will host our GE Capital investor meeting in person on December 6 at our -- near our headquarter site at Norwalk, Connecticut. We will send out details once that is finalized.

Second, our annual outlook investor meeting with our Chairman will be in New York City at the normal place on December 13 and more information will be sent out closer to that date also.

Finally, our fourth-quarter 2011 earnings webcast will be on January 20.

As always, we will be available today to take your questions. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111104e7al002pa
  


 HD
 Q2  2011  General Electric  Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,319 words
   PD
22 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2011 earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is Chanel and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Chanel. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's second-quarter 2011 earnings webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release early this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are also available for download or printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes; please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks. Good morning, everybody. Just to start off, the Company had another strong quarter; leading indicators were positive with infrastructure orders up 24%. I think that is a really good sign.

Strength was broad-based with expansion in many of our end-use markets. Our global growth was especially strong.

There remains a few sources of volatility, but they are well known. It's housing in the US and the impact on appliances, the US wind market, and the slow European economy.

Our earnings growth continues to rebound with operating EPS up 17%. Growth was pretty broad-based including Aviation, Healthcare, Transportation, Oil and Gas, and Capital. In fact, capital continues to be very strong; our earnings were up substantially. The only drag was Energy, which should improve in the second half of 2011.

Our balance sheet was very strong with $91 billion in cash and a Tier 1 common ratio of 10.4%.

Lastly, we continue to make progress on our capital allocation plan with a big step in the third quarter as when we retire the Berkshire preferred. In addition, we will likely close the Converteam acquisition in the quarter. So we are executing well and we feel good about the quarter.

Orders were a real highlight. They were very strong, a big highlight; growing 24% with real strength in every segment. This actually comes off a good quarter in second quarter of 2010 when orders also grew by 8%. Organic orders growth was 17% and Energy orders were particularly strong.

We had some big wins -- Renova in Brazil, Wheatstone in Australia, and others. We recorded $27 billion in commitments at the Paris Air Show, most of which will turn into orders in subsequent periods. Our Healthcare orders in growth regions expanded by more than 20%. Transportation had outstanding global wins in mining and we ended the quarter with a record high backlog of $189 billion.

Now we have made investments in growth over the past couple years and they are paying off. We are seeing a great response to John Rice's leadership of our Global Growth organization. Global orders grew by 23% with growth markets up 21%.

Every business had double-digit growth. Highlights included China up 32%, India up 91%, Australia up 35%, Latin America up 45%, Russia up 23%, Africa plus 35%, and [Asian] up 22%. So global markets industrially remain a source of strength for GE.

Services remains strong with revenue growth up 14% and we are seeing good growth across all the businesses, and CSA backlog is at an all-time high at $139 billion.

New product launches are working. The LEAP-X is now a great success with the Boeing 737 re-engine partnership, an important strategic step. We are seeing broad customer interest in the new gas turbine Flex 50 which offers both record high efficiency and grid flexibility. Our 1.6 megawatt wind turbine is gaining share in North America.

We have a broad array of product launches in healthcare and between now and year-end 2012 we will have a major launch in every appliance product. So based on this we think our organic growth rate should accelerate in 2011 and 2012.

Cash remains on track. We remain on track to generate $12 billion to $13 billion of CFOA for the year. Working capital has grown by about $2 billion year-to-date to support our second-half 2011 equipment backlog. This will reduce by at least $1 billion as we end the year.

As I said earlier, we ended the quarter with a record $91 billion of cash and, as I mentioned earlier, we plan to retire the Berkshire preferred shares by the end of the third quarter. We remain committed to attractive dividend growth and reducing our share count over time.

Now margins declined in the quarter. The decline was primarily in Energy and really driven by significantly lower margins in the wind market. Also contributing to lower margins were heavier R&D spending and acquisitions.

We expect margins to improve in the second half of 2011 and going forward we will be managing through several factors. Winds margins have declined substantially between 2010 and 2011, but will stabilize. We expect deflation and lower material costs to continue throughout 2011.

We expect R&D investments as a percentage of revenue to be flat to lower in 2012 versus 2011. Service margin growth will continue, acquisition integration is trending ahead of plan, and Energy equipment orders pricing should improve by the end of next year. So if I compare where we are today versus our December framework for 2011, we expect industrial revenue to be higher, we expect margins to be slightly lower, and our expectation of industrial profit growth in 2011 is unchanged. Finally, we expect margins to expand in 2012 versus 2011.

So with that let me turn it over to Keith, who is going to give us an update on financial performance.

KEITH SHERIN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Jeff, thanks a lot. I am going to start with the second-quarter summary. We had continuing operations revenue of $35.6 billion, which was down 4%. But as you can see from the notes on the bottom of the page, we were impacted by not having any consolidation in the NBC revenues. Excluding the impact of NBC, GE revenues were up 7%.

Industrial sales of $23 billion were down 6%. Obviously that was also impacted by NBC and I think the best way to think about industrial revenue is to look over on the right side on the segment revenues. Industrial segment revenues of $23 billion were up 10% and that doesn't have any impact from the sale of NBC.

Financial service revenues $12.4 billion were down 1%, operating earnings of $3.7 billion were up 18%, and we delivered $0.34 a share of operating EPS, up 17%. Jeff covered the cash flow of $4.4 billion that was also impacted by the NBC, but we are on track for our total year outlook.

For tax rates the tax rates in the second quarter were in line with the framework that we outlined in the first quarter. The second-quarter year-to-date rate you can see was 41%, driven by the NBCU gain in the first quarter. If you look at the second quarter, the GE rate of 21% was consistent with our expectations that we laid out in that first quarter call.

We continue to expect the GE tax rate for 2011, excluding the NBCU gain, generally consistent with the second-quarter rate. For GE Capital the tax rate of 18% for the second quarter was consistent with the expectation of a high-teens rate for the year, up from 2010 as pretax continues to improve and financial services.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Industrial revenues were up 10%; segment profit was down 3% driven by Energy. I am going to cover the details of each of these business businesses in a few pages. And for GE Capital, segment profit doubled in the quarter, leading to the overall segment profit of 18%.

Before I get to the businesses I will just start with the other items page. On the positive side, we resolve some commercial items and we had a $0.01 after a tax benefit, and we recorded that at corporate. Offsetting that we also had $0.01 after-tax of restructuring and other charges, mostly related to the Energy acquisitions. So legal and deal fees and other non-repeat items from purchase accounting were also recorded at corporate.

We also had two transactions recorded in discontinued operations in the quarter. We closed the exit of our Singapore consumer book in April that resulted in a $300 million gain, and that was partially offset by $100 million loss on the disposition of our Australia and New Zealand mortgage book. The net was a $0.02 after-tax benefit in discontinued operations and $7 billion overall of reduction in investment.

So overall not much activity in continuing ops in Q2 in other items.

I am going to start on the businesses with GE Capital. The good news here is GE Capital continues to improve. We have gone from having many pages over the last several quarters to cover GE Capital down to one page today. The additional information is all in the supplemental charts that we posted this morning, so we have just tried to consolidate this, but all the data that we have been giving is in the supplements.

For the quarter, revenue of $11.6 billion was down 1% and that is in line with our ending net investment being down 2%. You can see the pretax earnings were up three times over last year. Net income of $1.655 billion was up two times over last year. That is driven by lower credit costs, lower impairments, partially offset by the lower assets.

You can see our Tier 1 common ratio went up to 10.4% and our leverage was down a full point year over year.

On the right side, our asset quality metrics continue to improve. 30-day delinquencies were down everywhere except mortgage. That is up slightly, mostly because of the declining asset base. Total mortgages were down $6 billion, ex the impact of foreign exchange from the beginning of the year, so we continue to run off that book.

Down in the bottom right, in terms of dynamics we had a very strong volume quarter. Margins were strong at 5.3%. Our non-earnings and losses were better; reserve coverage remained strong.

I will just cover a couple of highlights from the businesses on the left side. First is consumer.

Our consumer business had another very strong quarter. We ended Q2 with $146 billion of assets, that was up 3%. Net income of a little over $1 billion was up 57% driven by lower credit losses.

The US retail finance business had a great quarter. They earned $588 million, up 51%. That is driven by lower loss provisions as our delinquencies improved by over 100 basis points. And the retail business in the US had a good volume quarter. The volume was up 8%.

Global banking earned $310 million, up 17%. That was driven by lower credit losses partially offset by the loss of the Garanti income in Turkey.

And UK homelending earned $44 million in the quarter. It's the seventh consecutive quarter of positive earnings. Our UK homelending assets declined $1.7 billion year over year, and we realized 115% again on the mortgages that we liquidated in the second quarter above the marks that we had taken on valuation.

For commercial real estate we are still facing losses, but we are seeing signs of stabilization. We lost $335 million in the quarter, but that was $190 million better than last year and $23 million better than Q1.

In Q2 we had $92 million of credit losses and $339 million of marks and impairments, and during the quarter we sold 129 properties for $1.6 billion with $26 million of gains. Our assets are down 17% year over year excluding the impact of the weak dollar, and they are down 5% from the first quarter.

We are seeing signs of increased liquidity. If you look at the sales of quality properties, we are seeing stabilizing rents and occupancy on average in the portfolio is up. Our unrealized loss at the end of the year was $5.1 billion; it's down to $4.1 billion at the end of the second quarter. So slight improvements, but we are all still focused on returning this business to profitability.

Commercial lending and leasing also had another strong quarter. Earnings of $701 million; they were up 124% from last year. Those results were also driven by lower losses and impairments.

CLO had a good volume quarter. They did $10.8 billion of volume; it was up 33%. America's net income was up $260 million and Europe's net income was up $40 million.

GECAS had another strong quarter; earnings of $321 million, up 11%. The team funded $1.9 billion of volume with strong margins and we ended the quarter with two aircraft on the ground, both in the process of being redeployed. Energy Financial Services also had a good quarter; earnings of $139 million, up 10%, driven by lower marks and credit costs. So overall at GE Capital a very strong quarter.

Next is Energy. Energy had a mixed set of results in the second quarter. The second quarter is going to be the toughest quarter we see in Energy and I am going to show you more details about that on the next page, but first I will go through the two businesses.

For Q2, on the positive side we are seeing great orders growth. Orders of $9.9 billion in Energy were up 24%, 16% ex acquisitions. Equipment orders of $5 billion were up 42% and 29% ex acquisitions.

Main drivers were wind and aero derivatives. We had orders for 667 wind turbines versus 248 in Q2 2010. We had orders for 41 aero derivative units versus 16 units last year. Partial offset was thermal. We had orders for 41 gas turbines versus 42 last year, but last year included the large Iraq deal. We had 25 9Es in one quarter in one order.

Overall orders price for Energy was down 2.5%. That was driven by wind order pricing down 7% and thermal order pricing down 10% in the second quarter. Service orders of $4.9 billion were up 10% and revenues of $8.1 billion were up 1%. That is driven by the acquisitions partially offsetting all the lower volume.

Thermal revenues of $2.0 billion were down 12% and that was principally driven by five fewer steam turbines. And wind revenues of $630 million were down 46% in the quarter. We shipped 269 wind units in the quarter versus 511 last year.

Service revenues of $4.4 billion were up 8%; ex the acquisitions driven by power gen services up 7%. And segment profit of $1.3 billion is down 24% and it's driven by the lower wind volume and the lower wind pricing, explains almost all the variance.

Next is oil and gas. This business has experienced tremendous -- experiencing tremendous growth. We are getting growth organically, we are getting growth from our recent acquisitions, and we had a little bit of benefit from the weaker dollar in the revenue line.

Orders of $2.9 billion were up 45%. 19 points of that growth came from the deals, Wellstream and Wood Group, and we also had 9 points of translation from FX. So 17% order growth organically for the oil and gas business.

Equipment orders of $1.8 billion were up 41%. We had strong growth in turbo machinery from a large LNG order in Australia. Service orders of $1.1 billion were up 52% driven by upgrades in places like Qatar and Canada. And total oil and gas orders price was positive; it was up 2.1% in the quarter.

Revenues of $2.5 billion were up 39% and there is a similar impact from exchange in deals as there was with orders so you end up about 10% organic revenue growth.

Segment profit; $333 million was up 14%. We had benefits from the higher volume. We had benefits from the acquisitions. And we had benefits as we had material deflation in the business that was partially offset by lower pricing and some negative impact of the foreign exchange.

As I said, this is the toughest quarter of the year for Energy Infrastructure. As we also said at EPG, we are going to be growing in the second half in Energy so let's go to the next page and look at the framework for the first half/second half for Energy.

I think it's important to look at the Energy results in more detail to see the dynamics of what has been a drag in the first half of the year and how we see the improvements coming in the second half. So what we put here the top half of this chart shows the Energy Infrastructure profit; it compares the first and second halves of 2010 and 2011. And on the left side you can see our op profit of $2.9 billion was down 14% in the first half.

On the right side you can see we expect the profit to be higher in the second half versus last year's second half. So we are going to get growth in the second half and the main driver for this performance is going to be volume.

What we did, we put the unit numbers for GE Energy alone on the box on the bottom of the page. So if you look at the left side you can see the volume declines that this business has had to deal with in the first half of the year.

Wind turbines were down 26%, gas turbines were down 11%, steam turbines were down 59%, and aero was down 14%. On the right side you can see how dramatically those dynamics change in the second half. Wind turbines will be up 16%, gas turbines will be up 33%, steam turbines will be up 80%, and aero will be up 23%. So overall this volume is going to be up a little more than 17% in the second half and 90% of the equipment that we are showing here is already in firm orders in the backlog.

So what does this mean for margins? Jeff showed you the pressure we had in the first half. If you look at the top on the left side in the middle, you can see the first half margins were down 3.8 points. That was driven by the wind volume and the pricing that I mentioned.

On the right side, with all this additional volume, we expect margins to be better than the first half but still lower than last year's second half when we were up over 20%.

So to wrap this up, we had a tough first half in Energy, the second quarter is the low point for the business, and with the strong volume profile that we have got and the benefit of the acquisitions we expect to resume growth in the second half and beyond.

Let me move on next is Aviation. The Aviation market remains strong in the quarter. Orders of $5.3 billion were up 37%. Our commercial engine orders of $1.6 billion were up 78%; that was driven by GE90 and CFM. Military engine orders of $389 million were up 87%.

Jeff mentioned the success the team had with $27 billion of wins at the Paris Air Show. None of those announced wins are in these orders. Those wins will turn into orders when we get purchase orders from the air framers, usually 12 to 24 months before delivery. So this industry has got a very strong equipment outlook.

Equipment orders price was up 1.6% and we ended the quarter with a backlog of $20.9 billion, up 9% versus last year. Service orders of $2.7 billion were up 14% driven by strong spares. The commercial spare parts orders were $23.9 million per day, which was up 18%, and that was partially offset by military services, which were down 10%.

We had revenue of $4.7 billion. It was up 11% driven by equipment, up 2%, and services very strong, up 21%. We only shipped for GEnx engines in the quarter and that volume will ramp up in the second half as both the 787 and the 747 will be certified before the end of the year. And segment profit of $959 million was up 9% driven by volume and services, partially offset by higher investments in R&D and engine programs.

On the right side is Transportation. Transportation business had another strong quarter in Q2; orders of $1.4 billion were up 19%. Equipment orders of $835 million were up 5%, service orders of $534 million were up 50%, and the equipment backlog closed at $4.2 billion, up 26% over last year.

Revenues of $1.2 billion were up 74% driven by higher volume. We shipped 40% more locomotives to our US customers and almost 5 times more international locomotives driving those equipment revenues up 72%. Service revenues were up 76% on strong parts sales and higher customized service agreement revenue. So segment profit here was also very strong; $178 million, up 7 times over last year, driven by that higher volume and the continued improvement we see in services.

Flip to the next page is Healthcare. Healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth with continued reinvestment. Orders of $4.7 billion were up 9%. Equipment orders of $2.6 million(Sic-see presentation slides) were also up 9% with DI up 6% and clinical systems up 14%.

The US equipment was up 7% and non-US was up 10%. Some of the growth globally -- China was up 25%, India was up 15%, Latin America was up 34%, and the pressure point was Europe. Europe was down 3% but down 14% ex the impact of the weak US dollar, so that gave us some pressure in the quarter.

Service orders were up 10% and total orders price was down 1.3% for the business. We ended the quarter with equipment backlog of $4 billion, up 8% over last year's amount.

Revenue of $4.5 billion was up 10%. That was driven by both equipment and service, both about that level. And just by product line it's pretty broad based -- ultrasound was up 12%, clinical devices were up 20%, CT was up 11%, MR was up 7%, life sciences were up 7%, x-ray was flat, and services were up 9%. So segment profit of $711 million was up 8% driven by higher volume and productivity, partially offset by the negative price and $44 million of higher investments in new products.

On the right side, Home & Business Solutions had a challenging quarter. Revenues of $2.2 billion were down 4% and segment profit was down 26%. Intelligent Platform's revenue was up 19%. They had a good quarter. Lighting revenue was up 7% and Appliances was down 12%.

So overall here, the results in this segment were driven by appliances. The domestic market in the quarter was down 10% in units. We also saw material inflation. And some of the tough comparisons versus last year were driven by the non-repeat of the government incentive programs we had last year in the first half.

There were incentives to replace your appliances with more energy efficient products. And we're also continuing to do a lot of investment here in the new product line. New product programs were up $20 million in the quarter.

So with that, that is a run through the businesses. Let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. Going back to the 2011 operating framework, the framework remains in tact and highly achievable. We expect to see positive earnings growth in our industrial businesses. Revenue growth in the second half should be very strong. As Keith said earlier, Energy Infrastructure earnings will grow in the second half. Our capital earnings will continue to grow with higher margins, lower losses and real estate firming.

Our expectations for corporate for the year are unchanged. So we are going to see solid double-digit operating earnings growth for the year, and we are confident in our total-year framework for both earnings and CFOA. So again, we feel great about the 2011 operating framework. We think it is highly achievable.

And lastly, just the earnings growth outlook. As we think about the remainder of this year and into the future, 2012, I think the outlook remains very strong. I reviewed this with you at EPG. We see momentum building for 2012. We see the key factors around GE Capital continuing to improve. Our balance sheet strength and liquidity remain high.

On the industrial side, Healthcare and Transportation earnings should continue to grow, and I think we should have solid growth in Aviation and Energy next year. I think a couple of ways to reflect -- the American order in Aviation really signals the return to equipment purchases at the US airlines, and I think that is very significant.

And I point out the Energy orders of almost 40% in the quarter, that is largely with the US still not participating. And so I actually think we are at the beginning of a very positive Energy and Aviation cycle when I look at how our businesses are positioned. We also have a full year of acquisition impact in Energy.

Our margins should improve in 2012, so in 2012 we should have both solid organic growth and expanding margins. And finally, we will retire the preferred shares which will provide an EPS lift for 2012. Look, we like our portfolio, we like the GE outlook, and, Trevor, with that I will turn it back to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Keith. Chanel, I think we are ready to open up the lines and head over to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Deane Dray, Citi Investments Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITI: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Would love to hear some color around the assertion on the renewables that we could be reaching the bottom, both on the demand as well as pricing. What sort of indications, quote activity, etc.?

KEITH SHERIN: I will start and then let Jeff follow. Deane, basically, if you look, we are working our way through that last wave of the very profitable US bubble that we had. You can see the margins and the pricing was really brutal in the quarter.

On the other hand, you are starting to see a lot of order activity. You see the orders in the second quarter in the V we had. We are seeing a lot of global activity. They are at lower margins than that previous US high-priced backlog, but the volume is going to be pretty good.

And the last thing I would say is that there is a program in place where the government obviously gives some benefits to wind installations; it's the production tax credits that are in place through 2012. I think the wind farms would have to be installed and operating before the end of the year.

And I think that, depending upon how people view the probability of that being agreed to and extended in the future, you may see some pull in the wind business to put those units in place before the end of 2012 here in the US. So I think we are starting to have discussions with customers about some of that activity.

So I think you are still going to face margin pressure in the second half from wind, but I think you have seen this quarter is, as I said, the worst of it. With that, Jeff, I don't know if you have anything to add on the wind market.

JEFF IMMELT: I think it's highly likely that we get a lot more volume in the US over the next 18 months. We have got the 1.6 megawatt, which is the highest performing unit, so we are going to gain market share probably in that activity.

Then, Deane, what I would say in Canada, Australia, a bunch of other places in the world the wind wave, if you will, is just taking off. So I think from a unit standpoint and from a pricing standpoint we are going to see a little bit better performance.

KEITH SHERIN: The business has gone from extremely high margins, over 20%, and it will be down between high single digits to low teens in this period. So it has been under -- it has been a tremendous performer for us.

It has had an incredible amount of economic results that it has generated for us, but it's going through a period here where it's resetting. And as I said, I think the second quarter is the bottom of that but there will still be additional pressure as we go through the second half of this year.

DEANE DRAY: Great, and if I could --

KEITH SHERIN: We have taken that into account when you look at the forecast we gave you on that page on first half/second half, Deane.

DEANE DRAY: Got that. And then can I get some additional color on the Aviation side? You touch on this in the remarks; important win from the American order decision Boeing on re-engining. Just if you could comment on some of the activity and orders coming out of the Paris Air Show. I did hear some grumblings that there might have been some discounting on the service contracts, but just if you take to us through -- has there been any change in the total economics on these engine orders between what are you expecting on the equipment sale versus service?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I would say the outlook is very good. We went into the Paris Air Show having spent a few months where the CFMI team had not really taken a lot of orders on the A320neo and we came out of that air show with more than 50% share, a very strong performance. We like the orders that we got; I am sure that the competitors like the orders they got.

The launch is a tough process, but we know we have been disciplined about our approach. I think we do use everything that is available to us to compete. Our team feels that the economics that we have on these launch orders are as good as we have had on any launches and we feel great about it.

I would add one thing that is a little bit of real positive here in the last week obviously with the American order. When you take a look at the decision by Boeing to re-engine, and we are in a partnership with Boeing on that, this is the third application for the LEAP-X engine. We have got a sole-source position and I believe that you are going to see that aircraft in service for well into the 2020s.

That is a tremendous opportunity for the Aviation team; we are committed to it. And that investment that we have been making in the LEAP-X technology for the last several years has really proven itself and you can see it now with the sole-source position on the C919 in China. We are competing effectively on the A320neo and now we are going to have a sole-source on the next generation of the 737 when Boeing finally proves that at their Board level.

JEFF IMMELT: I would add, Deane, maybe a couple macro comments on Aviation, just to piggyback on what Keith said. If you are an investor and you sit back and just game board commercial aviation from widebody to narrowbody to regional jets and you look at the position GE has, not just for a year or two, but for a decade, you got to like our position. You really have to like where we are on the 787, 777, and narrowbody. And so you got to like, not just for a quarter but for a decade, where we are, number one.

Then I look financially for Aviation guys. Look, we have got the higher R&D in the run rate, we have got the engines coming down the learning curve, we have all this service revenue coming through. We are going to be able to grow our Aviation operating profits steadily through this cycle while launching these new engines.

And so I think we have got the business positioned, both strategically and financially, exactly where we want it to be positioned for our investors and that is why I think we like the business.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning. I didn't quite get the -- I guess I didn't quite understand your answer to Deane's question about discounting spares. And I guess on top of that when you look at Aviation last cycle they hit like a margin it was above 20%. With all the moving parts here I understand there is development expenses and all that kind of stuff. Can you get back to north of a 20% margin in Aviation over the next, let's say, three to five years?

KEITH SHERIN: Let me answer the first point. There was no unusual discounting of spares, which was anything other than we would have done anywhere to win any of those orders. So I think we have a big business, we have a very profitable service business, we have incredible relationships and long-term contracts with our customers, and there was no crazy stuff that the team did to get those orders. So I just want to be clear on that.

STEVE TUSA: Perfect, thank you.

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at the margins in Aviation, I think they are extremely strong. Obviously they are powered by the incredible installed base we have built over the last 15 years. I think right now the first half they have been very strong; the second half they may be a little lower than what we saw in the first half.

But this is a business that has got tremendous girth. 40% of the engine still haven't even come in for their first shop visit. We are winning market share on new orders, which is going to continue to build our advantage in the installed base over the next 10 or 15 years.

I think, as Jeff said, the R&D amount is in the run rate. We told you about that last year, a year ago at the air show what we are going to have to deal with launch the GEnx engine and to do the development we needed to be competitive on the A320 and whatever happened in the 737 world and what we were doing in China. So I think all that is out there and it's in the run rates and we have got a tremendous franchise.

So I think this business has the opportunity to have a very high margin for a sustained period of time based on an installed base and the tremendous service franchise we have.

STEVE TUSA: But 20% is not a good mid-cycle target?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, look, I think that margins should be able to grow during this time period, and services are going to be very strong during this time period.

STEVE TUSA: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: I think that is a great target for this team. I am not given you a forecast of what the margin --

STEVE TUSA: Yes, we are not -- I am not going to hold you. Just wanted to get idea of when -- you are booking all these great orders; clearly it's a boomer over the next several years. I just -- the leverage is always a hot button issue and so I just wanted to have an idea of where that is going.

The Energy margin in the second half, I mean it's going to be above 15% but it's going to be below 20%. You could fly a 737 through that range --

KEITH SHERIN: With our engine on it.

STEVE TUSA: Any -- I mean it's obviously -- again, it's going to be a hot button issue here in the second half. Can you give us any more directional idea of where within that range? Should we think about the midpoint?

I know this is going to be something that over the next couple of quarters people will be looking at very closely. I just want to have kind of the right bar.

KEITH SHERIN: I think -- I am not going to pick a margin number here; obviously we gave you the direction. I think September 20 -- you may know we have got a separate review which is just going to be focused on the Energy business. We are going to do that in Crotonville and I think at that point maybe the team will give you a little more look at the dynamics of what the equipment volume is going to do in the second half and how we feel about the mix between equipment and services.

But, look, there are going to continue to be pressured on the dynamics that you saw in the first half here. The wind business is going to continue to be a drag.

We are going to continue to have the acquisitions, which are terrific for us; they are fantastic. And as you go forward we will continue to improve the margin rates of those acquisitions, but that is a drag in the second half. And on the offset they are going to have tremendous volume and I showed you that.

So I think we have laid it out. We are going to have better margins than we had in the first half, but they are not going to get any -- we were down a little worse in the second quarter than the first quarter. That will not continue in the second half.

STEVE TUSA: One last one. It seems like things are getting better here in the second half; is there any reason why your earnings would be down quarter to quarter from second to third quarter? It seems like things are just continuing to get better. So I am wondering if there is any one-time or anything like that why earnings would be down, because the Street shows down earnings from second quarter to third quarter.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think GE Capital -- if you look at GE Capital on a run rate -- I am not sure what the Street is quarter to quarter. I think for us at GE Capital we made $1.655 billion. If you look going forward at that there is a couple of things that occur in the third quarter that we got to take into account.

I think, one, we have our normal impairment review at GECAS; we will have to see how that comes out. Two, in the consumer business we had a real benefit in delinquencies in the second quarter. Historically there is an increase in delinquencies in the third quarter in that consumer business and we will have to see how that plays out in the market. Those would be the two biggest dynamics that I would think about.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks a lot. Appreciate all the details.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. My first question was on the oil and gas margins. Those were down, I guess, a couple of hundred points in the first half year on year. Can you maybe spit out sort of what is driving that in terms of how much things like acquisitions are weighing on that? And if you think in the second half you get the same year-on-year trend on the margins?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, on oil and gas in the quarter 50 basis points of the decline was driven by acquisitions. Organically I think the largest driver is the fact that we had negative value gap in the quarter, probably close to $30 million, so pricing and deflation were a negative in total.

But if you look -- the order price index for oil and gas turned positive so that was the first time since the second quarter of 2010. And we are still, obviously, dealing with the negative prices from the prior periods in the quarter.

So I think the acquisitions are going to continue to be dilutive to the margins. Obviously oil and gas has two of the bigger acquisitions affecting them. We probably expect about 50 to 75 basis points in the third quarter and fourth quarter related to those deals.

And then organically we are going to have to see how we do with the value gap. I think pricing is going to be less negative in sales, but it depends on the timing of how fast that orders price works through the backlog, Julian.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks. Then just on the Energy business, you mentioned the price declines in Q2 on wind and thermal. I mean how do you sort of expect to manage that?

I guess the volume pickup is substantial from here, which you have highlighted in this slide, so you can't really do much sort of on the headcount or capacity side. Or is your assumption just that pricing will naturally get better in 2012 after sort of a six- or nine-month lag versus volumes turning?

JEFF IMMELT: We always -- we go through a formal process on quoting and then backlog and then revenue, right? So when we look at the quoting today the pricing is actually trending up on the turbines, so I think --there is always a time lag on that as you go through it. At the same time we are doing material productivity, 2% to 3% material productivity, and we are still aiming to get some deflation in there as well.

KEITH SHERIN: Plus our service business.

JEFF IMMELT: And the service business is extremely strong. So I think the way you got to think about it, Julian, is there is a time lag to the pricing that takes place. That always is the way it goes. And I would say we are seeing the early indicators of it turning, but that is going to take some time.

Services actually the pricing is improving and the margins are improving, and that is a good thing. Then we are going to drive productivity and material pricing and things like that at the same time. I think you put all those things together we really believe that earnings for Energy are positive in the second half and they are positive in 2012 versus 2011.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks. Then just lastly on Healthcare, you guys as well as Philips have had surprisingly good order growth in the US in the last three or four months. So I just wondered if you thought that was a symptom of something broader in terms of the need. After three or four years of underinvestment there is a couple of years of catch-up spend or if you expect that order growth to sort of tail off from here?

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, I think it's not really a boomer I wouldn't say. I think it's -- what our expectation is for the US is steady market, in the low to mid single-digit type of growth. If it does better than that we will be pleasantly surprised.

I would say counterbalancing that a little bit is Europe where you still have a big public spin market in Europe, and that was probably slightly worse than we thought. So the two of them kind of balance each other out.

KEITH SHERIN: And the growth in the developing world and our investments in products and distribution are paying off. You can see those in the numbers in Healthcare.

I think that is going to be the strength, continuing to be the strength for the rest of this year and probably next year and beyond here. Jeff described how we thought US and Europe will play for us.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical Research.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just one more on Energy and then I will shift gears. Keith, you gave us the price on orders. Can you give us price on revenues and how that played out in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, just going to have to find it here. What else you got?

JEFF IMMELT: You going to do your second question first, Jeff?

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: I am actually wondering on GECAS -- you guys have demonstrated that the accounting there is maybe a bit more conservative than some of the other guys that took some impairments six months back or so. But given that the orders have been so dramatic on the Neo and now kind of this big bump on the 37 re-engine, does that change the landscape of valuations on older narrowbodies dramatically? Have you guys work through that yet?

KEITH SHERIN: We thought about it obviously. We obviously thought about it on the A320. GECAS has continued to refresh their fleet year after year. If you look, we do have exposure to -- minimal amount of exposure.

We got the newest fleet, our average age is something like seven years, and we have thought how do you -- the toughest planes right now are clearly the 737 Classics and we are really continuing to make sure we got some appropriate valuations on those. And I think we are going to continue to have a look at that.

But I think the team has worked through it, looked at what we think the implications are based on previous transitions from one technology to the next, and they feel good about their valuations. But as I said, we are going to go through the review of Aviation valuations again in the third quarter and we will have to see if there is any change to that.

But clearly over time, Jeff, when these planes finally are put into service and they are 10% to 15% more fuel efficient you are going to have a residual value impact on the other -- on the planes, and it will transition in over this period between now and 2015, 2016, and 2017 when these new, more fuel-efficient planes come into the market.

So we have been more conservative, as you said, on how we do depreciation and how we view the residual value on our aircraft versus some of the competitors that we have read about. But I think we are going to have to continue to take it into account. We have obviously thought about that as we have put investments into these engines and through programs and also purchase planes and GECAS.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: And if you are still looking for that other answer --

KEITH SHERIN: No, selling prices, if you look in the quarter, on renewables selling prices were down 11.7%, on gas turbines on thermal selling prices were down 1.9%.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Right. And then just finally if I could, on R&D I guess you implied it's kind of fully baked but don't you have a further step up now on the American win on Aero R&D?

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, we really don't. I think that LEAP-X is kind of in the run rate and we anticipated that the application increase that will go into the LEAP-X. So you will have a little bit more in the LEAP-X --

KEITH SHERIN: But you are going to come down on the GEnx.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, the GEnx has kind of crested and it's heading on the other way down so that is how I think about it. We are kind of almost done with the GEnx.

And to your point, as we do each application, you get charges to certify and stuff like that so they kind of offset each other.

KEITH SHERIN: We will have higher R&D, but as a percent of sales, certainly in Aviation, we don't expect it to be greater than the growth in revenue. That is for sure.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: So the wind orders in the quarter were really good; the comparison was particularly easy this quarter. They get tougher. Are you still expecting wind orders to be up in the second half year over year or was this a particularly strong quarter for some reason?

KEITH SHERIN: Our outlook is that the wind orders are going to continue to be pretty good.

JEFF IMMELT: Our pipeline is pretty strong and, as Keith mentioned earlier, some of that is going to go to the Americas.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, our outlook is that they are going to continue to be up. Not maybe as up -- as you said, the second-quarter comparison was easy, but our expectation is they will continue to be up.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: And the lead times on these orders are what at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's a pretty flexible supply chain. I don't know when the last time one someone would have to place an order to get it put into service before the end of 2012, but I am guessing six to nine months would be (multiple speakers) the latest probably.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And then just you are continuing to generate some modest gains in commercial real estate in the UK piece, which -- I mean how encouraging is that? And does that give you any hope of accelerating the wind downs there and the remixing of the asset mix at GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's obvious better than the outlook that we have had over the last couple years. I think stabilization has been very positive. The funds flow into high-quality properties have been very positive from both pension funds, insurance funds, and some global investors.

We are going to have to see when it crosses over into other broader asset classes -- the more mid-market office and things like the warehouse and some of the multi-family space. So it has been encouraging; it hasn't turned into a complete step function change on valuation on our equity book yet, but certainly the trends are good.

Having the embedded loss go down by $1 billion in the first half is positive. That is based on not only the work we are doing with depreciation and also impairments, but also not having further declines from a valuation perspective in the marketplace.

Occupancy was up a point in the quarter for us; rents have stabilized. So I think we will have to see how the environment plays out over the next several months and year, but at least we have stabilized and we feel pretty good about the progress the team has made in that portfolio.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Just first question around -- I would like to dig in still to the pricing and material deflation question, around Energy but more broadly. So you guys are still getting material deflation despite the year-on-year commodity changes elsewhere and what we are seeing across your industries. How should we think about that value gap, particularly given the pricing and the backlog, and how long can you maintain that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we are seeing material deflation. We would expect to have over $300 million of material deflation for the year. We are going to have some insulation on labor and pricing has gone from a positive of a couple hundred million last year to a negative of somewhere between $500 million and $600 million, $700 million.

So the value gap is negative. Our expectation in 2011 is that it's negative; it's driven by the negative pricing. Our objective is that that will level off as we go through 2012.

As Jeff said it, we are putting out quotes today that are better in pricing that what we are seeing in orders today, but they come in in the next six months or so into orders. Then it takes another nine months, 12 months to get those orders into sales.

So I think we are just going to have to work through this backlog. We have anticipated that when we put together the framework we have for 2011. We have anticipated what we know today for what we put together for the framework for 2012.

We got to get more material deflation. We got to continue to do a good job of sourcing from low-cost countries. We got to simplify our products and get them to a lower-cost point from a variable cost perspective. And we got to be efficient in our investments on the base cost side. So our whole team is focused on the value gap and that is what we are going to be working on.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, as I said earlier, I would like to manage the place to get positive margin rate growth in 2012. The way we are going to do that is good volume, try to keep the value gap no worse that 2012 versus 2011, good services margin enhancement, and R&D as a percentage of revenue cresting. And those are the key levers.

That is what Keith went through and that is how we would like to run the place. We have got to do our operating plans and stuff like that, but that is how I plan to kind of manage the team.

STEVE WINOKER: And are you seeing increased competition from what you -- if you think about relative to last cycle, we have seen maybe a little bit reinvigorated European competition, not to mention Chinese and other competitors attempting to break into the mature economies. Are you seeing any change on that front at this point?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think we have got good -- we respect our competitors, but I think if you look at what we have done -- let's pick our big -- Aviation we have launched the GEnx and now the LEAP-X. We have really, I think, reestablished our leadership in Aviation.

In Energy you are seeing the new large frame Flex 50 and soon to be Flex 60. They are going to be the highest efficiency, most flexible gas turbines in the market. The number of products we have has grown substantially.

So I think -- Steve, look, we respect our competition. But I think we come at this cycle with more weapons than we have probably ever had and so I think that is where the investment has gone.

STEVE WINOKER: Right. And I guess I would say or the question is if you think about the upcoming gas cycle as it comes, and even the wind cycle on the state mandates, would you expect to be able to get to the same share levels that you had in the last upturn?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, here is what I would say is we have about 50% share of the gas turbine business today. I certainly don't anticipate it going down, so I think that is -- we plan to play hard.

On Wind, Wind is kind of a different story. We are always going to have high market share in the US and lower market share on the rest of the world.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay. And then just tax rate, Keith, can you maybe address that a little bit in terms of your expectations for the progression there, considering where you came out in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. If you exclude the impact to the NBCU high tax in the first quarter, our expectation is that we are going to have a tax rate for the GE, ex GE Capital, in the low 20% range. And for GE Capital we would expect to have a high-teens tax rate as their pretax profitabilities improve and the structural benefits have kind of stabilized out at somewhere around $350 million a quarter or so.

So there are uncertainties that we have. We have got the 2005 and 2006 and 2007 audit that is under review to be closed. If that got closed that could provide us with benefits that would be maybe beyond those amounts I have, and then obviously any legislative changes that occur. Usually they would be prospective; I don't imagine they would hit us this year.

We are anticipating somewhere in the range of what we saw in the second quarter for the year.

STEVE WINOKER: Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So I believe the Federal Reserve took over as regulator of GE Capital earlier this month. Any takeaways or surprises from the first couple of weeks, or do you have any greater clarity on what, if anything, might change there with the new supervision?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you are right; the Fed has become our consolidated regulator in July. We have had a few preliminary meetings with them; Mike Neal and his leadership team, Dave Mason our Head of Regulatory. We have had information requests and we will share information with them, but it's so early, Jason.

I think we are going to be completely open and cooperative and give them access to everything they need. We look forward to working with them. So it's too early to say anything about the Fed.

But we are as prepared as we can be, but I am sure it's going to be different than the environment we have been in. We are not a bank and we are going to have to learn to report more like a financial bank and that is going to be a challenge. But it's just too early; we have just really just begun.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. And at commercial lending and leasing it sounds like originations continue to be quite strong, but you have got pretty broad exposure across small and midsize businesses. Given the increasingly uncertain macro environment, the debt ceiling debate, what is going on in Europe, have you seen kind of a change in sentiment among your customers or a change in their needs or levels of loan demand as a result of the increasingly uncertain macro environment?

KEITH SHERIN: Hard to connect the dots between that and some of the volume we see. I think the environment has been really tough in the US and Europe for the last two years and everything related to providing financial products to customers has been tough. For a while they had a lot less access to credit. Now there is more access to credit but it's still challenging.

I would have a hard time saying that there is a direct connection between the uncertainty and the debates in Washington or the debt crisis in Europe and the business we are seeing. I think on a relative basis things continue to improve in our outlook.

Our backlog is up in CLL. Our volume is strong; it's the first quarter we had actually collections equal originations in total. Even though we have been running off the red assets, the green assets grew and the pricing is pretty firm.

So for us the environment feels good and getting better, but I agree there is a lot of uncertainty for that customer base. I guess it's going to depend on how all these things get resolved as to when people have confidence to even invest further. But for us I think it's good and getting slightly better.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Keith, I am wondering if maybe we could see if you have an update on the all-in EPS impact from acquisitions this year, which presumably is dilutive, but I am wondering if you have an updated number there. You did mention you felt like the integrations were going well there.

I am wondering if there is an update on what you think the range on EPS accretion for 2012 might be.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the best thing I would say is let's see if we can give you an update of that in September at the Energy meeting. I think it's less than $500 million pretax for the year right now, and that excludes the amounts that we are taking at corporate. So I think that is the amount about pretax, but we will give you an update at the Energy meeting.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. And then in terms of the integration process, does that at this point directionally lead you to be more encouraged about what you are seeing for a synergies perspective there, or is it still early days?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the teams have -- the acquisitions that have closed we feel very positive about. Everyone is a little above what the pro forma was for what we expected this soon.

We are pretty good at acquisitions. We have got our processes; we send in our teams. We have got a lot of integration plans; we do 100-day checklist. We have a lot of formal reporting. We have a lot of additional resources that go in.

And I think everything from our perspective on the oil and gas Energy deals is a little above pro forma right now. So we like the businesses we bought; they obviously fit with GE well. They have got good teams, good technology, and they are off to a good start.

JEFF IMMELT: Orders are good.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. And then, Keith, wondering if you could also maybe continue the puts and takes on GE Capital beyond the third quarter.

You talked about some of the issues that probably made GE Capital EPS in the third quarter off a little bit, which is normal seasonally, but I guess I am trying to balance the other pieces. So losses are coming down but the asset base is shrinking. On the other side of the coin maybe you can comment on new business margins.

And 2012 overall I know you are thinking up, but I am wondering if you have got any more color in terms of magnitude of [up] based on how those puts and takes are shaping up for you?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, Jeff puts two pluses on top of the bar so (multiple speakers). Look, I think I gave you some of the things in the third quarter -- look, obviously the business continues to improve. We had $1.4 billion of write-ups in the quarter that is about 1.8% of financing receivables. We had $800 million of provision that is only 1.05% of financing receivables. I think the provision -- so that brought the reserve balance down about $550 million.

Our coverage is good at 2.3%, in line with the asset improvements. The $800 million provision, I think that is lower by about $150 million, if you look at the supplementals, from some recoveries we have had where the amounts that we recovered were greater than the book value that we had. So that shows up actually as a reduction in the provision.

Plus, we did have some reserve (technical difficulty) in the quarter, about half of that, 150. So if you put that together you are probably going to look at over time, if you go back to 2003 through 2007, you are probably dealing with a 1.2%, 1.3% type of provision that you should be dealing with. That would be a more normalized thing and we are getting close to normal.

I think the only thing that is really not normal yet is real estate and that has got a lot of room for improvement and that is going to provide a lot of earnings growth.

JEFF IMMELT: That is what I was going to say, Terry. Your bluebird here is real estate really. I think we have seen the benefit from more liquidity. If you had a combination of some employment improvement plus liquidity that is going to get a lot better a lot faster. And so I think that is really the upward swing on GE Capital.

KEITH SHERIN: The one obviously in the first quarter the sizable Garanti gain doesn't repeat. I think that is the one thing that you would clearly look at just as a one-time item here, Terry.

TERRY DARLING: You did have a lot of originations in the quarter. Where our margins on new business at this point? Have they come off a little bit of where the highs were last year? Are we still running hot there? What is happening at the margin with that?

KEITH SHERIN: We are still above a 2. We have had a very solid performance. Mike being on the team have been incredibly disciplined on pricing and our objective to get our returns up, and so they have been very disciplined and they continue to have very good margins. They are not as high as the peak, but they are still very strong.

TERRY DARLING: And lastly, and I hope relatedly, pace of buyback in the second half. Obviously you have got the Buffett preferred; you spent $1 billion or so in the first half of the year. Looks to be scoped to go higher than that in the second half if you wanted to, but maybe you could just comment on pace of buyback given the overall GE mosaic in the second half.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we will see. I think just the preferred, just to be clear, that is $3.3 billion. We will retire 20% of what we did in 2008 in the fourth quarter in one swoop here when we retire that preferred, so that is the priority right now. But we will continue to do the buyback and we will continue to be opportunistic around the buyback.

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, I would just add what I said at EPG. We have got plenty on our plate from an acquisition integration standpoint. Our near-term emphasis is coined to be dividend growth and buyback.

TERRY DARLING: Great, thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, Terry. Chanel, we hit our time and we have a lot of companies reporting today, but let's take one more here because we still have one or two in the queue.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Keith, just so I am clear in terms of your commentary around provision, the provisions are down a lot of capital year over year, which was sort of expected and it's kind of a positive data point. Are we at that stage today in terms of the trajectory or would you still expect absolute dollar downward trajectory given your commentary?

KEITH SHERIN: I am sorry, on just the loss prevention?

JOHN INCH: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I mean I think, as I said, if you look at the quarter at $800 million and 1.05% that is a little lower than what our historic amount would be pre-crisis. It has got two things in it in the quarter that you have -- we have to think about the dynamics.

I am not saying exactly what they are going to be going forward, but, first of all, in the consumer space we continue to see a very strong performance in asset quality. The delinquency decline was greater than we had seen previously from the first quarter to second quarter in the portfolio and that resulted in lower provisions.

The second thing is in the quarter we had about $150 million of recoveries that were greater than our asset value that showed up as a reduction in the provision and also some reserve releases. It was about split 50/50. And so that as a one-timer reduced the provision in the quarter a little lower than you normally would have seen.

JOHN INCH: Okay, so that makes sense. Keith, the businesses that you have been divesting in capital, which is part of the plan, what kind of a headwind does that create though in 2012 because of the absence of the contribution benefit of the earnings that you are not going to realize next year? Is there a way to size that at this juncture?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the biggest one is Garanti. Obviously that was -- just on the gain alone was $0.03 and then they are making $50 million a quarter. Then beyond that I think the range would be up to another $0.015 to $0.02 maybe. It depends upon what we get done in the second half here, but that would be a range for you.

JOHN INCH: That makes sense. Then maybe just lastly, could you guys comment on what is happening with respect to Japan sort of broadly, but then Japan as it pertains to your thermal business? You are hearing -- they are certainly ordering a lot of your product. What has sort of been the impact and maybe you could sort of size that for us?

KEITH SHERIN: We had about $600 million in the quarter of orders in Japan; thermal was half of that, but that was Energy orders. Aero derivative was very strong and I think, -- Jeff, you can talk about what you see as the outlook there for additional. We didn't have a big impact in the supply chain; we didn't have a big impact in the country itself in the quarter. I think the orders were good, but other than that --

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think, John, there is going to be another wave of thermal orders. It's kind of like this is the summer of 2011 and we will get ready for the next summer of 2012 and 2013. So my hunch is that there will be another wave of thermal orders.

JOHN INCH: Great, thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, everyone. We are going to wrap the call today.

The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today, probably a little earlier, around noon today.

I have some announcements regarding upcoming investor events. As Keith mentioned, we are going to be hosting our GE Energy Investor Meeting on September 20 at our Crotonville facility in New York. We will provide more meeting logistics and information upcoming in August. And our third-quarter 2011 earnings webcast will be on October 21.

As always we will be available today to take your questions. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
china : China | usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | bric : BRIC Countries | chinaz : Greater China | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | easiaz : Eastern Asia | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110805e77m002gx
  


 HD
 Q1  2011  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,751 words
   PD
21 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is Tom and I will be your coordinator for today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Tom. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter 2011 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor.

Due to the holiday tomorrow, we are reporting one day early and recognize this is a very busy earnings day for analysts and investors. To manage time constraints, we will move through the presentation fairly quickly and would appreciate if you could limit the questions to one per person during the Q&A period.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking that are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now, I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Trevor. Good morning, everyone. Just on the first page, just to give you an overview, I think another good quarter for the Company. Just to summarize some of the highlights, despite the general volatility, our environment continues to improve and get better. We had strong top-line performance and the leading indicators are getting better. We had industrial revenue growth of 8%, 5% industrial organic revenue growth, 12% international growth with Brazil up, Australia, China and India. Infrastructure orders were up in the quarter and had real strength in both Equipment and Services.

Earnings growth continues. Operating EPS was up 65%. GE Capital had a really good quarter as did Healthcare, Transportation and Aviation. Energy Infrastructure had a lower first half, but we expect growth to resume in the second half.

A solid execution, the GE balance sheet continues to be very strong. The GE Capital portfolio transformation is ahead of plan at $82 billion of cash on the Company's balance sheet and we are executing a capital allocation plan kind of in line with what we have talked about with investors in the past. We announced our third dividend increase this morning. We are up 50% since the second quarter of 2010. We have bought back $2.3 billion of stock since we restarted our buyback and we have either closed or announced substantial transactions really in our Energy business, one small one in our Healthcare business. So we continue to execute on our capital allocation plan.

From an order standpoint, we had strong orders in the quarter, up 13% overall and 10% organically. Our strength was across the board and backlog grew to a record of $177 billion. It is worth pointing out some of the positive trends in Energy. We had strength in both Equipment and Services. Pricing appears to be stabilizing and most importantly, large gas turbine quote activity is increasing. So we did see solid orders growth in the first quarter.

From an execution and operations standpoint, like I said in December, we are investing more in research and development, about 12% more in the first quarter of '11. This is producing more new products and that is helping to drive our orders growth.

From a margin standpoint, we are down year-over-year. This is primarily in our Energy business due to two primary factors -- wind turbine pricing and acquisition revenues at lower margins. Overall, material deflation continued and we should see deflation for the year. And through the year, our margins will strengthen quarter-by-quarter. So that is really the story from an execution and operations standpoint.

From a cash standpoint, we remain on track for $12 billion to $13 billion of CFOA for the year. For the quarter, our results are impacted by the NBCU transaction and working capital growth to support equipment sales through the year. Overall, GE's balance sheet remains very strong with $82 billion of consolidated cash and $15.5 billion of cash at the parent. So a story of strong cash flow, liquidity and just strength in the balance sheet. I think the things we've talked about with investors in the past, that all remains intact in the first quarter and we are really happy about that.

From a capital allocation standpoint, we really are seeing balanced and disciplined capital allocation and that remains an important part of our overall strategy. As we said last year, we wanted to redeploy capital from NBC Universal to fast growth energy investments and with Converteam and Dresser and Wood Group, Wellstream and Lineage, our major transactions are done for 2011. Meanwhile, we continue to emphasize growing the dividend as reflected by today's increase, our third in the past nine months. We are focused on reducing our share count in 2011 and retiring the preferred equity by October of this year.

And finally, GE Capital has very strong Tier 1 ratios and we really have done I think an outstanding job, Mike Neal and the team, of strengthening GE Capital coming out of the financial crisis. So we feel good about our capital allocation plan. I think in the quarter, we have executed on the things we said we were going to do for our investors and this positions us I think for good long-term growth and as the year goes on and into 2012. So now, I will turn it over to Keith to go through the first-quarter operations.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Okay, thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with the first-quarter summary. For the quarter, we had continuing operations revenue of $38.4 billion. It was up 6%. Industrial sales of $22 billion were down 6% and the difference is created by NBCU. Our pretax gain that we have from the results of selling a majority stake to Comcast is included in revenue, but that also means we only had one month of NBCU sales in 2011 because we closed at the end of January. So I will describe the gain on the next page, but a better indicator of our industrial revenue performance is on the right side. You can see we had $20.8 billion of industrial segment revenue and that was up 8%.

Financial Services revenue of $13.2 billion was up 3%. For operating earnings, which excludes our nonoperating pension expense, we earned $3.6 billion, which was up 58% and for operating earnings per share, we earned $0.33 per share in the quarter, up 65%.

As Jeff covered, we delivered $1.7 billion of cash from operating activities, which was down 34%, principally driven by NBCU. And for taxes, as we covered with you in January, we have a couple of large items that increased our tax rate for the first quarter. First, there is a large tax on NBCU, which I will cover on the next page; the GE rate, ex-GE Capital, 68% for the quarter, but excluding the NBCU gain, the GE rate was 22%, which is in line with the low to mid 20%s range we gave in January.

The second big factor that affects taxes in the quarter is that the GE Capital tax rate has also gone up as we have expanded pretax income. The $800 million increase in tax expense is all explained by the tax on the $2.1 billion increase in GE Capital pretax income in the quarter year-over-year.

On the right side, you can see the segment results. I am going to go through each business in more detail on the next several pages. Industrial segment revenue was up 8%. Segment profit was up 1% with all segments growing except Energy. And GE Capital had a very strong quarter driving the overall results.

One other point on the memo on the bottom left, we said that we would communicate the amount of NBCU earnings every quarter. I am not going to go into any details on the results. Comcast is going to cover that in their upcoming earnings call. However, for the first quarter, excluding the gain on sale, GE included, $93 million of pretax income from NBC Universal.

Before I get into the businesses, I am just going to cover some of the other items that affected the quarter. First is the NBCU gain. As we said previously, we expected a small after-tax gain when we closed the NBCU transaction. As you all know, we closed at the end of January. There was a gain of $400 million after-tax on the NBCU transaction. The pretax gain on our sale of NBCU was $3.6 billion and that reflects Comcast's new ownership of NBCU and our receipt of $6.2 billion in cash and a 49% investment in the new JV.

Because the JV is structured as a partnership, the taxes are recorded separately from the investment that we hold, so we had a very high tax rate on the transaction, $3.2 billion of tax expense, reflecting both our low historic tax bases in the NBCU assets and the recognition of deferred tax liabilities on our 49% investment in the JV.

If you look down below on the page, partially offsetting that gain, we had $0.02 of after-tax charges in Corporate related to restructuring and other charges. We had some slight downsizing in Energy, Aviation and Healthcare and we also had some capital defleeting.

By business, just to give you the details of the charges on a pretax basis, Energy was $66 million; Aviation was $66 million; Healthcare was $44 million; Capital was $58 million; Corporate was $48 million; and H&BS was $11 million.

We also had $0.01 of after-tax deal-related costs that we took at Corporate. Those are related to the Energy deals that we had. So the NBCU gain was a little higher than we expected and $0.01 of that gain fell through to operations.

One other point on the quarter, not on the page, but we did have six more days in Q1 '11 versus Q1 '10 based on our fiscal calendar. We really don't have as much of a flow portfolio as we used to without Plastics and NBC Universal. However, if you look at the impact on our service businesses, the flow businesses in GE Capital and on Home and Business Solutions, we had roughly $0.01 positive from the additional days.

On the other hand, we also had about $0.005 of negatives related to the disruption in Japan, and Japan is going to be covered by Jeff later in the pitch. So NBCU gained $0.04 in the quarter and partially offset by the other items.

For the business results, I am going to start with GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team delivered another quarter demonstrating significantly improving results. The revenue of $12.3 billion was up 3%. That includes the impact of the Garanti sale. We announced back in November that we were disposing of our Garanti stake and we estimated we would have a $300 million after-tax profit on that, and then we announced that it was going to close in the first quarter. So if you adjust for the Garanti sale, which in revenue was about $700 million, revenue would have been down about 2%, which was in line with our framework.

Pretax earnings of $2.3 billion in the first quarter were up $2.1 billion. They were within $50 million of the total pretax for all of 2010, so a significant improvement in pretax. Net income of $1.8 billion was up $1.3 billion. We did have the benefit of the $300 million after-tax of the Garanti gain, but even without that, GE Capital had a great quarter.

We had $940 million of after-tax lower credit costs and margin impairments year-over-year. Our volume was up 19%. That was mostly driven by the Commercial business, which was up 56% from last year. We had $10.4 billion of volume in the quarter. Our Consumer volume was up 9% over last year and the new business margins remained strong. The overall portfolio margin was 5.1% in the first quarter. As Jeff said, our capital ratios are strong and continue to improve and we continue to see broad-based improvement in our asset quality metrics.

So let me go through some of the business results you can see at the bottom left. First is Consumer. Our Consumer business continued to deliver very strong results in the quarter. We ended the quarter with $147 billion of assets, which was down 7% and that is driven by the continued runoff in our mortgage and our auto businesses.

In the first quarter, our US retail assets were up 7% and Consumer net income of $1.3 billion was up 120%. That included the gain from Garanti. Excluding the Garanti gain, net income of $940 million was up 65% driven by $400 million of lower credit costs.

Our US retail finance business earned $545 million, up 88%, also driven by lower credit losses as the portfolio performance continues to improve. Without including anything for the Garanti gain, our global banking business earned $281 million in the quarter, up 77%, also driven by lower credit losses.

In the quarter, UK home lending earned $63 million, the sixth consecutive quarter with positive pretax and net income. Commercial Real Estate, our Commercial Real Estate business is still facing losses, as you can see, but we are seeing early signs of improvement. We lost $358 million in the first quarter, but that was $45 million to $50 million better than last year's first or fourth quarter. In the first quarter, we had $55 million of after-tax credit losses and $315 million of after-tax margin impairments. And during the quarter, we sold 113 properties for $1.3 billion with $28 million of gains.

Our assets are down 14% year-over-year and down 2% from year-end and we are seeing some early signs of increased liquidity for quality properties. We are seeing stabilizing rents and some places with rising occupancy. Overall, on average, some improvement in the debt portfolio, 1% to 2% in values in the quarter. So better than last year, but still challenging.

Commercial Lending and Leasing business also had another strong quarter. Earnings of $554 million were up 139% from last year. The results there were driven by lower losses and higher core income from pricing and fees. It is pretty broad-based. Americas were up 81%; Europe was up 24%; and Asia was up 90%.

GECAS continues to have good performance. The earnings of $306 million were down 3% from last year. The portfolio continues to be in strong shape. We had $16 million of non-earnings and zero aircraft on the ground. And Energy Financial Services earned $112 million, which was down 27%, driven by lower gains year-over-year. So overall, a really strong quarter for GE Capital.

Next is asset quality. In the interest of time, I am not going to go through all the detail here. On the left side, you can see our delinquencies continue to improve across all the portfolios. Non-earning assets declined by $500 million overall and our coverage on reserves to non-earnings was basically flat. On the right side, you can see our write-offs at $1.7 billion were greater than our new loss provision of $1.3 billion, so reserves came down by $400 million. Overall reserves ended the quarter at $7.6 billion and the coverage was down 5 basis points to 2.42% as the portfolio performance continues to get better.

Next, I am going to shift to Energy over to Industrial. Energy orders of $7.3 billion in the quarter were up 17%. Orders were up 10% organically with Equipment up 10% and Services up 10%. The thermal orders of $730 million were up 57%. We had orders for 27 gas turbines versus 10 in the first quarter of last year. The orders price for thermal was down 6%. We had strong Aero orders of $387 million. They were up over 100% and we had wind orders of $930 million that were down 22%. We had orders for 327 units this year versus 494 last year and the orders price for wind was down 3%.

Service orders of $3.9 billion were up 15% from strong power gen services and measurement control systems and digital energy. In the quarter, revenues of $7.8 billion were up 9%. That is 4% organically driven by the higher volume. Renewables revenue was up 31% to $1.1 billion. We shipped 366 wind turbines versus 349 last year, but the growth came from more 2.5 megawatt units, so we had some mix impact there.

For thermal, the revenues were down 15%. We shipped 9 fewer gas turbines, 32 this year in the first quarter versus 41 last year, and Service revenues of $3.7 billion were also up 9%. Segment profit was down 9%. The benefits that we received from the higher volume were more than offset by lower price on wind and we had net $115 million of higher programs and global investments, and we also had a small benefit of $29 million for the results of Dresser and Lineage in the quarter.

On the bottom on the right, you can see Oil and Gas orders for the business were up 7% driven by Equipment orders up 11% and Service orders up 3%. Wellstream added 4 points to the orders in the first quarter. Orders here are also lumpy on a quarterly basis. We had a strong growth in petrochemicals and refineries and strong growth in drilling and production, both up over 60% and that was partially offset by lower orders in both Turbomachinery and Natural Gas segments.

Revenues of $1.8 billion in the quarter were up 12% driven by the growth in Equipment up 17% and good strong Services up 6% and segment profit of $199 million was up 4% as the benefits of higher volume and deflation were partially offset by negative foreign exchange and higher program investments.

So overall, we expect Energy to continue to be down in the second quarter and then we will see Energy returning to growth in the second half of the year.

Now we don't have the businesses split in the Technology Infrastructure anymore, so I will cover them separately. We will start with Aviation. The Aviation market remained strong in the quarter. Orders of $5.1 billion were up 14%; commercial engine orders of $1.2 billion were up 111% driven by GE90, CFM and small commercial and that was partially offset by military engine orders of $600 million being down 36%, principally driven by less funding on the Joint Strike Fighter.

The Equipment orders price was down 0.4%. We ended the quarter with a backlog of $20.4 billion, up 3% versus last year. In the quarter, Service orders of $2.8 billion were up 14%, driven by strong spares. In the quarter, our commercial spare parts orders were $25.4 million per day. That was up 32% and that was partially offset by military services, which were down 1%.

Revenue of $4.4 billion was up 5% driven by the Equipment up 3% and Services up 7%. Segment profit, $841 million, was up 5%. That was driven by the higher volume. It was driven by positive pricing and that was partially offset by no repeat of the first quarter of '10 service franchise fee with [Texel] that generated $74 million last year and as we go through the year, R&D and launch costs are going to continue to ramp up in the second, third and fourth quarter.

On the right side, Transportation had a very good quarter. The market continued to improve. Domestic rail volumes were up 5%. Parked locomotives were down 5% from year-end. The orders of $938 million were flat, but that included one multiyear locomotive order last year for almost $300 million that didn't repeat. Service orders were very strong in the quarter, $500 million, up 25% and our Equipment backlog closed at $4.1 billion, up 40% over last year.

Our revenues of $900 million were up 18% driven by higher volume. Equipment revenues were up 12%. We shipped 30% more mining and off-highway vehicle units and locomotive revenues were about flat. Service revenues were up 23% on the strong parts sales. And segment profit of $157 million was up 37% reflecting the higher volume and the stronger services.

Next is Healthcare. The Healthcare team delivered another quarter of positive growth while they continued to reinvest. Orders of $4.1 billion were up 9%. Equipment orders of $2.1 billion were also up 9% driven by Healthcare Solutions up 10%. We saw a strong growth in Healthcare Solutions. Just to go around the world a little bit, Eastern Europe and the Middle East were up 37%; China was up 18%; India was up 41%; and then in the developed world, Europe was up 2%; the Americas were up 5%.

Service orders in the quarter were up 9% and the Equipment backlog of $3.9 billion ended up 6% versus last year. Revenue of $4.1 billion was up 10%. It was pretty broad-based. If you go by product, Ultrasound was up 21% in the quarter; Devices were up 13%; CT was up 13%; MR was up 3%; Life Sciences were up 15%; X-ray was up 6%; and Services were up 8%. And then segment profit of $531 million was up 7% and that was driven by the higher volume, it was driven by positive productivity and that was partially offset by negative price and about $50 million of higher investments in new products.

And finally on the right side, you can see H&BS. We had revenues of just under $2 billion; they were up 3%. We had strong revenue growth in Intelligent Platforms. The revenue was up 19%. Lighting was up 6% and Appliances was down 1% in the quarter. The segment profit in the segment was up 4%. We continue to see lower pricing and pretty heavy discounting in the Appliance market. Lighting continued to benefit from our prior restructuring. And for the year, we still expect H&BS to be about flat as we ramp up again more new product investments. So with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. I thought I would give you a brief update on Japan where I visited two weeks ago. Our first priority is to support our people through humanitarian efforts and offer technical support to our customers and we are doing all those things. We are also providing substantial power generation equipment to help meet the country's needs in 2011 and '12.

Financially, as Keith mentioned earlier, we experienced about a $50 million negative earnings impact in the first quarter in Healthcare, Energy and Capital. Going forward, we see limited supply chain and market impacts for the year. I would say it is more or less in balance. It may impact timing, but overall results probably won't be impacted for GE for the year. Again, we are very focused on helping Japan recover and rebound and rebuild and our teams are working diligently to support our customers in Japan.

Now to update the 2011 operating framework. Industrial is about as planned with Energy, as Keith said, turning positive in the second half of '11. We really believe that acquisition integration and we are really encouraged by an increase in gas turbine quote activity. We think those factors give us good momentum for our Energy business as we get to the second half of '11 and go into 2012.

GE Capital, as Keith reviewed, is improving rapidly really in every dimension and Corporate is about as planned. So for 2011, we really see some very solid operating earnings growth, CFOA between $12 billion and $13 billion, mid single digit industrial organic growth and I would say after the first quarter, we are even more confident in the 2011 operating framework for GE and the outlook going forward.

So just to summarize again some of the high points of the quarter, I think capital allocation is key for GE. We have announced our third dividend increase in the last nine months, up 50% in that time period. The buyback and dividend take priority as we get to the second half of the year. I think we have executed a good acquisition strategy as we redeployed capital from NBC Universal into the Energy business and we plan to redeem the preferred shares in the fourth quarter.

Very solid GE Capital earnings growth, higher margins. We are having good asset growth in target segments. Losses are declining and the balance sheet is safer and stronger. I think we are in really good shape for accelerating industrial earnings growth. It is positive in 2011, should accelerate in 2012. All the precursors are in place, good Equipment orders, backlog growth, good Service orders and international growing double digits and we are investing to build competitive advantage. R&D is in place. I think the new products that we are launching are showing up in our increasing order rates. The global growth of 12% says we are participating in the parts of the world that are experiencing growth and the strategic acquisitions in Energy and Healthcare I think really position those businesses well for the long term.

So that is an update on the quarter. Trevor, let me turn it back to you and we can take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith. Tom, I think we are ready to open the lines for questions now.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks. I was intrigued by the commentary -- definitely sounds like a better outlook for you in gas turbines than what you were thinking as recently as December or January. Could you give a little bit more color sort of by region what you are seeing? Because I think last year you had 96 gas turbine orders globally. Can you give a sense of, given we are now in late April, what your view is on gas turbine orders for this year?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, look, Julian, I would say that the outlook does feel a little better. If you remember at the end of the year when we met and talked about what the outlook was going to be, we had about 112, 113 gas turbines last year in shipment. We said we would be down about 10.

Today the team is working on looking at opportunities to maybe be at least flat and put some more in the production schedule if we could to be prepared for the growth that we are seeing, some incoming orders activity, inquiries and things like that that we're working on.

Obviously, the Middle East has been very strong for us. It continues to be strong. We had one order in the quarter out of the orders we had for gas turbines in the US, so I think that is an activity that has to pick up as we go forward. And clearly, as Jeff said, we are really trying to help our customers in Japan. There is an awful lot of capacity that is out and they are trying to put as much power in place as they can to prepare for the summer, and also to deal with the fact that they have got to replace a lot of power.

So I think the team is cautiously optimistic about it, but the outlook is good. We are ramping up the PSI, our outlook for production a little bit in the business and for 2011, it might be at least flat, maybe better and 2012 should be better on top of that.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Julian, there is a confluence of maybe five factors that are going on more or less at the same time. One is clearly global growth in the emerging markets; the second is the need to provide more infrastructure as part of the Japan rebuild; the third is lower natural gas pricing overall; the fourth would be wherever the environmental standards end up in the United States; and then I think the fifth is, and this will be decided by our customers, not by us, is where does the long-term capacity get added, vis-a-vis coal, nuclear, gas, as people add new blocks of power going forward. So I think all those things make us a little bit more bullish on the gas turbine market.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Thanks, and just a quick follow-up. The pricing environment -- I guess it is down -- it is a little bit better in terms of a year-on-year decline on the thermal pricing in Q1 versus where you were in Q4. But we saw one of your global peers say they are joint venturing their boilers business with someone in China. So how do you see sort of the competitive landscape? Is there much changing for you or you think that as volumes recover, pricing will naturally tick up in the order intake in the second half as well?

JEFF IMMELT: That has been the historic pattern, Julian. I think Energy tends to be a later cycle recovery item. And so the pricing you saw last year was really what played out in the first quarter and that has historically been the pattern of I would say price activity. The good news is --.

KEITH SHERIN: It follows supply and demand. I mean I think right now, we are still dealing with a place where the global capacity was pretty strong and then today I think the demand situation has changed.

JEFF IMMELT: One of the strengths of our Energy business is the supply chain and our sourcing and things like that and I think that we are flexible, we are fast and we do a good job on deflation.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, gentlemen. Hey, just wondering if we could clarify, just taking a couple of questions on the Garanti gain, was that in your operating framework before and we just didn't know exactly the timing? Is that the right way to frame it?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Last year, when we announced the transaction in November, we actually put out a press release that said we were going to have about a $300 million after-tax gain and we thought it would close in the first half and then when we knew it was going to close in the first quarter, we announced that. So I think it has been part of what we have had in the framework all along. We had $300 million after-tax, as I said and then that business had about $60 million of earnings a quarter that we won't have any more as we go forward.

TERRY DARLING: Perfect. Okay, that's helpful. And then just coming back to the comment on Energy margins, I think I thought I heard Jeff indicate that that should improve throughout the year. And then, Keith, I thought I heard you say down in 2Q, up in the second half. Maybe you were talking profit dollars and Jeff was talking percent margins, but could we just clarify that?

JEFF IMMELT: I was talking total company, Terry. The margin rates tend to --.

KEITH SHERIN: First quarter is the lowest.

JEFF IMMELT: First quarter always is the lowest for us total company and I think Keith was talking more just Energy.

KEITH SHERIN: And I think the direction -- the gap that we saw in Energy quarter-over-quarter, that profile is driven by factors that will continue through the year -- the renewals pricing, the higher investments in programs and global growth and then the dilution from the acquisition. That profile is pretty similar as you go through the year for Energy itself.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. And then just shifting over to Aero, I wonder if you would talk about any update on profile of R&D and implications for margins for Aero overall. You have got a lot of pieces in the mix there with the aftermarket getting a little better. Maybe you can just break some of those pieces down and talk about military too.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the profile for R&D for Aviation, R&D plus launch costs has not changed for us for the total year. We do expect to have that ramp up as we go through the year. The R&D actually was less in the first quarter year-over-year than last year based on some timing issues. But through the year, we expect to see a ramp-up of the GEnx obviously. We shipped 13 GEnxes in the quarter. As you know, the 787 should be certified and delivering in the third and fourth quarter. And the 747 with the GEnx on it is already just about through all of its certification tests. The engine is done; the plane is still finalizing. And so those are going to ramp up and R&D is going to ramp up as we ramp up on the TechX and the LeapX.

So I think as you go through the year, you are going to see continued reinvestment in Aviation but the offset is the strength of Services. We feel pretty good about it. We are looking for when are you going to see it last year based on utilization improving, revenue passenger miles and freight passenger miles up. And you can see that in the order rate up 30%. We feel pretty good about that order rate and the outlook from the team is that that should continue to be strong for us.

TERRY DARLING: And then, Keith, could you just refresh us on what that year-over-year increase in Aviation R&D is now expected at?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, Aviation, just on R&D itself, is supposed to be up I think about -- just one second -- for the total year, it is supposed to grow about 15% to 20% to about $1.7 billion.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, great. And then lastly --.

KEITH SHERIN: Somewhere in that range.

TERRY DARLING: Just lastly, obviously, nice to see that stronger performance at GE Capital. And Jeff, I wonder if you could comment on the potential that that better performance pulls forward, the confidence in the GE Capital dividend back to parent and implications for buyback and additional dividend increases from a timing standpoint?

KEITH SHERIN: We are obviously feeling pretty good about the progress in GE Capital. You can see the capital ratios, you can see the pretax earnings growth, you can see some stabilization in Real Estate. So I think all those signs are good. There are some uncertainties we have. As you know, the Fed will transition to be our regulator in the summer here. So I think the team feels good about it. We have made a lot of progress. We think we are going to be above what the levels are of capital required for all the different criteria, but that isn't exactly finalized as you know as well. And then we have got to transition to a new regulator, so our objective is to, as you know, at a minimum, pay a dividend in 2012. And if we could work on that earlier than that, obviously, we would love to do that.

But right now, the only thing we have in the plan is that we will restart the dividend from Capital in '12, but, obviously, the progress continues to be pretty strong and I think it was also encouraging when we saw what the banks were able to do this year between the dividends and the buyback based on their capital and stress case plan. So we are going to work on that.

JEFF IMMELT: The only thing I would add is that, Terry, is, look, I think the major transactions we had planned on doing we have done and so dividend and buyback I think take a higher priority as I look at the rest of the year. So I think that is the way I would -- that is the perspective we had. We like the deals we did. We think they were opportunistic and strategic and help our Energy business, but, again, I think what Keith said, we feel really great about where GE Capital is positioned and I think priorities in the second half of the year will tend towards dividend and buyback.

TERRY DARLING: We will look forward to it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. I want to switch gears and talk a little bit about Healthcare and a couple things. I think, Keith, you said that R&D was up $50 million in the quarter. Now maybe you meant for the year, so some clarification on that. And then maybe you can talk about why R&D has had to come up in this business. I mean my understanding is that there was a bit of a pullback in the arms race, if you will, that would require less R&D spend with Healthymagination. Am I reading things wrong?

KEITH SHERIN: First, let me clarify, we did have about $50 million of increased spending year-over-year in new product launches, about $30 million of that was related to our Home Health joint venture with Intel. So that is a new business we have gone into. And also investments in our Solutions business, the consulting business that we are growing and providing a lot of help to hospitals as they manage the need to lower their costs and become more efficient. So about $30 million of that is there and then about $20 million is higher NPI for new products. We launched about 45 or 50 new products in the quarter, so we have just really ramped up R&D globally. Omar Ishrak has got control of the entire business and he has got a terrific model where we have breakthrough technology. Then we flow that down through the productline and we are trying to make sure we have products at every price point as we participate in these global emerging market growth opportunities.

So I think, in some cases, a couple years ago, we were behind in MR. We have caught back up and we have got a great position in CT and today, I think the team really likes the position we have across the entire productline.

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I would just add to what Keith said to say, look, we expect this business to have operating profit rate expansion for the year. Productivity costs, our share position is good to improving and I fully expect Healthcare to have operating profit rate expansion in 2Q through 4Q.

KEITH SHERIN: Totally agree.

SCOTT DAVIS: You mean expansion beyond the 7% you showed this quarter, is that what you mean, Jeff?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I mean --.

KEITH SHERIN: Absolutely.

JEFF IMMELT: I mean I would say double-digit plus operating profit growth and expanding margin rates in Healthcare.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Yes, no, I totally understand. Okay, I know this is -- it is early days in Japan and the tragedies there, but it is a big part of your -- it is a fairly large healthcare market overall, and I think it is a fairly important part of your overall mix, if memory serves me right. But what do you hear from the local guys? Is there going to be money diverted from spending on things like healthcare for the rebuilding effort? Does it not change? I mean is there any sense at all of direction or is it just too early?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I just think it is too early. We don't have anything to -- if you go back to the Kobe earthquake, right, there was more stimulus put into the overall economy in Japan after that, but I just -- I just think it is too early to tell what the impact is going to be.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And last question, Keith. Some of your competitors -- GECAS competitors -- ILFC, etc. -- have taken write-downs in their fleets to reflect a couple of changes. Obviously, new aircraft that is efficient, higher oil prices, it's kind of up, increase the obsolescence of some of the craft. Is the GECAS portfolio, as you see it right now, pretty much marked to market?

KEITH SHERIN: Absolutely. We basically have to do our appraisals every year and we have to adjust and you see us take impairments when we go through those reviews if we need to based on current views of asset values or specific customer situations.

I did see that there was a write-down on the A320 family for ILFC and I think it might be interesting to take a look at the differences in how companies depreciate equipment. Most companies depreciate aircraft on a straight line over 25 years to a 15% residual and we assume a 20-year life to 90% of our average or appraised value, which results in an annual depreciation percent that is higher than what a lot of competitors have. So we feel pretty good about our values and we did look at what they did and we absolutely feel good about where we are at GECAS.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Well, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Can you just talk a little bit more about the outlook for gas turbines in the US. So you are talking about only having one order there and a lot of the activities in the Middle East. When you talk about the actual quotation activity, can you maybe give us some parameters around -- I know quotation activity is a high-level comment, but is there any way to tell us what kind of a magnitude it is in the activity globally? So is it 50/50 US? I am just curious as to the plans of your customers in the US that you are seeing there.

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have any specific numbers on quote activity in the US. I mean I think what we are basically looking at is the dynamics have really changed subsequent to the disaster and tragedy in Japan. You see people canceling their plans to continue development of new nuclear plants. Clearly, coal has issues from an environmental perspective and is challenging from a cost and technology perspective to be competitive. We have put a lot of renewable energy into the system, especially in the US, but globally and with gas prices where they are, that is a challenge to make that as economic as it needs to be for financing.

And so you come back to what is going to be the power of choice. It is going to be gas. And we think we are well-positioned there. We still have reserve margins here in this country, but as you look at retirements and replacement and then new economic growth, we think the outlook is going to be pretty good. I don't have specific order quoting numbers and I don't know even if I had it whether I would tell you what they were.

STEVE TUSA: (inaudible) talk specifics, but just in general, it sounds like you are seeing a pretty nice uptick in dialogue with your US customers. I guess that is more the question at a high level.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, I think that is right. The other thing I would say, Steve, is I think we could see a nice increase in gas turbine demand even with the US demand not being anywhere close to 50% of it really.

KEITH SHERIN: Totally, you look at Russia, you look at Iraq.

JEFF IMMELT: So you have a lot of other stuff going on, Iraq phase 2; Russia, as Keith said. There is more interest in China today in gas turbines.

KEITH SHERIN: Saudi Arabia needs power.

JEFF IMMELT: So it is all that kind of activity that we are seeing as well.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. And then one other question, this was just in the news the other day is the only reason I am asking, but the Board reset the comp package I guess talking about operating cash flow at a minimum of $55 billion over a four-year period and I think there was something about outperforming the S&P 500 as well. I am just curious as to the message that you want us to take away from that because the operating cash flow number I think over a four-year period is only really up modestly from where we are today. And then outperforming the S&P 500, is that something we should think about, GE stock as kind of a comp versus the S&P 500 as opposed to your more industrial peers, like the other guys in our sector? I am just kind of curious as to the message or at least the message that you would like to kind of have us take away from that change.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, I think what we did is we reverted back to kind of the formula we have had in place since 2003, which really set two benchmarks. One was an S&P performance and the other one was a CFOA growth target. So look, I believe in performance shares. I think it is a good way for CEOs to be compensated and that is really what it says. I think we will continue to give you a framework that can spell out what we think we can do, but we want the Company to outperform.

KEITH SHERIN: Those were the same targets that we had (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: Those were similar targets (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers). All we did was took out the 2010 cash flow.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So you have addressed several of the issues related to Japan, including commercial real estate. And I have seen the release related to the channeling law, but has there been any indication that there could be any potential liability related to the disaster in Japan and is there anything else at Finance that we should think about, maybe Shinsei losses creeping up over time or anything else?

JEFF IMMELT: I think on the channeling law, it is really clear and been written about by a lot of different people. So I would just -- I think all the things we have said in the past still hold true today and we haven't seen any indications that anything would counter that and mainly because I think it is so clear.

KEITH SHERIN: On the other exposures, as you said, we put a little bit up for property damage in Japan, $15 million, and then some reserves, $15 million in the CLL business. But other than that, we really haven't seen any direct impact. We have got Real Estate, we have got Commercial loans and leases, we have got Aviation in there and we did a pretty good review of our portfolio with the teams.

On Shinsei, on the gray zone, we have seen elevated claims as part of the Takefuji bankruptcy. As everybody knows, those claims really started to decline after the bankruptcy period closed and they have continued to decline in April. And right now, the trend on claims looks pretty good; however, we are going to have to see how they normalize in Q2 and Q3. But it is obviously hard to determine what are some of the events that throw some of those claim declines in this period given some of the challenges in Japan. But right now, the trend looks pretty good.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, and also, you spent a fair amount of time talking about better opportunities for gas turbines given new EPA regulations, Fukushima and everything else. Has there been any change in sentiment since the EPA regulations came out since the Fukushima disaster related to renewables? And potentially also whether you have some new opportunities perhaps for the offshore wind turbine launch, particularly in Europe?

KEITH SHERIN: They are all positive. I think we are investing a lot into wind obviously. We are shipping a lot of 2.5 megawatt units, which are a good value proposition. We are doing a lot globally, so we are investing a lot in wind and we think the business has a future.

I think, right now, we are dealing with just the decline in the US market and the change in margins that we had in that market. But overall, we are very committed to it and I think you must've seen recently our investments in solar, the announcement that we are going to build a very large solar plant here and have the highest efficiency in the marketplace for thin-film solar.

So renewables is a big part of the business. I think it is going to be a part of our portfolio. We are investing a lot in it and we are just kind of weathering this decline in the shipment of the very profitable US backlog and then the replacement of that in the wind business.

JASON FELDMAN: Great, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Actually, GE Capital had a great quarter, but maybe you could just take a minute and go through the reserve walk. You went by it pretty quickly in the summary and it looks like you say write-offs were greater than new provisions so that -- and that is a big reason why reserves came down I wonder, but maybe just give us a view over the balance of the year, Keith, and what we should expect there. And even ex-Garanti, the numbers look good. Should we expect sequential earnings growth out of GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, just first on the reserves. I think the profile will continue where you see write-offs higher than the new credit cost provisions. If you look at the percent of the new credit cost provision, it is somewhere around 1.45%. That goes back to what I would call more normal historical levels. So I think that probably is a good indicator of what we could expect going forward as long as this portfolio continues to demonstrate improvements and delinquency in non-earning. So I think that dynamic will continue if you look at provisions, new provisions for losses at somewhere around that level.

The other dynamic that you have is impairments coming down and that is going to depend upon how we see the market for the real estate equity book and as I said, we have seen some positive indicators there and year-over-year, it is obviously down quite a bit. So I think the outlook is pretty good for improvements in profitability driven by lower credit losses. You see it in the fourth quarter, you see it in the first quarter. I don't see any reason why that wouldn't continue.

For the total year, how do we feel about it? Obviously, if you look at GE Capital's results, they are better. You take out Garanti and even if you normalize for not having Garanti's earnings going forward, you are going to see a terrific performance out of GE Capital this year. As Jeff said, we feel very confident about our framework.

BOB CORNELL: Is there any seasonality in that business that I don't recall? I mean obviously you had these tremendous ups and downs the last couple of years. But in a normal year, what kind of seasonality would be if the first quarter typically the low point of the year, I mean what can we expect as a trend rate over the course of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: We used to have a big bump in the third quarter, but I think we have really normalized and are pretty level. I can't think of one thing that has really popped out as a seasonality item today in GE Capital.

BOB CORNELL: Second question for me, I was trying to ask a question earlier, when I got on when I was on mute, about the Joint Strike Fighter engine. I mean you are going to continue to work on that engine for a while, but what is sort of the GE view of that engine and might you continue funding the development of that engine? I understand it is nearly complete. What is the outlook there?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, Bob, I think the engine is 85% complete. We are going to keep a small team in place to continue to work on development and see where we go with the 2012 budget cycle. Our basic thesis remains the same, which is this saves $20 billion over the life of the program. It has enjoyed bipartisan support for a lot of years. It is a program that has been over budget and this is one of the ways to get competition back in the game.

KEITH SHERIN: Our engine actually has been the model engine in the whole Joint Strike Fighter program, which is over budget, not our engine. So it is really --.

JEFF IMMELT: So we are going to keep the team together.

BOB CORNELL: Keep the team together. Okay, thanks, you guys.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning. So on ENI, we are getting close to the target here. I mean what is the plan if you get there pretty soon? I mean do we start to ramp up on CLL or do we shrink the business further? Where do you go from there?

KEITH SHERIN: We feel pretty good about the progress here, but we have a plan to continue to run off the red assets and grow the green assets and you can see the runoff of the red assets is happening faster than we thought. We had more success with dispositions. I think that has been very positive and maybe given us a little more room for growth on the CLL side even earlier than we thought. And our investment in the green assets, the growth in CLL volume, the growth in the Consumer volume have been very strong. So we are not planning on going below the 440 ENI target for 2012. We plan on getting there in an orderly way and I don't see any change to it.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And on the Commercial Real Estate piece, I mean the last couple of quarters, you have been able to sell a decent amount of properties at kind of a small gain. Could we see some of the opposite of maybe some opportunistic sales of other pieces at losses or how do you think about winding that down and opportunities now that things have stabilized?

KEITH SHERIN: Depends on the economics really. If we believe we have got value in the property, we are going to do what we need to get the most attractive value and I think our headset on that is proven out through this cycle. I would not anticipate large sales at significant losses in the Real Estate business. We believe in our properties and our values. We feel like we are going to be able to recover them on the equity side and that is coming true. We are also reducing our bases obviously with depreciation and write-offs and we feel pretty good about the outlook. So we will be opportunistic, but I don't see big sales at significant losses.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. Just last one, I don't know if I missed it, but tax rates by the pieces for the rest of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we haven't really given much of a forecast there. I will tell you, if you look at the rates in the first quarter, the GE rate ex-GECS was 22% ex-the NBCU gain. I wouldn't expect the rate to be higher than that for the year. There are some, as we go through the year, other opportunities that teams are working on that may bring that down slightly, but we will be around the 20% I would say for the year would be the estimate today.

And on the GE Capital rate at 18% in the quarter, I think you're going to be in the mid-teens for GE Capital as you go forward. We had a pretty high tax on the Garanti gain and other than that, the entire profile of GE Capital was a normal rate on the pretax earnings and our benefits, our structural benefits were a little under $400 million, which is probably the run rate for the year today.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: So Tom, we have had several requests to keep this to an hour, so we have got about five minutes more. We would like to take everyone's call. If everybody could keep it to kind of one question and then we will wrap up within five minutes here.

OPERATOR: Steve Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVE WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hey, good morning. So I will keep it to one. We've covered a lot of ground. China, give us a sense, if you could, for what you are seeing impact given some of the macro energy complex decelerating, what you are experiencing there and maybe an overview. Thanks.

JEFF IMMELT: The overall revenues were up 12% in the quarter. What I would say, Steve, is that the Healthcare business saw a pretty normal quarter with growth close to 20%. I think it was like 18%, something like that.

KEITH SHERIN: A little higher.

JEFF IMMELT: A little higher. Aviation has got an outstanding backlog and that I think is pretty secure. We won a lot of business last year, which will play through. And like I said earlier, the 12, 5-year plan really emphasizes environmental investing. So I think we are going to see some good opportunities in our Energy business as we go through next year as well. So top line I think was 12% revenue growth and we don't see anything that suggests it should be less than that as we go through the year.

STEVE WINOKER: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Bank of America.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Just as a quick clarification, there wasn't a restructuring offset to the Garanti bank gain, was there?

KEITH SHERIN: Not in GE Capital, no. The only restructuring was on the page I covered on other items in the Corporate side. A little bit of that was in Capital, but we covered it on that page.

JOHN INCH: Yes, okay. Just wanted to make sure there was nothing else. The upcoming -- so my question is the upcoming stress tests with the Fed, is there -- I mean how do you guys think about your real estate book? I mean I am just sort of trying to think if -- what could be a land mine is the fact that you still have these embedded losses in your real estate book that is not really accounted for the same way as say the banks do. Could that be some sort of a source of pressure that they would say, look, just write this down and kind of all systems go type a thing or how do you think we should think about that?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't think so. I think you should think that we have been doing stress tests a couple times a year. We do have regulators who are regulated by the Office of Thrift Supervision and the FDIC and we do do stress test two times a year and we do have to basically think through and be comparable to what the banks go through with their formal SCAB tests.

So I would say we have been through it a couple of cycles now and we feel pretty good about the process we use and the stress that we put our portfolio through to make sure that we have enough capital and enough liquidity. But the only difference is that obviously, as you say, is a new regulator. But we have got a lot of input. We are dealing with a lot of third parties who are obviously industry experts. We have hired people from the industry to help us with this who are on our team directly who are industry and regulatory experts. And I don't think that that is something different that could be dramatic as we go forward here.

JOHN INCH: Thanks, Keith.

OPERATOR: Chris Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, just a lot on the -- one on the gas turbine side, just switching over to wind quickly. Any thoughts on what you are seeing marketshare-wise there taking advantage of the downturn? I know you weren't afraid to use price and then thoughts on an eventual recovery shaping up there.

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I think as the AWEA data came out in January I believe, we had about 50% marketshare in the US and then smaller in Europe and the rest of the world. I would say in the first quarter, a lot of our deals were in places like Brazil and Canada, things like that.

What I have always thought, Chris, is that we really do have the lowest cost and the highest reliability in the industry. And I include in there the Chinese competitors. So it gives us a lot of strategic flexibility when we look at this space. And so even as the market goes through cycles, I think we approach it from a position of strength. I don't think we have anything in mind today, but this -- if you just look at the landscape and we have always had a philosophy of having broad fuel capability so that we don't have to -- we are in nuclear, we are in coal, we are in gas, we are in wind, we are in solar we are in a lot of different things. I like our position in gas turbines and wind turbines and I think it is going to play out over the next three to five years that those too will have a good future.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the one thing you see happening in our wind business is we are becoming better globally. We had such a terrific position in the US market, but today with the market where it is in the US, we are really competing effectively globally. And that is going to make us a better business.

And the second thing, obviously, is the offshore wind business, which is going to grow and we are investing and we should have a significant position there as well. So as we said earlier, we like our position in wind and we like the outlook for the business. It is just we are working through this backlog that was pretty lucrative that the margins on the new orders are lower.

CHRIS GLYNN: Got it. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Hi, guys. Trevor, we are over an hour here, so I will keep this really quick. Jeff, I thought the timing of the dividend announcement was interesting. And I just wondered what is the message you want to convey with that dividend increase. And then secondarily, are we into an era of opportunistic dividend increases or is your intention to go back to sort of an annual December announcement?

JEFF IMMELT: I think what we want to convey is just a confidence in the Company first and foremost and the fact that, for a broad base of investors, the dividend is important and we think that is a good message to send today, good on -- good confidence in the Company, the fact that we have I think really effectively redeployed the capital from NBCU, the focus is really on dividend buyback now and just the broad importance of the dividend.

I think where we are going to is going to be -- we want the dividend to be an effective payout ratio, a good yield, very reliable. And so over time, we are going to get back to an annual dividend increase that we do that investors can count on and we will just see how that plays out. But I think overarching I want it to be confidence in the Company.

NIGEL COE: Great, thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Keeping that quick, Nigel, I think we have time -- we are running over, so we will take one more question and then I have some announcements at the end.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITI: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hey, just to stay on the topic of capital allocation, we got the message on focus on dividends, buybacks, acquisitions basically done for 2011. How about divestitures? I know I have asked this before, but -- and Jeff, you have said this is the best portfolio you have had since you have been CEO, but are there opportunities for further portfolio reshaping?

JEFF IMMELT: I just don't see it right now. Again, I think what we want to do is run the portfolio, the capital -- the infrastructure capital portfolio we have, get very well -- execute well in '11, get positioned for simultaneous industrial and financial service growth in '12 in that portfolio, generate a lot of cash and have a lot of optionality around what we do from a capital allocation standpoint.

So I just -- I think we are going to generate a lot of good cash flow this year. I think a lot of people have asked about the capital dividend. Our expectation is that capital restores its dividend at some point and that provides additional cash over time. And so I just want to -- we want to execute this play with excellence and our investors will benefit from that.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thank you, everyone. Just a couple of housekeeping items and some announcements here. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental schedule for GE Capital also later today.

And here are a couple of announcements. Next week on Wednesday, April 27 is our 2011 Annual Shareholders Meeting in Salt Lake City and we hope to see you there. On May 18, Jeff will be presenting at the annual EPG conference, so that will be the next big presentation. Our second-quarter 2011 earnings webcast will also be held on July 22 for your calendars.

And then finally, we will be hosting a GE Energy meeting with special emphasis on Oil and Gas later this year on September 20 in the afternoon. We will provide you more details regarding the meeting logistics at second-quarter earnings, but we do expect to hold this meeting in the New York area and as always, JoAnna and I will be available to take your calls and questions today. Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
irenewee : Renewable Energy Equipment | iindstrls : Industrials | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | mcoal : Coal Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | m14 : Commodity Markets | m143 : Energy Markets | mcat : Commodity/Financial Market News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110505e74l0033a
  


 HD
 Q4  2010  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,194 words
   PD
21 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Michael and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Michael. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's fourth-quarter and total year 2010 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are available for download and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor. As always, we will have time for Q&A at the end.

   TD
Elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes, so please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor, thanks. Good morning, everyone. I want to give you, on the first page, an overview of a really good quarter for the Company and confirm a strong outlook as we think about 2011. The environment continues to improve. Really it is broader and deeper as we look across the portfolio, but good strength in orders, losses are down, credit demand is up, across the rail and aircraft market, very strong (inaudible).

As I have said in the past, we just think the economy (technical difficulty) a little bit stronger every day. We had good top-line performance, the best in a while, 6% industrial organic growth and then infrastructure orders up 12%, equipment up 20%, services up 5%. We end the year with a very strong backlog.

Earnings growth continues to improve, continuing EPS up 33%, Capital had another very strong quarter and total industrial segment profit, including NBC, was up 8%. We did do a lot of restructuring in the quarter. We had $0.10 industrial tax benefits offset by $0.10 restructuring and other charges, including the Hudson remediation. And so I think what we have been able to do is significantly risk reduce 2011.

Our execution was strong. CFOA on the high end. We end with a lot of cash on the balance sheet, operating profit rates at 17.5%. The Capital portfolio transformation is advancing. We had a very good value gap in 2010. We built our operating plans in '11 expecting a lower value gap and we are executing I think a balanced and disciplined capital allocation plan. We bought back $1.8 billion of stock. We have had two dividend increases. The first-quarter '11 dividend will be 40% higher than the first quarter of '10 and we are executing on valuable infrastructure acquisitions. So again, I think a good overview for the Company.

On the next page, orders grew at 12%. This is the highest order intake since 2007. We end 2010 with a record backlog and it is very broad-based. I think if you look across the Energy segments, Oil and Gas was very strong, services growing. We still expect Energy equipment to turn positive in 2011, but a lot of good signs. Aviation, again, very strong, Healthcare growth continues and Transportation recovery, there is fewer locomotives parked. We had 240 North American locos. So again, we feel very good about the backlog and how we are positioned going forward just given the overall strength of our order base.

On the next page on execution, our segment operating profit rate was up 10 basis points. Again, as I said, a positive value gap, Healthcare volume leverage. Aviation was impacted by some one-time costs in the fourth quarter and we think that improves going into 2011. And then R&D was a full point of impact and we grew our operating profit rate despite the fact that we have increased R&D investment by 21%. And so we enter 2011 with a full backlog of products. Really the R&D spend is in our run rate and we just see 50 new NPIs in Healthcare, significant global investment in country for country. So we really have a great foundation for organic growth and we were able to deliver on operations while investing for future growth.

On the next page on cash, our cash flow ended up at the high end of our range at $14.7 billion. We improved our working capital turns by one full turn and if you look at the right hand side of the page, our consolidated cash is $79 billion -- cash at the parent is a record in my history at $19 billion. And you can just see the way we executed this year on CFOA dispositions. And so we really enter 2011 with a lot of financial flexibility and just a lot of cash -- available cash at the parent. So we feel good about that.

Lastly, before I turn it over to Keith, really a lot has happened, vis-a-vis NBCU, since the December meeting. I think when we were together in December, we thought we would close the NBCU transaction. That slipped into January. We should close the transaction next Friday.

As we said, this is a high pretax gain, a small after-tax gain. We will have about a $3 billion tax charge that will impact the GE tax rate in 2011. So we were booking at that higher rate through the third quarter. Keith will go through this in a little bit more detail. We reversed that in the fourth quarter. We will have a higher tax rate in the first quarter of '11 and for the total year.

We still expect about $0.05 EPS impact from the NBCU going from 80% to 49% in 2011 and we will use the gain to fund additional restructuring in 2011. There is no change to the overall outlook of how we think about 2011 or 2010 from this because any gain will be used against restructuring, but it does change the tax rate. (technical difficulty)

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: (technical difficulty) as you said, we are going to have a pretax gain plus a high tax charge, it doesn't change the EPS.

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly. Yes, not at all. And then from a parent cash standpoint, we ended the year at $19 billion. Once we close next Friday, we will have about $22 billion of cash and we plan to continue to execute a balanced and disciplined capital allocation program. You've seen what we have done with the dividends. We have relaunched the buyback and then we have announced four transactions that are really right over the plate for us in our sweet spot in energy and healthcare. Really the right sized deals are going to help us grow. So this is really I think a good news page for investors. So with that, let me turn it over to Keith to go through the fourth-quarter financials.

KEITH SHERIN: Okay, Jeff, thanks a lot. I am going to start with the fourth-quarter summary. We had continuing operations revenues of $41.4 billion, which were up 1%. Industrial sales at $28.7 billion grew 1% and financial services revenue at $12.8 billion was down 2%. We earned $3.9 billion in net income. That is up 31% and for earnings per share, we earned $0.36, including the cost of the preferred dividends. So earnings per share were up 33%.

As Jeff covered, the total cash flow from operating activities was $14.7 billion for the year, at the high end of our original range. And let me spend a minute on taxes. I think it was one of the more complicated quarters for taxes. We had several large moving parts affecting the fourth quarter. The largest was whether NBC would close. Obviously, that didn't and that had an impact. We also had a potential IRS settlement as they were completing the audit of the 2003 to 2005 tax year and we didn't know exactly what the amount of the settlement would be and whether it would have been completed entirely late in the fourth quarter. And then, finally, we had to estimate how much restructuring we were going to have in the fourth quarter while we were in open negotiations with the EPA over the Hudson.

So here are the details of how those items came out. As we said in the third-quarter call on earnings, we expected a lower than usual tax rate for the fourth quarter due to potential favorable tax settlements with the IRS. Those settlements were finalized in the quarter, which basically with the tax settlements, that led to a very low consolidated rate with the other items of -17% in the quarter.

Absent NBC closing, we expected a GE rate below our third-quarter year-to-date rate of 26%, mostly from those settlements and we ended with a total year rate of 17%. So I tried to do a little walk on the box here just to take you from the 26% third-quarter year-to-date rate down to what we actually realized. About 4 points of the decrease is due to the favorable audit resolutions. We also had anticipated NBC closing and since it didn't close, we had a lower rate in the fourth quarter by about 3 points and finally, the rate is about 2 points lower because of the charges, including the Hudson that we took in the fourth quarter, which are at very high tax rates and other fourth-quarter charges. So I am going to cover more on taxes on the next page, but that is the breakout of how we got from a 26% third-quarter year-to-date rate down to 17%.

For GE Capital, the GECS rate for the fourth quarter goes from a large positive in 2009 to a negative in 2010. That is actually good news. We had $1.8 billion in higher pretax income at GE Capital year-over-year. Obviously, that resulted in a lower tax benefit and for the year, the GECS tax benefit compared to a normal 35% rate came in at about $1.7 billion, in line with the tax benefits we outlined that we expected for the year.

For 2011 for GE, we expect a rate somewhere in the mid 20s, again excluding the NBCU gain and the tax on that gain. I will cover that. For GE Capital, we expect tax benefits similar to 2010. The total year credit was somewhere around $1.7 billion. And that would be adjusted for whatever the impact of higher pretax income is at a 35% rate. So a pretty similar profile on GE Capital in terms of benefits globally in 2011 versus '10.

And on the right side, you can see the segment results. Industrial businesses ex-media had $4.2 billion of segment profit, up 4%. That was led by Tech Infra, H&BS. NBC Universal had a very strong quarter and GE Capital continues to rebound, a net income of $1.056 billion. It is up over 10 times from the fourth quarter of last year, a strong performance.

Overall segment profit up 28% and with corporate taxes about flat year-over-year, the total earnings were up 31%. So it is great to have the top-line growth resume. It is great to have the operating segment profit improving and the tax benefits that we realized in the fourth quarter funded restructuring and other charges. And the next page takes you through that in more detail.

Basically, we had taxes and restructuring and other charges in the quarter and to look at it, during our third-quarter earnings webcast and at the December meeting, we tried to outline this. We said that we expected, with all the open items we had, that overall any charges in the fourth quarter would exceed any positive items, but the biggest change we had in the fourth quarter was the NBC deal didn't close and that resulted in higher tax benefits than we were planning on. And so the charges in the fourth quarter ended up equaling the gains. And let me go through the details.

First is taxes. Overall, we had $0.10 of after-tax favorability from the tax settlements on the NBCU deal delay. We settled 2003 to 2005 year with the IRS resulting in about $0.05 of benefits at Corporate. And the second item for NBC, as you know, under the accounting for taxes APB 28, we have to book our tax rate all year to a full-year expectation and we expected NBCU to close at a high tax rate in December. When NBC didn't close, we had to reverse the adjustments for the first three quarters. In total, that was also about $0.05 of tax benefits in the fourth quarter.

The offset to the tax benefits was mostly in corporate. We had $0.06 of after-tax environmental reserves. We added to our existing reserves for the Phase 2 on Hudson dredging. That was an incremental $0.05 and we had a $0.01 increase for other brownfield site remediations across the Company.

We also booked $0.03 in Corporate for industrial costs and footprint reductions. We had about $0.01 in Appliance and Lighting for ongoing manufacturing rationalization. We continue to see the benefits of the cost out in those businesses. We also have had about $0.01 each in Healthcare and Energy for other cost reductions. And we had $0.01 in Capital Corporate, mostly for Equipment Services downsizing.

So the tax benefits in the fourth quarter, $0.10, were offset by additional restructuring and other charges and the majority of that was also in corporate with $0.01 over in capital corporate.

Now down at the bottom, we also had three items go into discontinued operations in the fourth quarter. We sold our Central American bank to Grupo Aval from Colombia resulting in an $0.08 after-tax gain in disc ops and we announced the sale of RV Marine and our Mexican mortgage business to Santander in the fourth quarter. That resulted in a $0.02 loss in disc ops and those transactions also result in $13 billion of ending net investment reductions. So a nice exit for the GE Capital team, some nonstrategic parts of the portfolio. Overall, a good quarter when you look at the continued restructuring and the long-tail risk reduction.

So let me shift now and I'll start with the businesses. I am going to start with GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team continue to demonstrate that Capital is getting stronger and stronger. Revenue of $11.9 billion was down 4%. It was driven by lower assets and dispositions year-over-year. Pretax earnings of $959 million, that was up $1.8 billion over last year's fourth quarter and the net income of over $1 billion was up over $950 million versus last year. That is driven by lower credit costs. We see that across the portfolio, higher margins and that is partially offset by the lower assets and higher impairments that we had in the quarter.

We ended the year with $477 billion of ending net investment. That is down 9% from January 1. If you remember, we added a bunch of assets as part of the consolidation from FAS 167 and the details of that are in the supplemental schedules that we published this morning.

We are ahead of our ending plan to get to $440 billion by 2012. The team has done a great job executing that. And another highlight would be new volume in the quarter. Commercial volume was up over 50% over last year to $17 billion, mostly driven by our CLL business at good strong margins. You can see the details here and overall, we did $49 billion of volume with Consumer up 3%.

I am going to cover the asset quality metrics in a few pages, so here are some of the comments by business. First is Consumer. Consumer business finished the year with continued strong performance. They delivered $574 million of net. It is up $350 million over last year's fourth quarter, 156% up. And the earnings growth came from lower credit losses and higher margins, partially offset by lower tax benefits.

If you look, the main driver was the US retail business. We earned $362 million. It is up over 700% from last year, driven by the portfolio quality improvements, which led to both lower credit costs and better margins. Our global banking business had a good quarter. They earned $283 million. That is up 85%, driven by lower credit costs again and even in the UK -- the UK home lending business continued to be positive. It earned $62 million in the quarter and our owned Real Estate portfolio was the lowest since the fourth quarter of '08. We are down to 733 properties and we continue to do better than our marks on the properties when we sell them. Our realization was 115% in the fourth quarter.

Commercial Real Estate, the next business, continues to be challenging as we expected. The business lost $409 million of net income. That is $183 million better though than last year and the income improvement was driven by lower credit losses on our debt book. That includes $99 million of recoveries we had on previously reserved accounts. Excluding those recoveries during the fourth quarter, we had about $60 million of after-tax credit losses and that is down $119 million from the third quarter. So we saw improvement in the debt book.

While the credit costs on our debt book were better, the marks and impairments on our equity book were $473 million after-tax in the quarter and that was up about $158 million from third quarter, principally driven by some lower valuations we saw in Japan on some of our owned properties.

While the total losses in the business are still too high, we have seen some improvements here. Delinquencies and non-earnings and credit losses were down from third quarter. We reduced our assets by $13.6 billion, or 16% since January 1 and the unrealized loss on our equity book went from about $7 billion a year ago to about $5 billion in the fourth quarter.

Next is Commercial Lending and Leasing. The team also had a strong quarter with earnings of $567 million. They are up $216 million, or 60%, versus last year. The results were driven by lower losses. Earnings growth was very broad-based. The Americas were up 39%. Europe and the Middle East and Africa was up 60% and Asia was up 22%. GECAS had a good quarter, earnings of $432 million. They were up 50% over last year, driven principally by lower taxes. That was partially offset by about $20 million of higher impairments for some 737 and A318 classics.

The portfolio remains in great shape. We ended the quarter, ended the year with one aircraft on the ground and that is in the process of being released.

And finally, Energy Financial Services also had a positive quarter with earnings of $33 million, up 8%. So overall, a lot of strong execution by business and now I am going to cover asset quality.

On portfolio quality, as you can see in these charts, the measurements continue to improve and in the interest of time, I am just going to summarize a couple of points. For both CLL and Consumer, our delinquencies on our non-earning balances continue to get better. And the one thing I want to point out on the page, on the left side, we have expanded our Commercial delinquency reporting. We used to report delinquency for a subset of CLL. We called it equipment and then for simplicity and clarity, we are now reporting delinquency for all of CLL and the trends are the same on the old basis or this basis. So there is no difference in the lines really in where we are going, but it is a more complete reporting.

So on the left side, our Commercial delinquencies, you can see the percents of delinquency are down. The actual dollars were down over $400 million from Q3 and our non-earning dollars were down $100 million from Q3. The one piece of news here on the left is, on the bottom left, our Real Estate delinquencies declined by 133 basis points in the quarter. That is the first decline in Real Estate delinquencies in nine quarters.

On the right side, you can see the improvements in our Consumer metrics. Consumer delinquencies were down $385 million from the third quarter and non-earnings were down $185 million from the third quarter. So overall strong improvements in the asset quality continue.

Next is a little bit on the reserves. That asset quality improvement that we are seeing is impacting our reserve balance. The reserve balance declined by $800 million you can see from Q3 to Q4. We put the reasons for the decline in the box at the top center of this page. The majority of the decline comes from write-offs exceeding our new loss provision. So we wrote off $2.2 billion of receivables and we added $1.6 billion of new provisions for losses for a net reduction of $600 million.

We also had $200 million of transaction recoveries against previously reserved accounts and reserve releases. You can see that split between Consumer and Commercial Real Estate. So in answer to the question how much of GE Capital income comes from reserve releases, it is about $200 million pretax in the fourth quarter.

As you can see in the chart, we had about $500 million of the reserve reductions were in Commercial and about $300 million in Consumer and overall coverage was down slightly driven by the improvements we have in delinquencies and non-earnings.

So next, I will shift to the industrial businesses. I will start with NBC Universal. Jeff Zucker and the team had a great fourth quarter. Revenues of $4.8 billion were up 12%. Segment profit of $830 million is up 38% even if you adjust for the impact of the increased GE ownership. In our agreement with Vivendi, we purchased an additional 8% at the end of September. Excluding that impact, profit was still up 30%.

And the results were broad-based. Cable continues to deliver terrific performance. The revenues of $1.5 billion were up 15% and segment profit of $740 million was up 16% driven by great strength in the entertainment properties. Broadcast revenue of $1.8 billion. That was up 11% and the segment profit was also positive, driven by a strong performance in local media, great performance in the NFL and news, partially offset by continued investments that the team is making in primetime programming. And film and parks had another strong quarter with revenues up 9, op profit up over 80%. The DVD units were up 15%, driven by the success of Despicable Me and the parks continued their strong performance, driven by both Potter and King Kong.

As you know, we received regulatory approval this week and the deal is scheduled to close next Friday. And as we go forward when we start in the first quarter, we are going to begin reporting our 49% stake in the new company on a one-line equity contribution basis.

So next is Energy Infrastructure. John Krenicki and the Energy team delivered revenues of $10.9 billion. They were down 3%. Segment profit of $2.2 billion, down 2%, in line with our expectations. You can see the business results on the bottom left and I will start with more details on energy.

Energy had orders of $9.8 billion. They were up 1%. Equipment orders of $4.7 billion were down 8%. If you go to the big pieces, thermal orders of $1 billion were down about 41%, driven by some tough comparisons. We had orders for 29 gas turbines in the fourth quarter of '10 versus 40 in the fourth quarter of '09.

On the wind side, we had orders of $1.3 billion. They were down 17%. We had orders for 477 units versus 729 units last year in the fourth quarter. On the positive side, orders for digital energy and industrial controls at $1 billion, they were up 10% and aero orders of $900 million were more than double last year. Service orders of $5.1 billion were up 10%, driven by the strong growth in power gen services, up 17%.

Our overall equipment backlog at $11.6 billion is up 6% versus the third quarter and the services backlog of $7.4 billion was up 3% versus the third quarter. So a pretty good orders quarter. We are seeing a change in the pace of decline and that is positive and you can see that on a rolling orders basis. If you look at orders price for the quarter, it is down 3% across energy driven by power and water, which was down about 6% and services was flat.

In the quarter, revenues of $8.8 billion, down 5%, driven by lower volume. We shipped 18 gas turbines versus 34 last year in the fourth quarter and we also had fewer steam turbines and generators. We also had $400 million in lower balance of plant revenue, which, as you know, doesn't come with a lot of margin. It is mostly a pass-through, so that was down. And service revenues of $4.2 billion were up 4% driven by the outage and upgrade activity that we saw in the quarter. Segment profit of $1.8 billion, down 3% as the positive pricing and deflation was more than offset by the lower volume and higher investments in new products.

For Oil and Gas, Claudi Santiago and the team ended the year with strong orders. Orders of $2.9 billion were up 15%, a quarterly record for the business. Equipment orders of $1.7 billion were up 23%. That was driven by strong natural gas production orders in Saudi Arabia and Qatar. Service orders of $1.2 billion were up 4%, driven by spares growth and the orders price index was down 1% in the quarter.

Revenues of $2.4 billion were up 5%. Equipment revenues of $1.4 billion were strong. They were up 10%, driven by growth in natural gas, LNG and drilling and production, pretty broad-based. And service revenues of $1 billion were down 2%, up 5% ex-FX, so a little impact of the stronger dollar.

Segment profit of $435 million was up 3%. That is driven by the higher volumes, which was partially offset by the stronger dollar and some investments in new products and service support as we opened two new service centers in Algeria and Qatar. So for the year, the team delivered $7.3 billion of segment profit, up 2%. The segment margins of 19.4%, up 1.9 points.

Next is Tech Infrastructure. John Rice and his team delivered strong results in the fourth quarter and we entered 2011 with some pretty good momentum. Revenues of $10.9 billion were up 9% and segment profit of $1.9 billion was up 11%. If you start with Aviation, the aviation marketplace continues to improve. In 2010, revenue passenger miles were up 9%. Freight was up 22%. Parked aircraft declined by 5% to about 2300 units at the end of the year. And the team had very good orders. Orders of $5.8 billion were up 32%.

The growth was pretty broad-based. Commercial engine orders of $2 billion were up 117%, driven by CFM and small commercial and military orders of $300 million were up two times over last year's fourth quarter. The equipment orders price index was up 6.5%. We ended the quarter with our major equipment backlog at $20 billion, up 1% versus fourth quarter '09.

Service orders were down 4%. Commercial spare parts orders were $25 million per day, which was reported up 2%. But again, if you adjust for the 2009 AVL order, it would have been up about 28%, similar to the Q3 growth.

Revenues of $4.8 billion in the quarter were up 1%, driven by the higher commercial engine revenues, up 8%, partially offset by lower service revenues, down 4%. And segment profit in the quarter, $821 million, was down 14%. It is slightly better than the third-quarter year-to-date run rate and results in the quarter were driven by the pressure from GEnx units. We shipped about 26 GEnx units in the quarter and accruals for cost overruns from some customer-driven engineering changes on a few systems contracts for the new products we are introducing. Those costs were partially offset by positive value gap with positive pricing and deflation and if you excluded the cost overruns, the results would have been approximately flat for aviation.

Healthcare had another great quarter. Orders of $5.2 billion were up 2%. Equipment orders were up 1%, up 3% ex the impact of FX. If you go by region, the Americans were up 3%, EMEA -- Europe, Middle East and Africa -- was down 5%, up 1% if you adjust for FX. Asia-Pacific was up 3%, China was up 18%, India was up 14%. Service orders were up 2% and overall orders faced basically tougher comparisons since the fourth-quarter '09 orders were up 11%. We ended the year of equipment backlog at $3.9 billion, up 6% versus the fourth quarter '09 and come into the year with a strong backlog.

The team really converted well. The revenue of $5.1 billion was up 8%. We saw very broad-based growth. MR was up 25%. Ultrasound was up 17%, CT was up 5%, Life Sciences was up 2%. MDx was down 4%. And it is also nice to see growth in the HCS business in the US, which was up 18%. Segment profit of $1 billion was up 10% and that was driven by the strong equipment volume growth.

Transportation continues to see improvements in the market. As Jeff said, they have got a very good outlook. The rail volume in the quarter for the industry was up 11%. Parked locomotives continued to decline. We had $1.4 billion of orders, up 55%. Equipment orders were up 65% and service orders were up 41%, driven by both North American locomotives and mining equipment.

We ended the year with backlog of $3.7 billion, up 50% over last year, so a strong year in orders. Revenues of $1 billion were up 66%, driven by the equipment. We shipped 116 locomotives in the quarter versus 92 last year. We also shipped 186 locomotive kits internationally versus 78 last year. And service revenues of $515 million were up 106%.

Segment profit of $73 million was positive versus a loss in the fourth quarter '09, driven by the higher volumes and also easier comparisons in the service operations. So as we enter 2011, we continue to see strength in Healthcare. The transportation environment was tough in '10, but it is clearly improving. And Aviation is in line with expectations and we have expectations for about flat performance in profit for '11.

So the other thing in 2011, we will be reporting these three businesses separately now. With the direct connect to Jeff, there is no recast involved. It would just be completely reported separately as they exist today, so there is no recast as John Rice is now leading our global growth and operations team in Hong Kong. So we are excited to see John in that new role, and we will just keep this reporting directly connected and simple as we have been.

Finally, from a business perspective, Charlene Begley and the Home & Business Solutions team had a good quarter in the fourth quarter. Revenues at $2.3 billion were up 5% and segment profit of $139 million was up 6%. The appliance market in the quarter was up 6%. Retail was up 9% and contract channel continues to be tough, down 12%.

We saw a strong retail volume driven by Black Friday promotions. Lighting continues to realize savings from the restructuring and rationalization. Intelligent Platforms had a good quarter and the profit was up, driven by the volume and productivity partially offset by lower pricing in appliances.

With housing where it is, the market remains challenging outside of big sales events. We continue to see the shift in the business to more energy-efficient products and we are spending a lot more on new products. We are investing across the entire productline and for the year, we've received over $200 million of ENERGY STAR tax credits, which more than offset the higher product costs that reduced the segment profit to make the appliances qualify for ENERGY STAR and those credits will continue in 2011. So for the year, Home & Business Solutions segment profit was up about 24%.

And finally, before I turn it back to Jeff, I just want to update one page from the December analyst meeting on pension and operating earnings. On the left side, we just updated this for our 2010 results. The pension team delivered 13.5%, which is good earnings performance in the pension fund. As we said in December, we lowered our long-term pension return from 8.5% down to 8%. The discount rate ended 2010 at 5.28%, a 50 basis point reduction and new salaried employees are going to join a new defined contribution plan. We have closed the pension plan for salaried employees going forward.

And going forward for GE financial reporting, we are going to report operating EPS, which means that we are going to include the service cost for our pension and operating results and it excludes the non-operating retirement-related costs like the amortization of prior gains and losses. We will not make a pension cash contribution in 2011. And on the right side is the financial impact. The blue bars are the total pension expense and the green bars are the operating costs for pension, the annual service cost for our employees that will be in operating results.

So for 2011 on an operating basis, the pension expense will be about flat at $1.4 billion and versus our original plan, that would be a $0.06 improvement to the 2011 outlook. So as you update your models, JoAnna and Trevor will work with you to answer or clarify any questions on this. We think this change provides better clarity to operating results and our measurement framework will be on the operating basis going forward. So with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, thanks, Keith. I just want to close with a couple charts I went through at the December meeting. First, on the operating framework, I think 2011 will look a lot like the fourth quarter, positive growth in industrial, GE Capital earnings snapback. We will have the NBCU dilution less restructuring and pension, as Keith said, will be flat.

So we have a good outlook for 2011. Total operating earnings should be up nicely in 2011 as we look forward. So I think what you saw in the fourth quarter is a pretty good precursor to what you're going to see in 2011.

CFOA we talked about between $12 billion and $13 billion. We will continue to work on working capital improvements. And then from a revenue standpoint, industrial about 5% organic. Acquisitions will be on top of that. GE Capital will be down about 5% with continued management of ending net investment. And NBCU will be accounted for as an equity investment at corporate. So again, this outlook I think just was fortified as we closed fourth quarter, but no real change versus where we were in December.

Kind of the way we think about operating EPS going forward in '11 and '12, we have got a set of headwinds in 2011 as we shipped fewer energy equipment units, the NBCU dilution and the higher R&D spending, but a lot more tailwinds as we go into 2011 -- Transportation, Healthcare, strong GE Capital M&A -- and those will be the drivers to strong earnings improvement in 2011.

And then as we shift gears and look forward in 2012, we will have I think fewer headwinds. We see the backlog for heavy-duty gas turbines and wind continuing to improve, but that will play out over time. We will be spending at the higher run rate in R&D, but we should have earnings growth in both Aviation and Energy Infrastructure in '12, GE Capital continuing to move forward, Aviation and Transportation, retire the preferred stock. So we will have more tailwinds as you look at 2012 versus 2011. And again, this just confirms what we talked about in the December meeting.

And the last page, just a point of view on kind of how we think about ourselves from an operating goal standpoint. We want to continue to grow operating earnings in excess of the S&P 500, have organic growth in services and growth markets between 5% and 10%, keep GE Capital between 30% and 40% of total operating earnings, grow cash more than net income and as we restore the GE Capital dividend, that is still something that we are focused on to be prepared for in 2012, continue to increase our ROTC and maintain an industrial ROTC greater than 15% and just continue to drive an attractive dividend payout ratio. These are the things that we have as key internal operating goals that we want our investors to believe in.

And then just to conclude from an outlook standpoint, the best, most focused portfolio in memory committed to balance and disciplined capital allocation. I think really well-positioned for long-term organic growth. You saw some of that in the fourth quarter. I think a very valuable GE Capital business and our performance is accelerating. And I think our financial results showed that. So Trevor, with that, let me turn it over to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff, thanks, Keith. Michael, why don't we open the lines and go into the questions now?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning, everyone. Obviously, some high-quality issues here as far as your cash balance. I mean it looks like you are going to have about $22 billion of cash on next Friday. What is the new normal, if you will? You used to keep about a $10 million cash balance if memory serves me right, but clearly you have a fair amount of debt coming due in the next couple years, but what do you kind of think of as the new normal?

KEITH SHERIN: Scott, I think the $10 billion historically would have included a balance of capital. So this balance we are talking about is just at the parent, as you know. So I think when you look with the forecast going forward, we are probably going to keep somewhere between $8 billion and $10 billion of cash for the near term anyway. I think over the longer term, as you reduce some of the longer tail risk, you may be able to even reduce that below that.

But probably somewhere around there would be a place where we would have the flexibility that if we ever needed, for whatever unforeseen risk that we could think of, to have some more cash to be a little safer, more secure, to maybe be opportunistic, those are the kind of amounts that we would think of today and from an enterprise risk perspective at the parent for the near term.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, makes sense. Guys, and maybe this is for you, Jeff, it sounds to me like your commentary a month after the December 14 meeting is substantially more positive. And I think results across the board on an operating basis, at least according to our models, came in pretty solid. What has changed, if you will? Are you seeing impact from maybe accelerated depreciation? Are your customers finally seeing some blue skies out there and opening up the checkbooks? What has kind of changed towards the end of December and the last month?

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, I was pretty positive in December, you know me, but I would say, look, I take great -- I take comfort in two things. One is very strong orders momentum, which that -- in the types of businesses we are in, that always is what starts the momentum. So I think that is a real positive.

And then I would say just the across-the-board improvement in GE Capital. I think Keith went through the operating results, but there is just more liquidity out there. That is going to help Commercial Real Estate. Losses are lower, origination is strengthening. So there is just lots of clues along the way.

Now on the other side, what I want our investors to know is that we are running the place with intensity. I still want to make sure that we are focused on things like value gap, working capital turns because I think we want to make sure we run the place with great intensity at the same time. But we do see things that continue to be encouraging as we look at the broad economy.

SCOTT DAVIS: I will pass it on in one sec, but is there a change in geographic mix? Is it still mostly emerging markets or is there some -- has it expanded beyond really EM?

JEFF IMMELT: A lot of the orders, a lot of the long stock orders are still outside the US or still kind of emerging markets and stuff like that. But I think the number Keith showed that gives me -- the amount of volume in GE Capital in the quarter I think was above what we had expected and that is a good sign I think for the activity that is going on in the US.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Just on the gas turbines, did I hear the order number for gas turbines in the fourth quarter of 28 did you say for the fourth quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes.

STEVE TUSA: So what would that bring the year to? Around 95, 96?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know what the total number was. I can tell you for '11 what we are basically thinking. We delivered 114 in '10, Steve and for '11, we are planning somewhere around 103.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. I guess if we just add up the numbers we have, we get to about 95, 96. So you guys should be obviously very well sold out for (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: We have got a pretty good feel for the backlog relative to the estimated conversion.

STEVE TUSA: So how far -- (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: They have commitments that aren't in orders that we think will fill out the rest of the units for '11.

STEVE TUSA: Sure, sure. So how much are you sold out for 2012? And obviously if this year is kind of like ground zero for turbine orders or maybe it is not, and maybe just that clarify that for next year, how far are you -- how much are you sold out for 2012 at this stage of the game?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Steve, we still have excess capacity in 2012. What we do, and you have been through this before, we have pretty good commitments to order pipeline and so our commitment pipeline is building. Those convert to orders over time. So we have a pretty good line of sight for where the industry is going to go.

STEVE TUSA: Do you think book-to-bill in '11 is going to be above 1?

KEITH SHERIN: Our estimate is that the Energy equipment orders will turn in (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: That's positive.

KEITH SHERIN: -- positive in -- (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: That's my hunch, Steve.

KEITH SHERIN: -- in '11, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. And then just one more on GE Capital. The portfolio margin, I guess you said it was around 5% this year. That has actually come down a little bit from what you were saying in the beginning of the year. Are you already starting to see a little bit of that margin compression or should we continue to see high return business being written? How fast is kind of competition coming back there at GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: The margins in the Capital business were pretty good in the quarter. In the third quarter, we had about 5.04% and in the fourth quarter, we were at 5.3%. So for the year, we ended -- Jeff Bornstein said at the December analyst meeting he thought it would be around 5%. We ended at 5.1% on margins for GE Capital for the total year.

So you see the volumes have pretty good returns across the portfolio. Consumer obviously continues to drive its returns up. Real Estate by having less losses has helped us improve returns and will continue to do that obviously as they turn around going forward. So I think we are still seeing good volume at good returns. We are being very disciplined on the pricing in GE Capital.

STEVE TUSA: And you think the real estate turn is sustainable?

KEITH SHERIN: We think that losses and impairments peaked in '10 and now we have got to see what kind of pace of recovery we would have. We obviously have some good indicators early on delinquencies and the fact that credit losses on the debt book have improved. We still had some impairments obviously in the equity book, so we have got to see what the pace of that is in terms of occupancy, rental growth and overall GDP. But I think it seems to us like the losses have certainly peaked in '10 and we would expect strong improvement in Real Estate in '11 and '12.

STEVE TUSA: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks. The first question just on the pricing in your Energy business, you mentioned overall orders price is down about 3%. So could you talk a little bit about what you are seeing differently in wind, as well as in gas? I guess if you are seeing any kind of stabilization yet in wind pricing.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look -- I said the total in Energy was down 3%. If you look at the pieces of equipment, which were down 6%, thermal was down 11%, renewables were down 14%. So those are the two biggest. And I think we are still seeing globally a lot of competition. We have got strong competitors and we have got to compete with our products to win in the marketplace and that is what we have kind of factored into our 2011 planning in terms of the value gap, as Jeff said. So it is a tough competitive market out there, but I like the unit orders that we had in the fourth quarter and they are in line with what our expectations were for the '11 planning.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks. And then a follow-up. In terms of the overall industrial business, could you talk a little bit about the headwinds from R&D and also what you are expecting on the value gap? So if you think about the net of R&D and the value gap shift in '11, how big of an effect do you think that will be on your earnings?

JEFF IMMELT: Julian, what I would say is that the R&D is pretty much built into the run rate. It will be up a little bit year-over-year '11 to '10. And then I would say that we are counting on a value gap that is probably slightly negative in '11 and I will probably hold the internal teams to try to keep that flat. And it will be positive in aviation and healthcare and businesses like that and with a little bit more headwind in energy.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. A follow-up on GE Capital first. The loss rates continue to track better than what we have been looking for and a year ago, I think you guys were a little more specific about what you were expecting for a range in 2010. And as we have come out of the woods here, I am wondering if we might put a finer point on that specific number outlook for 2011.

KEITH SHERIN: We haven't really given that out in terms of a forecast for loss rates. I think you have to say though, if you look at 2010, we are probably $1.5 billion below what we had expected in terms of loss rates mostly driven by the credit side, the improvements in consumer, the improvements in CLL. We had higher impairments than we thought in 2010, but hopefully those are going to abate a little.

I think clearly the performance we are expecting in GE Capital when we look at 2011 is going to be driven by improved credit conditions as you see these delinquencies and non-earnings rollover. So I would expect that write-offs will exceed our provisioning by several hundred million dollars during the year and over time the provisions have to come down. We are at 2.5% coverage today. I don't know where they are going to get to over a normal cycle, but clearly we are still too high versus normal on both the Consumer side and the Commercial side.

So we are expecting GE Capital and the GE Capital team is even forecasting much improved performance driven a lot by the credit side, but also the margin side. The new business volumes that we are putting on versus the business that is rolling off continues to be attractive. And as we shrink places in red assets like mortgage or as Real Estate goes from a loss to a positive, that is going to be part of the earnings growth driver in 2011 as well. So we don't have a specific forecast that we have given for losses, but clearly they are going to be better.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, thanks. And then focus of restructuring in 2011, which businesses will see the majority of that restructuring?

KEITH SHERIN: Right now, what we have is we are probably going to have somewhere around $0.01 a quarter as our normal run rate. You can see that in the core industrial. I think you see that we continue to do plant rationalization in H&BS, both in Lighting and Appliances. We have done a lot of service rationalization in the Energy business. We will continue that. We will continue some service rationalization in the Aviation business and we have had a lot of, in the past, total headcount downsizing in GE Capital. That will continue in some of the red asset businesses. But we are investing a lot in growth on the other side in the green asset businesses in GE Capital.

So I think, right now, it is pretty much going to be in the legacy industrial businesses where we continue to rationalize our footprint, the legacy service business where we can be more efficient would be probably the main places.

JEFF IMMELT: And just to add to that, we see the volumes coming back and our footprint is pretty lean right now. So I think we have done a lot of good work on restructuring over the last two or three years. So it gives us some more flexibility I think when we look out for 2011.

KEITH SHERIN: Plus we are looking at other things. Obviously, when we get NBC closed, we do expect a small after-tax gain. We are looking for opportunities there and that could continue to have more restructuring as well.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. And then just one quick last one. I am wondering if you'd talk a little bit about the strategy behind the recent acquisition, the Power Quality acquisition. Obviously, it wasn't a large one and the valuation appeared reasonable, but when you look at the -- and the secular growth trends look great there as well. But also if you look at the competitive landscape, three pretty big players that are all global talking about customers increasingly going global. It doesn't look like a business you want to just stay small in if you get into it at all, which you have just done. Maybe talk about that strategy a little bit more.

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, we have got, inside our Energy business, we have got a very big industrial footprint, both in terms of Smart Grid and kind of the core GE industrial business. We've played around data centers for a long time around the fringes. This puts us more in a central position there. It is actually quite good technology. And so I think, inorganically, now that we have got this base, inorganically, we know all the customers and I think this just gives us a great platform for good, inorganic growth and getting in at somewhere between 7.5 and 8 times EBITDA is a pretty good place.

In its day, this was one of the world-class platforms 5 or 10 years ago and it has got great -- it's primarily North America today. We have got a lot of opportunities to globalize it. So I would count on us using this like we did with wind as kind of -- it gets some seed planted and now we can scale it organically using our technology and distribution.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and just to clarify, so your focus in it will from here be more organic than additional inorganic?

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly, exactly, yes.

TERRY DARLING: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you, good morning, everyone. Just a couple items, just back on thermal and what's -- or maybe power overall and getting into price. Where are you at now on price on revenues? Has that now inflected negative?

KEITH SHERIN: No, we had positive price in energy in the fourth quarter.

JEFF SPRAGUE: How positive? Can you give us some color on thermal and renewables?

KEITH SHERIN: I have the total as $90 million of positive price in energy. I don't have the split between thermal and renewables.

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, I think when Keith said like the order price is down, what, 3% or something like that --

KEITH SHERIN: In total, including service.

JEFF IMMELT: I think the pricing is going to be slightly negative when you look at 2011 and that is kind of how we built the plan for next year. So I think it is kind of into the expectations of the core run rate (multiple speakers).

KEITH SHERIN: We still have a good margin, strong price in the backlog, especially in the wind backlog that we are still delivering on. So that is going to continue to mitigate some of this here, Jeff, for a period.

JEFF SPRAGUE: But with what you are doing on value gap, you think, even as these down price orders convert 12, 18 months from now, there is upward room in the margins in power?

JEFF IMMELT: In Energy, look, I would say that, from an equipment standpoint, the margins will probably be under a little bit of pressure. From a service standpoint, I think there is upward momentum on service margins.

KEITH SHERIN: We said overall for '11 we expect margins to be flat to down. I think we expect the value gap to be pressure on margins.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And I just want to understand to the extent that you can help us a little more, Keith, on tax, just kind of a twofold question. So understand the dynamic of NBC, but what is really the base we should be working off for industrial as we think about what the tax rate is for '11?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I would say let's take a look at the last two years. So if you do 2009, our industrial, our GE ex-GECS rate was 22%. If you do 2010 and you exclude the impact of the settlements, which we do not anticipate repeating and you exclude the impact of the incremental restructuring we did, high tax restructuring, which most of that was obviously the Hudson reserve, which we again don't anticipate repeating, you are probably around a 23% rate for 2010, Jeff. And I don't see anything going forward in 2011 that would change that ex the NBC thing, which is going to raise the tax rate somewhere between 15 and 20 points for the year. So I would model on a core somewhere in the low to mid 20%s for the industrial tax rates.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And just to take that to the capital side also, the $1.7 billion structural benefit you talk about, should we think of that as solely a benefit through deductions or is there an element of credit there? So maybe I will just leave it at that. Is it just deduction-based benefits or is there direct credits that come in?

KEITH SHERIN: No, it is basically the fact that our global organization allows us to have very low taxed overseas earnings. So when I say a credit, I think you are going to be basically dealing with income that results in less than a 35% rate that gives you the equivalent of around somewhere between $1.5 billion to $2 billion of credit. And then the tax rate will depend upon how much pretax income we have. So take the pretax and grow it next year for the fact that you are going to have lower losses, lower credit losses, lower impairments and better margins. You offset it a little bit for the volume. We are going to continue to shrink the book and you put the 35% rate on that and then the $1.5 billion to $2 billion, somewhere around $1.7 billion, is a good estimate for just planning. It gives you an estimate of what the GE Capital tax rate would be.

I mean the tax rate is a lot of volatility. I think the fact that we are saying for guidance keep the benefits somewhere around $1.7 billion is the best guidepost for you. And it is split pretty evenly around the quarter. If you look at the fourth quarter, we had about $450 million of credit tax benefits from the global financing structures.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thank you. Just one last comment if I could. What are you planning on NBC in terms of reporting? I mean will we see that as a separate line or is it going to just be kind of glommed into Corporate?

KEITH SHERIN: It is going to be in Corporate. It will be a one-line reporting, but it is going to be -- we have moved it into Corporate for next year and it will be a minority interest net income. And we will tell you what it is every quarter. But right now, we've basically said we expect about $0.05 of dilution versus this year. And if you look at the total year results that we have, which we've published today, on pretax and you work that into about $0.05 dilution, you can get the estimate for what 2011 will be.

JEFF IMMELT: Our plan is to show it --

KEITH SHERIN: One line.

JEFF IMMELT: But show it as an item, right?

KEITH SHERIN: It will be in Corporate and we will tell what the item is, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: So you will know what it is.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: You covered a lot of ground. Keith, can you just go back over the reserve reduction and talk about the reserves of -- the write-off [really] of reserve accounts, the whole reduction reserve and the implications for your view of credit quality going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Basically, as we continue to see delinquencies and non-earnings improve, Bob, basically, we are not going to be required to continue to put up as much new provision as the book improves. So in 2009, we had about $10.6 billion of credit costs related to the debt portfolio. In 2010, we had $7.2 billion of credit cost losses. So I don't know what the exact pace of acceleration of continued improvement is. We have seen an awful lot of improvement in the Consumer book. I think there is more improvement to come in the Commercial book and certainly more improvement to come in the Real Estate book. But we expect to continue to see that provision go down and we expect to have write-offs greater than the new provision, which will result in lower reserves going forward and we expect to have very good solid earnings growth in GE Capital obviously in '11.

BOB CORNELL: Yes, clearly. You have been asked this question a couple of times, and you just alluded to it earlier. I mean in terms of reserve coverage, obviously, you guys used to use the 2.63 metric for years and years and now you are at 2.47 and you alluded to that going down. Where is a normal run rate for GE? Where should we expect that to go in the next couple years?

KEITH SHERIN: As I said, I don't have a specific number on it. I think the 2.63 was a long time ago and was a number that doesn't reflect the current mix of our business at all today.

BOB CORNELL: I know, but in terms of -- I understand that. But in terms of a range of where the 2.47 could go.

KEITH SHERIN: It is going to be lower, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Thanks.

KEITH SHERIN: I think you've got to -- we can model out the Commercial losses. They are less than 1% today. I think that is going to continue to improve. I think on the Consumer side it is going to depend upon what unemployment does as to how low it goes and how quickly it goes. And I think you have got a sticky unemployment situation, so we have got to watch that.

We have got not a great housing situation, but we have definite improvements in our book based on the underwriting changes we have made and the performance of the retail portfolio we have. So I think it is going to be lower. I think you are going to have to take your own stab at how far to go with it.

BOB CORNELL: You mentioned earlier, you said Real Estate going from a loss to a profit. I think that was --.

KEITH SHERIN: No, it's going from a big loss to a lower loss.

BOB CORNELL: Right. One other question, in the Aviation business you talked about the quarter impacted by R&D and product development costs. Are some of the headwinds that we were previously anticipating for '11, did that come into the fourth quarter?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. I mean, I would say, Bob, we talked about the GEnx, and I think some of the things Keith talked about were one-time impacts in the fourth quarter. And kind of what we said at the December meeting, which was Aviation segment profit should be about flat in '11 versus '10. I think that is still a good outlook for the business.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, thanks, you guys.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi Investment Research.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITI INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Thank you, good morning everyone. Hey, you've covered a lot of ground about the quarter and the outlook, but I would be very interested, Jeff, hearing about your new role in Washington. You have been pretty outspoken, and my guess is you are coming in with a little bit of -- a couple agenda items, maybe tax and energy policy. But just give us a sense of what the role is, what expectations are and how we see that playing out.

JEFF IMMELT: The first thing I would say, Deane, is that all you guys know my commitment to GE and my leadership at GE, and that doesn't change. This is my passion. I am committed. I am a hard worker. So I am focused on the Company, but at the same time I am honored to be able to work on something I think has importance in a broader economic context.

And I think the focus is going to be exactly what it said, competitiveness and jobs, and a focus on exports, global tax policy, regulatory, manufacturing jobs, energy, things like that. So I just think it is a broader context and I am honored to serve.

DEANE DRAY: Just given the reach of GE's business across the economy, it is hard to fathom that there is going to be any topic that comes up that doesn't have a direct impact on GE. Just how do you expect to manage those conflicts?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, again, with great transparency. In other words, I would say -- on one hand, I know a lot because I see a lot, and that is the strength of GE. But at the same time, I think both as a company and individually, I have always understood context and where we fit, and I think I will manage that with great transparency.

DEANE DRAY: Sure, and congratulations on that. A quick question for Keith. It doesn't sound like Shinsei came up at all. So how did that play out for the quarter in terms of expectations?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. When you take a look at Shinsei, we made no adjustments in the quarter. As you know, we ended the third quarter with about $1.7 billion of reserves. At the end of the fourth quarter, the reserve balance is down to $1.5 billion. So we settled a number of claims through the quarter, about $200 million in the last three months. And we continue to see as new claims come in, they were higher in September, October, November.

They've started to turn back over and go down again, but the bankruptcy clearly -- the Takefuji bankruptcy has clearly created a bubble of claims here. We believe that the court is not going to complete its work with Takefuji claimants until sometime in the first quarter. And we are going to just have to watch those claims as they go down.

So we have got a senior leader dedicated to this task with a big team in Japan. We are continuing to work with Shinsei on all the process around claim management, litigation management. And at the end of the day, we think we are still adequately reserved for the liability that we have in Japan.

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So could you give us a little bit more color maybe on what you're seeing in the aerospace aftermarket? In prior quarters you have mentioned deferrals of overhauls. And it was a little bit tough to interpret the decline in service orders this quarter, given the comps that you mentioned, the big order a year ago.

KEITH SHERIN: I think a couple of dynamics going on there. It's a good question. We did see good spare parts orders ex the Aviall. So we had the one-time big order with Aviall last year. But ex that, we are seeing a lot of good incoming orders. Again, we have a price increase that we put in at the end of the year that is effective for this year. So some of that is orders before that takes effect. That was about 5% for 2011, but with the average daily order rate coming in at 25% up, that $25 million a day and up significantly, that felt pretty good.

If you look at overhauls, we saw overhauls, trying to just find the number for you here, they were up about 8% in the quarter. They had a little lower job scope, so there wasn't a big revenue increase there. And then in terms of total service margins, we had some pressure in utilization from some of our customers that affected -- that offset some of those order rates in the spare parts. We had some people flying the planes a lot less than what they had originally -- than what we had originally anticipated. So some of that offset some of the spares orders. But in terms of the outlook, we feel pretty good about the (inaudible) -- the order rate.

JEFF IMMELT: And the spares orders in the first couple of weeks in January are also very strong. So I think the year is starting off in a good way.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. So it sounds like the activity is kind of catching up a little bit to the underlying flight hour growth? (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Saw a little of that in the third quarter. You saw a little more in the fourth quarter. We are feeling pretty good about that outlook, yes.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. GECAS, on a sequential basis, was actually one of the strongest areas of growth within Capital Finance. Is that just because of the timing of the annual impairment review? Or is there something else going on there?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, we, as you know, we do the impairments in the third quarter. That was one of the biggest events. The other thing, they also had some tax benefits in the fourth quarter that don't repeat that were -- they were offset in Capital Corporate with some tax charges, but at the end of the day, it was part of the increase in GECAS results. It would have been closer to flat with last year without some of the lower taxes I would say.

JASON FELDMAN: Got it. And then last thing real quick, a couple of quarters ago, you mentioned a couple of supply constraints in various areas and I think particularly in Healthcare. Have there been any issues anywhere across the business with respect to (multiple speakers)?

JEFF IMMELT: That's actually --

KEITH SHERIN: Much improved.

JEFF IMMELT: That has actually improved and I think that is good for Healthcare because we have got a nice big backlog going into this year and the supply chain seems to have worked its way out.

JASON FELDMAN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you very much. Good morning. I hate to return to the Energy pricing, but I would be interested to know, if you look at it on a Q-over-Q basis, is price (inaudible) stabilized or will we still see some pressure from 3Q to 4Q?

KEITH SHERIN: I think pricing on both thermal and wind was a little worse in fourth quarter than third quarter. I don't remember exactly what the numbers are. We can go back to the script. We said it in the third quarter and we can get it to you through Trevor and JoAnna, but it is a little worse on the equipment side.

NIGEL COE: Okay. And then looking at 2012, you still have gas and also wind as it drags to the 2012 (inaudible) growth. And I am just trying to reconcile that with some of the positive commentary we are hearing from some of your peers like Alstom, etc. Do you think there is upside to their outlook? I know it is 2012, but you are seeing commitments coming through and do you think that maybe there is room for that to turn positive in 2012?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think you have got volume getting better, so volume -- I think we have seen interest commitments in volume getting better. Volume is going to continue to get better during 2011, so it is a long cycle business. And I think it is all about productivity and things like that in terms of how will we execute on those sites. But you are going to see volume improvements as you go from 2011 to 2012.

Now what I would say, Nigel, is, again, just as a backdrop, when you think about our Energy business, it is a very big business, so I would divide it into kind of four parts. You have got heavy-duty gas turbines and wind. Then you have got all of the distributed energy products, aero derivatives, Jenbacher, things like that. You have got service and then you have got oil and gas. So you have got a lot of the components of energy that are going to be positive in 2011 and positive in 2012 and that is why we like the business is that it is a diversified portfolio.

So could there be upside? Gosh, I hope so, but I think it is kind of the ebb and flow of the market. And look, we have half the heavy-duty gas turbine market and our share is very strong and will remain strong and our wind marketshare -- we had just put out their results yesterday. Our wind marketshare in the US is up 10 points. So we are going to have as good an outlook as any of our competitors as we go through the next couple years.

NIGEL COE: Okay, got it. And then a quick one for Keith on the reserves. Now we have seen the divergence between non-earners and delinquencies, the CLL and I'm assuming that we are going to start to see the non-earners starting to bend down towards the delinquencies curve. Would that be a trigger for further reserve releases or do the reserves reflect more the delinquencies rather than non-earners right now?

KEITH SHERIN: It is more on the delinquencies has been generally, but I think the other factor that may come in is if we continue to have recoveries that exceed what our position was. I mean we had $100 million of recoveries on things that we fully reserved in the Real Estate business and that results just like -- that comes into the P&L just like a reserve release. So the fact that we reserved it 100%, someone paid us off, we may continue to see some more of that in the Real Estate business and maybe some of that in CLL.

NIGEL COE: That's great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. Just wondering about the total CRE impairments in 2010. It seems like it might have come in a little bit above the forecasted 2.2-ish that we have talked about and if maybe you got aggressive to end the year there and help out in 2011.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we booked what we thought we had to obviously. I think that 2010, you are right, came in at $2.3 billion on the impairments line in Real Estate. And we have seen some improvements. If you look, declines in rental have abated, increases in occupancy have improved in many markets. I think these were a little bit unusual because a lot of them were concentrated in Japan and some in Europe, but in many parts of the equity book, we have seen the pressure from impairments abate and we have some early positive signs.

Just how good will it get and how fast will it get, I hope you are right, but 2010 was a little higher -- it was higher than we thought. It was probably about $1 billion of impairments higher than we originally anticipated.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, and then just following up on Nigel's track on the gas turbines and heavy duty, with maybe some signs of significant cycle and extraction of natural gas, and I think your power bubble supply glut is now absorbed, could we see a pretty strong US cycle start to emerge, do you think, which we really haven't had for a decade or so?

JEFF IMMELT: No, look, it's a great question. I think if you -- I just looked at this a little while ago, but I think if you look at the US in the last decade, let's say between 2000 and 2010, we sold somewhere between 40 and 50 heavy-duty gas turbines in the whole decade. So we still think the US is going to be a gas and wind market with the price of natural gas where it is. When we talk to our utility customers, it is the prevalent commentary in terms of what they are interested in.

So I think that is out there somewhere. We are not counting on it for 2011, we don't -- but that has a very high likelihood of happening at some point based on reserve margins and --

KEITH SHERIN: And the realities of the environmental constraints around coal, the challenges around nuclear, the timing, the approvals, the costs. I think that ultimately when we have the demand generation here, we are going to be sitting in a pretty good spot.

JEFF IMMELT: I will give you a factoid. Keith talked about it earlier, but kind of before people buy heavy-duty gas turbines, they buy aeros because they are quick to cite and they fit in around the edges. I think our aero orders were 2X in Q4, something like that, so that is not a bad sign.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Thanks for taking the call. First question, just to follow up on Chris's question around gas in the US. If you were to believe that utilities have to meet this 2015 deadline for coal to gas conversion, would you likely to start seeing those orders assuming you win them in share in sort of the 2012 timeframe or do you think it would be later?

JEFF IMMELT: I think it is 2012, Steve, yes.

STEVEN WINOKER: And just so I have clarification without harping on the pricing thing there, but if you look at the breakout geographically a little bit and I sort of look at the Virginia loss to Mitsubishi, is pricing -- are you seeing it worse in the US than you are elsewhere?

JEFF IMMELT: Not necessarily. I think it is -- not necessarily.

STEVEN WINOKER: All right. And then just on the dividend discussion, you are planning for 2012 for GE Capital again to GE and I keep thinking, my numbers, it should be earlier. And I am just trying to understand, is it still the Fed that you are waiting on there or just something different?

KEITH SHERIN: We are obviously making great progress in GE Capital. If you look at -- you see the Tier 1 ratios for GE Capital Corp, GE Capital Services, the fact that we are shrinking the book faster, the fact that we have continued to pay down our debt and prepay or pre-issue debt so that we are ready to pay down future maturities. Everything in the place feels better to us.

I think the change that we have got to get to is we are committed to being well-capitalized under whatever regulatory regime and whatever the measurements are that people are going to have and be accountable to. We have an idea of that, but we don't have a formal agreement on that with the Fed. The Fed is going to become a regulator sometime in the first half of this year as part of the Dodd-Frank. We are going to transition from the OTS. We have got to engage in those discussions, Steve. I think we're well prepared for it. I think we have been planning on it for 18 months now. I think Mike and the team have staffed up. We have changed processes. We have got better policies, rigor, reporting, everything in place, but we have got to go through that process.

I feel great about the progress in GE Capital and with the discussions that you read about that are going on with the banks about dividends relative to different capital ratios, we are going to have to see. Our plan doesn't assume anything in '11. Our plan assumes that, in '12, we will get a dividend as part of their earnings and going forward past '12, our plan assumes that we are going to get some excess capital out of Capital as we shrink the book and have additional capital in excess of even being well-capitalized under any metric that we can see today.

STEVEN WINOKER: And Keith, there was nothing on WMC this quarter, correct?

KEITH SHERIN: WMC in the quarter, we didn't change anything in our reserves. We had about $250 million of backlog of claims at the end of third quarter with $100 million of reserves. At the end of the year, we end the year with about $350 million of claims. We left the reserves at $100 million because we had very favorable experience against claim settlement rates versus what we had anticipated.

So we feel like we have got a very solid reserve against the claims that are out there and we feel very good about the business position on the ability for people to make claims based on the strength of the work the team did in WMC. So we ended the year at $350 million of claims and $100 million of reserves and we feel very good about it.

STEVEN WINOKER: Great. And finally, Jeff, in light of your comments and continuing to be very, very substantially more positive, as I think Scott led off with, also over time. In light of that, when you think about your M&A strategy and the comments you made in December and this sort of $5.5 billion or so that we have heard about in sort of the larger acquisitions, that kind of $3 billion and under number still stands as far as you are concerned or are you starting to think in light of things moving much more positively that you'd consider more?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think, Steve, what I said in December and what I really believe is that we should be investing in our core franchise in a way that our investors get the benefits of our ability to assemble acquisitions. And so if you think about what we have done in energy, if you think about what we have done in oil and gas, we create value for you by staying disciplined in that range and giving our investors the benefits of the accumulation value. And so I like what we have done. I think they have been well indicative of the kinds of deal -- if you look at the four deals we have done, I think they are very indicative of the kinds of deals we are going to do and we want to be balanced and disciplined. I think we like the dividend, we think buybacks are going to be important and I think this notion of balance and discipline is important for GE.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning. First, on Real Estate, I mean how do we think about -- I mean can you first talk about what the, other than the Japan issue, what the underlying valuation declines are, what the liquidity is like in the market and how do we think about how the unrealized loss could move forward from here? Can it go away and it accelerate either through asset sales or improving valuation assumptions or how could that evolve?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we are going to continue to have depreciation of around $1 billion a year. We will have to see what happens with valuation. In the portfolio, in Real Estate, in the total portfolio in the fourth quarter, we went from 5% to 6% type of valuation declines third quarter year-to-date down to 0% to 1% in the fourth quarter, so that was an improvement. And for our properties where we have a specific reserve, we were in the teens in the third quarter year-to-date. We went down 3% to 4% on specific properties.

So we do continue to see improvements. We had improvements in occupancy in our own properties. We went up to a little over 80% I think the number was and we have seen obviously an abatement of declines associated with rental growth in many of the regions.

So if you have got a valuation turn here, you are going to have an ability to eat into that unrealized loss much quicker, but right now, we would plan on eating into it in an orderly way. We think we would get down somewhere around 0% at the end of '13, something like that.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: As you -- let's say the market continues to improve in that fashion, I mean the next time you do your sort of update, is there an adjustment for current market conditions that could significantly change that faster than 2013?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, sure. It is not on the books obviously. It is an unrealized loss in the equity portfolio. So that could get better and we will obviously communicate the changes in that as we go forward. We are doing that kind of twice a year now.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And then just on the Consumer piece, I mean the write-offs still were up sequentially. It seems like that should be turning pretty soon. I mean can you just talk a little bit about the different maybe pieces of dynamics of why write-offs are still going up there?

KEITH SHERIN: I have got to take a look at that for you. If I look at Consumer in the quarter on write-offs?

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, we will continue to clean out delinquent accounts. We have a formula. I mean basically, at 180 days on an open end, we write that thing off on a closed end. It is written off by -- I think it is 360, it is completely written off. It is all formulaic based on delinquency.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Right. What I meant is sort of looking at the US business versus other pieces, I mean -- (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: The majority of the consumers -- (multiple speakers)

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Even on that formula, you should see some of that stuff having gone down already. I don't know if there is one piece that is still keeping it up.

KEITH SHERIN: No, it is mostly US, right? There is the credit card and then there is the retail sales support that we have and I think they both are performing about the same pace.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. And just lastly just a quick clarification. The provision was like $1.35 billion or something. Did you mention $1.6 billion? Could you just reconcile what the difference is?

KEITH SHERIN: Provision in the fourth quarter is $1.355 billion. What I said was we had -- the total would have been 200 higher except for those (multiple speakers) the original provision was higher, but it declined by 200 for those two events I had -- the recoveries in Real Estate, as well as the release of the reserve in the Consumer business.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Right. So that gets netted in the (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: That is the difference. Exactly, Shannon.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay, great. Thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Michael, we are running against our time limit here. Why don't we take one more question?

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning. Let me start with the Corporate items. So the $0.10 of restructuring and other charges, why was the Corporate item sequentially up $1.75 billion? Could you maybe, Keith or Jeff, give a little color as to what was in that number?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the Corporate items year-over-year were $1 billion worse, right?

JOHN INCH: $1.1 billion, yes.

KEITH SHERIN: And about $400 million of that is the incremental restructuring versus last year. So we had more restructuring in the fourth quarter of '10 than we had in '09. That was about $400 million pretax. Last year, we had a gain in Corporate and we also had the operations of security, the earnings in security while it was held for sale. The total of that was about $300 million of credits in corporate that didn't repeat. And then we had about $100 million of higher R&D this year and the pension plan was a couple hundred million higher as you know. So those four pieces I think would account for the delta year-over-year in Corporate.

JOHN INCH: And the full $0.10 is in Corporate, right?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, $0.01 is in Corporate Capital. The other $0.09 after-tax is in Corporate Corporate, yes.

JOHN INCH: So your thoughts, Keith -- I know it is hard to predict -- but your thoughts about how to think about the corporate line for 2011?

KEITH SHERIN: We have in the framework, as Jeff said, we think it is going to be a little bit negative versus 2010. I think obviously there will be less restructuring, but we are going to have the dilution of NBC included in that line. We are going to have some restructuring and we will have whatever restructuring we do offsetting the NBC gain in that line. And overall, when you put those pieces together, we think it will probably still be just slightly negative.

JOHN INCH: The $200 million --

KEITH SHERIN: The biggest piece of the dilution of NBC obviously, John.

JOHN INCH: Right, no, I understand. The $200 million of reserve releases, I kind of had the impression coming out of the Capital meeting that you guys did not expect really reserve releases. Is there something that really changed and does that imply if you look at the trend that there could be more reserve releases in 2011? I am just trying to understand sort of --

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think I am trying to walk a world where we think of our reserves, provisions and write-offs a little differently than banks, but people report the banks as a complete release of reserves and we are trying to make sure the distinction. Most of our decline in reserves comes from writing off actual receivables, but then we want, just for clarity, to say, okay, we had $100 million of recoveries against previously reserved items. Is that a reserve release or is that that we were favorable in our collections activity versus what we ultimately thought the loss was going to be. We are just giving you transparency on it. We didn't plan on having reserve releases, but we did have benefits versus our positions.

On the Consumer side, we had a subjective reserve. As delinquencies got worse, we put up some additional reserves in 2009 and early '10 and obviously, as the delinquencies have improved, we just couldn't justify keeping them there. So that was about $100 million. So we don't have big numbers like that. I think we could have some, $200 million out of the whole quarter is probably not a lot, but we could have some more in 2011 as we go forward. If we can get recoveries in excess of previously reserved accounts, that would be great.

But I think the main thing that is going to happen is our provisions are going to have to be less going forward as the delinquencies and the non-earnings improve. That is going to be the main driver as we go into '11, John.

JOHN INCH: Just lastly, I think you even said the year-to-date industrial tax rate around sort of the 23% ex settlements. I think we calculated that for the fourth quarter. What do you think the industrial tax rate is for the first quarter? In the comments, Jeff, you suggested it was going to be higher.

KEITH SHERIN: It is going to be really high. I think if you look at that NBC page that Jeff showed you, we are going to have a pretax gain of somewhere around $3 billion. We are going to have a tax charge of somewhere less than that, around $3 billion resulting in a net gain in the quarter. But that $3 billion of taxes is kind of locked in and it is going to just -- it is going to create 15 to 20 points for the year. I do not know what it's going to do for the first quarter. It is going to be a lot. We are going to have a very high rate in the quarter driven by that event.

JEFF IMMELT: But again, John, it doesn't impact framework, the EPS. In other words, that's --

KEITH SHERIN: Changes the rate, but not --

JEFF IMMELT: Changes the rate, but not the EPS.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes.

JOHN INCH: Thanks, guys.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, well, thank you, everyone, for joining our webcast today. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. We will also be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today, so take a look for that. Our first-quarter 2011 earnings webcast is scheduled for April 21 and finally, as always, JoAnna and I will be here and available for questions today. Thank you, everyone, for joining.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company | irevs : Internal Revenue Service
   IN
i1300014 : Natural Gas Extraction | i1 : Energy | i13 : Crude Oil/Natural Gas | iextra : Natural Gas/Oil Extraction | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | gtrans : Transport | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | girs : Internal Revenue Service | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110204e71l000dz
  


 HD
 Q3  2010  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,127 words
   PD
15 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Noelia, and I will be your conference coordinator for today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP OF IR, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thank you, Noelia. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's third-quarter 2010 earnings webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning. The presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor. We will have time for Q&A at the end.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Great, Trevor. Good morning, everyone. The team had a good quarter and an improving environment. The environment generally continues to get better. Some of the things we look at like media buying, credit demand, our losses are declining. Equipment orders growing. I think those were all positives for GE.

We are seeing a slow recovery in a few areas. Commercial Real Estate is performing as expected in a tough cycle. As you know in 2009, we had negative demand for electricity and that's slowly getting better but has had an impact in our Energy orders certainly in 2009. And the appliances market was tough for us as we went through the third quarter.

We had good earnings growth; EPS was up 32% and GE Capital really the team did a great job. You will notice that Keith will talk about in a second, GE Money discontinued operations reserves substantially increased. We believe that that reserve update fully addresses our Grey Zone risk. Execution is very strong, $78 billion of cash and equivalents and operating margins grew in the quarter ex-NBCU.

And we are doing what we said we would do on capital allocation. We had about $900 million of stock buyback. The dividend is growing by 20% and we did a couple, what we think are value creating acquisitions. So we made progress in the quarter.

Go to the next page on GE Capital, no need to dwell on this page. I think all of the metrics are fundamentally getting better. Funding is in good shape. Commercial paper is way down, particularly versus where we were two years ago. Leverage has been reduced. If you look at our Tier 1 Common ratio, continues to strengthen and we are well positioned within the Basel III outline and our ending net investment plan is on track. So we have very strong liquidity and capital positions at GE Capital.

Orders grew by 7%. It's the first time in two years that equipment and services orders grew at the same time, so we view that as a good sign. Tech Infrastructure orders up 33%. That's really great. It shows strength really across Healthcare, Transportation, and Aviation. The backlog was stable. We had several big pushouts in our Oil & Gas business that should come back to us in Q4. And in places like Healthcare, the emerging market orders are up substantially.

The order pricing was only down slightly; it was down about 0.8% in the quarter. So I think that is a pretty good sign for the quarter itself. And as we said in a press release, we think Industrial revenue in the fourth quarter will be up sequentially and roughly flat with where we were in the fourth quarter of '09. So I think there is a lot of good news on the orders page that is going to help us as we go into the fourth quarter and beyond into 2011/2012.

We always talk about execution in both margins and cash and I think the team has done a good job on both of these. Our operating profit rate grew by 40 basis points. That is excluding NBCU. Particularly strong performance by Energy. We had a positive value gap of about $190 million and a big chunk of that driven by material cost deflation. Our operating teams continue to do a good job. And at the same time, we absorbed the initial shipments of the GEnx engines, some of the launch costs and that took place in the third quarter as well.

From an R&D standpoint, we are investing about 5% of our Industrial revenue back into R&D. It is growing 21% year-over-year. Again, focused on product leadership, expanding our core technologies and creating lower cost position.

Just a couple of highlights. We have a strong position on the 787 launch as that goes forward. That will pull a lot of GE systems and engines with it. Very strong new NPI development in our Energy business with new 7F/9F and a larger size Jenbacher engine. And our new investments are scaling in areas like battery, home health and solar. So we are maintaining margins while increasing investment in technology and absorbing some of the initial GEnx launch costs.

Also from a cash standpoint, our cash performance was very strong in the quarter. We generated about $3.8 billion in 3Q. It's cash flow from operating activities at 1.3 times net income and depreciation and as expected, our progress balance continues to decline offset by working capital improvements and our working capital turns continue to get better.

On the right-hand side of the page, you can see the cash walk. Our consolidated cash was almost $80 billion -- $78 billion. Again, we have announced the increase in the dividend and the buyback and again, our cash performance is in good shape.

Last year we said our framework for CFOA for the year was between $13 billion and $15 billion. We now think we are on track to be at the high end of that range so it would be somewhere between $14 billion and $15 billion as we finish the year in 2010.

So a good job of execution by the team. And now I will turn it over to Keith to go through the financial performance.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with the third-quarter summary. For the summary, for the quarter, we had continuing operations revenues of $35.9 billion, which were down 5%; Industrial sales of $23.6 billion, which were down 6%. Industrial sales were in line with our expectations. If you look at the last 18 months of orders we had said that Industrial sales would be down and through the first half, we were down 5%, third quarter is down 6%.

Financial Services revenues down 2% as we continue to shrink the book, and we earned $3.2 billion in net income, which is up 29%. And for earnings per share, we earned $0.29, including the costs of the preferred dividend and earnings per share up 32%.

As Jeff covered, the total cash flow from operating activities was very strong, $10.1 billion year to date, putting us at the high end of our original range. And taxes are pretty steady in the quarter. The consolidated tax rate for the third quarter is 9%. That rate is up from a negative 25% in the third quarter of '09, mainly because of the improvement in pretax earnings at GE Capital.

If you look, the GE tax rate is flat with 2009 at 22% and then on GE Capital, the rate for the third quarter goes from a large positive in 2009 where we had a large credit to a negative in 2010 and the negative rate in 2010 reflects a net tax benefit or a credit on $1.5 billion of higher GECS pretax income year over year.

We expect the GE rate for the full year to be in the mid-20s excluding the NBCU disposition and that would be a bit lower than in the third quarter year-to-date rate of 26% due to some likely audit resolutions that we see -- are working on for the fourth quarter.

On the right side of the segment results, our Industrial businesses ex Media had $3.2 billion of segment profit. It was down 5%. You can see NBC Universal's operating results are down 15%, but the real results are better than the reported results. I will show you that on the details of the upcoming NBCU page.

And GE Capital continues to demonstrates in a rebound. Net income of $870 million. It is up six times from last year. So overall, segment profit was up 11%, and then with lower restructuring at Corporate versus/year, total earnings were up 29%.

We always show you the items that happen in the quarter that we wanted to report separately. If you look at the top left, you can see that in the third quarter the corporate restructuring and other items were insignificant. We had a net of zero on restructuring and other items and no gains in the corporate line.

The item that we have to talk about today is in discontinued operations. As you saw in our press release, we added a significant amount to our reserve for the losses related to our Japanese consumer, Grey Zone exposure. We booked a $1.1 billion charge in the quarter in discontinued operations and I will take you through the details on the right side.

The chart on the top right, that is an update from our second-quarter call. And as you can see the average daily claims which we experience in Japan, continued to decline in July and August. However, they increased in September. One of the independent personal loan companies in Japan, Takefuji, was rumored to be in financial distress during the month and at the end of the month they filed for bankruptcy. We don't know the specific impact of that event on these claims but we do know that September daily claims were up after declining for six straight months.

During the third quarter, we completed a significant study of the Grey Zone claims trends. We made a decision in the quarter to adjust our reserve estimate to our best estimate of the ultimate exposure. If you remember previously, we were booking to the low end of our range and that resulted in a $1.1 billion addition to our reserves bringing our total reserves to $1.7 billion at the end of Q3.

Now the average monthly losses for the Q3 incoming claims are about $60 million a month. And so our current reserve represents over 24 months of future coverage even if you assume there is no further reduction from today's levels.

If you look at the history, though, we do believe claims will continue to come down. If you go from the first quarter to the third quarter, claims are down 27%. If you go from last year to this year, claims are down over 35%. So we do believe claims will continue to come down and we are going to continue to aggressively manage the claims process in Japan with Shinsei. At the end of the day we moved off the low end of the range to our best estimate and based on what we know today, we believe we've fully addressed this issue.

I will go into the businesses. For the business results, I am going to start with GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team had another very positive quarter. Obviously revenue of $11.6 billion was down 3% driven by the lower assets and some dispositions. Pretax earnings of $527 million. They were up $1.5 billion versus last year, a tremendous improvement. Net income of $870 million was up over $700 million versus last year and that is a result of lower credit costs, higher margins on the business, partially offset by lower assets and higher impairments in the quarter.

We ended Q3 with $489 billion of ENI investment. That is down 7% from last year and we are well on our way to hitting the $440 billion ENI target by 2012.

Another highlight in the quarter would be the new volume. If you look, commercial volume was up 45% over last year to $10.6 billion, mostly driven by CLL with very strong margins. And overall, we did $40 billion of volume and that included consumer coming down too as we shrank in the places we want to shrink.

So I'm going to cover the asset quality metrics in the next few pages, so here are a few comments by the main businesses. First is Commercial Real Estate. The environment continued to be challenging, as we expected. The business lost $405 million in net income. That was $133 million better then last year and also $100 million -- over $100 million better than Q2. But it is still a large loss. We recorded $178 million of after-tax credit losses on our debt portfolio and the declines in it globally have started to really abate. The average decline in our global property value was 0% to 1% but for the properties where we took a reserve, the decline was an average 7%.

We also incurred $315 million of after-tax marks and impairments on our equity portfolio. There were some positives in the quarter. We sold 90 properties for $700 million and overall our assets are down to $75 billion down 10% from last year and down 2% from Q2 even with some impact from foreign exchange.

Non-earning assets in real estate were down $200 million. However, as you look forward, we still expect the Real Estate business to remain under pressure for the near future.

Commercial Lending and Leasing also had a very strong quarter, earnings of $443 million up $313 million versus last year. Those results were driven by lower losses, lower marks and impairments and higher core margins. That all reflects the improvements in asset quality. GECAS of $158 million. Those earnings were down 16% as we completed our annual impairment review in the quarter. Impairments of $260 million pretax were higher than last year driven by some valuation declines on 737 Classics and 50-seat regional jets. Those impairments were partially offset again in GECAS by lower credit costs and higher core income and the portfolio remains in great shape but we have zero non-earning assets.

And Energy Financial Services also had a good quarter with earnings up 34%. The real highlight in the quarter is our Consumer business. We had another great quarter there. Delivered $826 million of net income, up $380 million. The earnings growth came from lower credit losses partially offset by some lower assets. US Retail Finance earned $329 million, up and over 100% driven by portfolio quality improvements and better margins.

In the Consumer business, the Global Banking had a good quarter. Global Banking earned $293 million, up 80% driven by lower credit costs. And UK home lending also earned $45 million in the quarter and our own real estate stock in the UK is the lowest it has been since the second quarter of '08. We ended the quarter with 746 properties and we continue to do better than our marks on the properties that we do sell. The realization in the quarter was 116%.

So overall, a really positive outlook for GE Capital, the second positive growth quarter in a row demonstrating the turnaround and recovery that we are having at GE Capital.

On the next page is the asset quality, delinquencies, and non-earnings. In the interest of time and as these metrics are all improving I am just going to summarize a few key points. If you look at both equipment and consumer, our delinquencies and our non-earning balances and our percents continue to improve. All of the trends are down slightly from Q2.

Down on the bottom left for Real Estate, the delinquency dollars were flat but our delinquency rate went up slightly because the book is down a bit and Real Estate non-earnings were also down $200 million. So we have a GE Capital analyst event that we scheduled for Tuesday, December 7, and the team is going to provide a lot more detail on this and other topics at that time.

Next is an update on reserves. If you look at reserve balances, they were flat from Q2 to Q3 at $9.1 billion. Reserve coverage increased slightly to 2.69%. We had $1.7 billion in new provisions against $1.8 billion in write-offs. Some rounding in foreign exchange impact left the reserve flat at 9.1.

If you look at the two business segments, commercial reserves are up. That is driven by Real Estate but coverage is up. And if you look at the details, both our commercial 30-day delinquency dollars, so the actual dollars that are past due, and our commercial non-earning assets are both down $300 million Q3 versus Q2. And when you look at the collateralized position, we feel confident about the recovery we are going to have relative to the non-earning amounts that are out there.

For the Consumer businesses, the coverage is down slightly driven by the continued improvement in the portfolio quality metrics. Even for Consumer, the managed delinquency dollars are down $250 million in Q3 versus Q2. And non-earning consumer assets are down about $60 million Q3 versus Q2.

So we feel great about the overall GE Capital asset quality and reserve coverage and Jeff Bornstein is going to cover this in more detail during the upcoming GE Capital analyst meeting.

Start the Industrial businesses with NBC Universal. Jeff Zucker and the team had a pretty solid quarter, adjusting for the non-repeat of last year's AETN gain. And if you look, the reported revenues on the left side of $4.1 billion were flat. Reported op profit of $625 million is down 15%. However, the operating performance was better than that.

On the right side, if you take out the net impact of the AETN gain and impairment charges which we highlighted last year, those netted to a positive $137 million in Q3 '09. If you adjust for that, the operating result for the quarter would have been up 5%.

If you look at the dynamics for the business, Cable continued to deliver strong performance. Revenues of $1.2 billion were up 8% and segment profit was up 22% led by strength across the entertainment portfolio. If you look at Broadcast, the revenues of $1.4 billion were down 2% and the segment profit here was down about $80 million driven by the significant investments that the team has made in prime time.

Local market remains strong. In the third quarter, the local markets were up 18% which is a good sign. And the scatter market remains strong. For the third quarter, it was up 20-plus% on the network and on cable and we continue to see scatter up double digits in the fourth quarter versus the most recent up front.

Film & Parks had a strong quarter. Revenues were up 16%. Segment profit was up more than two times from last year, a great result with the movie, Despicable Me. And our Parks business had the best quarter ever driven by the success of Harry Potter in Orlando and King Kong in Hollywood. They had a record quarter.

Now we continue to work with the regulatory reviews, we are cooperating fully. We hope to close the transaction with Comcast by year end. We continue to prepare for the closing. We had a successful debt offering so we have completed the JV's financing, and we also completed the initial partial purchase from Vivendi for $2 billion increasing our ownership stake by about 7.5%.

So a lot is going on at NBC and pretty good operational quarter.

Next is Technology Infrastructure. John Rice and his team delivered a third quarter in line with our expectations and the outlook was consistent with what we delivered in the second quarter, as we said. If you look at the key businesses, I would start with Aviation. Orders of $5 billion were up 10%. We are definitely seeing a pickup at Aviation equipment orders. Commercial engine orders of $1.5 billion were up 57%.

CFM orders up 196%; GE90 orders were up 70%; GEnx orders were up 100%. So the increase is very broad-based. Military orders of $500 million in the quarter were down 9%. We ended the quarter with our major equipment backlog at $19.6 billion which is up 2% from the second quarter.

For service, orders in the quarter were down 6%. Our commercial spare parts orders were $22.2 million per day, which is a pretty good rate. The rate compared to reported last year is down 2, but we continue to report -- we had an Aviall order last year. If you adjust for that Aviall order, the rate in the third quarter would have been up 25%. So we are definitely seeing a pickup relative to last year. We had a real decline in the third quarter, and at $22.2 million, that is a good, healthy orders rate for the spares business.

Revenues of $4.4 billion were down 3%. That is driven by the lower military unit deliveries which were down 14% in the quarter and that was partially offset by higher commercial deliveries which were up 2%. We had 463 deliveries of commercial engines this year in the quarter versus 456 last year.

For our revenue, service revenues were down 3%. That was driven by about 4% lower overhauls. Segment profit was down 17%. That is consistent with our results in the first half, basically the Aviation business has had 16% down in profit through the half. And the third quarter included one difficult comparison against the gain on our Wolverhampton sale in the third quarter of '09. And we also started shipping the new GEnx engines, and as Jeff said, which pressured our margins a bit in the quarter.

For Healthcare, the Healthcare team continued to see a stronger market, orders of $4.2 billion were up 6%. Equipment orders were up 8%. If you look at some of the pieces, diagnostic imaging was up 5% driven by double-digit gains in both CT and MR globally. US diagnostic imaging was flat.

Clinical systems was very strong, up 16% and US clinical systems were up 17%. China was up 18%. India was up 36% and service orders overall were up 1%.

We ended Q3 with a $4 billion equipment backlog. That is up 18% versus last year and up 5% versus Q2. Segment profit was up 14% as the strong volume and productivity more than offset the impact of pricing.

Next is Transportation. Transportation's results continued to be impacted by a tough operating environment. However, if you look at all the indicators, the market outlook is getting much better. Orders of $1.4 billion in the quarter were up 122%. Equipment orders of $900 million were up five times over last year and that was split both domestically and internationally.

Service orders were up 15%. The number of parked locomotives declined from 3000 at the end of Q2 to 2350 at the end of Q3 as rail volumes are up 13% year-to-date. In the quarter, revenue of $869 million. That was down 10% driven by 18% fewer locomotives. We shipped 96 locomotives this year versus 117 last year and services were also down 10%.

Segment profit of $101 million was down 43% reflecting the lower volume. So while the business results are down in the quarter, the environment here definitely is improving.

Next is Energy. John Krenicki and the Energy team held profits flat despite having lower equipment volumes. Revenues of $8.4 billion were down 14%; segment profit of $1.7 billion was flat. If you look at Energy, Energy orders $7.5 billion were up 2%. Equipment orders of $3.2 billion were down 5%. That was really driven by Power & Water. Power & Water equipment orders were down 9% driven by thermal. We had orders for 15 gas turbines this year versus 23 last year. The 23 last year included 15 of the Iraq units, so it was one large order. Wind orders of $1.1 billion were down 15%. We received orders for 500 wind turbines this year which was down about 60 units.

On the positive side, we had orders for 25 Aero units this year versus six last year; 290 Jenbacher units versus 206 last year; and service orders of $4.2 billion were up 8% driven by strong growth in core Energy Services.

Revenues of $6.8 billion were down 15%. Equipment revenue was down 21%. That was really driven by lower wind units. We delivered 616 units this year versus 935 last year and also less non-GE balance of plant on some of the big projects, that was about $325 million less revenue year-over-year. That was partially offset by higher gas turbine units. We shipped 24 units this quarter versus 16 last year.

Service revenue of $3.1 billion was down 6% driven by lower outage and parts revenues. Segment profit of $1.4 billion was up 4%. The team did a great job managing margins. We had price increases, we had material deflation, and we had good variable cost productivity more than offsetting the impact of the lower volume.

For Oil & Gas, orders of $1.7 billion were down 22%. This is really a tough comparison quarter. We had equipment orders of $700 million, that was down 44% mainly because of the tough comparisons. Last year we had a $500 million of one order, the Gorgon order was booked in Q3 and we also had about $370 million of equipment orders pushed out of Q3. So year-to-date equipment orders of $3.1 billion are down about 10%. Better than what we had in the quarter with the lumpiness we have here and we expect the fourth quarter to be pretty good.

Service orders of $950 million were up 12% driven by strong spare parts sales and also upgrades. For the quarter, revenues of $1.8 billion were down 9%. Equipment revenues were down 14% driven by lower downstream volume. Last year in the third quarter, we delivered five reactors for the petrochemical industry and this year we didn't have any. So we are really making a shift from the downstream business to the upstream business as we go from petrochemicals and processing up into LNG. And you are going to see that shift over the next year and a half.

Service revenues in the quarter were down 1%, up 6% ex-FX and segment profit of $287 million was down 15% driven by the lower reactor volume. And the impact of the stronger dollar year over year which hurt Oil & Gas, if you exclude those two items, segment profit was about flat in the quarter. So the Energy team delivered flat profit in a little tougher comparison and tougher environment quarter.

Next is Home & Business Solutions. Charlene Begley and the Home & Business Solutions team had a flat quarter in Q3. It is really driven by weakness in the appliance market. Revenues of $2.1 billion were down 1%. Segment profit of $104 million was flat with last year.

In terms of the market, we saw really good strength, continued strength in Lighting and it is driven by the energy efficiency trends. We had great volume in those products including compact fluorescents, LEDs and new ballasts. Orders for Lighting in the quarter were up 9%.

For Appliance, the market was down 4% in the third quarter and our orders were down 6% with continued weakness in the contract channel. Multifamily was very weak in the quarter, and that is affecting the overall business.

If you look, segment profit at $104 million was flat. That includes the impact of higher cost that we have put into the appliances to meet the new ENERGY STAR standards which on a net basis is a positive because it resulted in $51 million of tax credits that aren't included in the pretax numbers above.

We continue to invest in Home & Business Solutions. If you look in the quarter, R&D was up 27%. We're also going to be doing more investments over the next several quarters and you will be seeing announcements on things like the lighting expansion in Ohio and other plants that we are going to be working on.

So the markets are mixed but we are maintaining our profitability and we are doing a lot of investment for the future especially around Energy.

With that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks, and just to give you some more color on the year and going forward, going back to the 2010 earnings framework. As we finish the year, we expect positive earnings growth in the fourth quarter in our Industrial and at NBCU and in GE Capital business based on improving markets and solid execution. So we are going to see pretty good momentum from a business standpoint and operating standpoint as we get into fourth quarter.

Good margin performance in Media. Strong markets and good performance in Cable and Parks. And at GE Capital, the recovery continues.

We will have several fourth-quarter items on the corporate line. These will include some gains, for instance, if we close NBC Universal, there will be a gain associated with that and some tax settlements offset by restructuring and some other items. One of those items might be, for instance, we are in discussion with the EPA on Phase 2 of the Hudson River. And even while we have a good reserve already set up for Phase 2, we don't know where those discussions will go and we will work on that with the EPA in the fourth quarter. So in all, this will likely be a slight negative in the quarter in the corporate items.

We have done a lot to strengthen the Company for 2011 and beyond. We have a very strong backlog and executing well and as we have said all along, the capital allocation optionality is very sound for the Company.

I will give you an update of all of this in December but as we sit here today and I think about the Company going forward, we really expect Industrial earnings to grow and by that I mean Infrastructure and Home & Business Solutions. We expect growth in those segments going forward in the future. We expect capital, solid earnings growth in GE Capital. We expect to have pension headwinds and as we complete the NBC Universal joint venture with Comcast, we expect some dilution there to be expected.

So that is kind of the way I think about the 2010 as we finish the year and a prelude into how we ought to look at the December meeting and the Company going forward.

And then just to wrap it up on a chart I have used in the past, I think the attractive financial profile remains intact, and with good momentum in the future. Strong financial flexibility. This is parent cash, and again, the fourth quarter number reflects the increased dividend, the buyback and the announced M&A. So we can put that cash already to work and that financial flexibility grows over time.

And the things that we said we were going to work on I think we have made good progress on. Repositioning GE Capital to have good profit growth and competitive advantage I think third quarter gives you a pretty good sense of that.

Growth in return on our Infrastructure over time. You can see what we are investing in R&D and the product pipeline is robust. Building enterprise value around process excellence. We have very high margins through the downturn. And our working capital turns are very strong inside the Company.

And then capital allocation to create long-term shareholder value. We have started the buy back. We have increased the dividend and you have seen what we have done on strategic M&A. So we've done what we said we would do over the last year or so on capital allocation.

So that's it for the quarter and now we have a chance to take some questions, Trevor. Thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Thanks, Keith. Noelia, I think we are ready to turn it over to the Q&A.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Steven Winoker, Stanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Just first question around the order rates for 2011. Can you give us some perspective -- sorry in this quarter -- the conversion rate into next year based on what you are seeing now how much of that converts?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I think if you look historically, it is somewhere between 85%, 90% are sort of the orders you bring into the backlog at the end of the year would convert into sales in the next year. But if you end the year -- if we end the year, for example, in Energy with $13 billion of backlog, you're probably going to get 90% of that converting into sales on average.

STEVEN WINOKER: And that is true for the current Aviation profile?

KEITH SHERIN: Aviation is a little longer backlog. If you think about that, I would use run rates in Aviation more than a backlog conversion because if you look, the air framers are pretty much full, right? They are increasing the rates a bit. If you look at the announcements between now and 2012, they are going to have a significant increase in their production rates, but I would work off of run rates there.

The 777 is going to go from five to seven a month by 2012. The 737 is going to go from 31 to 38 a month by 2013. The A320 has gone from 34 to 40 and month by 2012. So that is the thing I would look at it is the airframe run rates for Aviation.

JEFF IMMELT: I think beyond that, Keith, on Aviation, is you just have the Boeing forecasts on 787s --

KEITH SHERIN: You've got a lot of --

JEFF IMMELT: You've got a lot of juice there given our penetration.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and am I correct -- if I exclude the Iraqi order and at least normalize it from Q2, equipment at the time instead of being up 17%, was probably up mid-single digit, so this 9% increase I should sort of think about relative to kind of a mid-single-digit increase in the last quarter? If I normalize for that, is that not right?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, third quarter year-to-date, equipment orders are up 4. And I think the longer periods you take for the long cycle orders give you a better feel for kind of the run rate.

JEFF IMMELT: Steven, the way I would look at it, I divide Energy more or less into four buckets. You know, you've got the service business where orders are picking up and they are going to stay really very strong. And the you've got Oil & Gas where Keith really talked about some of the transitions in Oil & Gas, but they are probably flattish to down slightly so far. But there is no reason to expect Oil & Gas not to be decent as we go forward. So I kind of think about it in those four buckets.

What I would call the fossil fleet in total, which is heavy-duty gas turbines, Jenbacher, aero derivatives, all that stuff, you know, those are flattish and I think will probably stay in that range. And then renewables we expect to be down slightly as you go, they were down year-to-date and will probably continue to under pressure as we go forward.

STEVEN WINOKER: So I kind of think about it in those GECS a little bit. The ENI I saw was just up a little bit in the supplemental on the quarter versus the last 49 versus 47. Is that trending -- anything we should note about the trend relative to your target on reducing the size of capital?

KEITH SHERIN: No. I think if you look at page 3 of the presentation where we show you that the business reductions in the quarter were strong again, the business reductions were down 9 billion. But the dollar in the mark from the second quarter to the third quarter, that increased assets by $11 billion.

So in terms of our business reductions, we are still ahead of schedule and we are well on track to hit the [440]. One of the things that we did in the quarter as you saw, we also purchased some assets from Citigroup. I mean, it is another indication that we are ahead of our shrinkage targets and we have room for some bulk origination as well as the good underwriting and the origination that we are seeing from the commercial teams.

STEVEN WINOKER: And then on Shinsei, just a little bit more clarity. The 11% assumed claims per month reduction, that was sort of the run rate that we had in from you guys before. So what number are you thinking of now when you -- based on the additional reserving?

KEITH SHERIN: Basically when you look at the last 12 months of claims activity, and you include September where September went up and as we said, we are obviously the Takefuji event had some impact on it but I don't know how much. If you look at the rates, three months, six month, nine month and 12 month, reductions in claims from month, they range from 2% to 6%. And so we basically have taken the midpoint of the range, which is the 12-month reduction of an average of about 4%, Steve.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, well I have more, but let me hand it off to some other people who can get questions in. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Bank of America.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. So what was the organic growth for the Industrial businesses, Keith or Jeff, this quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, organic -- I'll grab that for you. If you look for Industrial total was down 4. Energy was down 12, Tech was flat. And H&BS was up 1.

JOHN INCH: Okay, great. There was no corporate restructuring and I think -- I can't remember if you sort of had intimated this officially or just it was suggested that I think you did about $0.03 in the first half and I had thought the second half was actually going to be a sort of overall ramp from the $0.03 rate. Does that imply -- I think it is kind of goes back to Jeff's comments -- does that imply there is a potentially fairly large restructuring action coming in the fourth quarter? Maybe offset with BAC sales gains and possibly NBCU or some other stuff? How should we think about that? What's really would be the nature of that? Is it sort of a cleanup heading into 2011 or is it catching up with other things? How would you like us to think about it?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think as Jeff said, in the fourth quarter, we have a number of items that are potentially going to happen. We are expecting the NBC deal to close. If the NBC deal closes in the fourth quarter, that should result in a small after-tax gain. We do expect some tax settlements. We are working on right now on years 2003 to 2005 with the IRS. And we are in the final discussions -- will it happen and what will the amount be is hard to say, but that could be in there.

So offsetting those things are a variety of opportunities, whether it is asset sales or it is continued restructuring like you have seen us do in terms of taking the cost structure down or other charges like the environmental that Jeff said. I think our anticipation is that the negatives will likely be more than offset by some of the positives that we have in the quarter. We don't know.

At the end of the day, when you do year-over-year, I think is the way to look at it, John, we had a net last year in the quarter of about $0.06 -- about $0.09 -- $0.06 of gains that we had and $0.09 of negatives if you look at last year's fourth quarter for a net of $0.03 of restructuring in the quarter. And our view is that right now the restructuring in the fourth quarter and other charges will probably be a little higher than that.

JOHN INCH: Okay.

JEFF IMMELT: John, we can't really time these things, but there is -- a lot of them are under discussion. I think we always anticipated that some of them would be back-end loaded and that is where we are. But again, I think all of them in many ways take risk out of let's say 2011.

JOHN INCH: It sounds like you are just being opportunistic. You are not -- there is not some big thing you are working towards. That makes sense.

Just lastly, you know, the market has kind been antsy towards the banks possibly having to repurchase bad mortgages. Just kind of thinking out loud, are there any implications as it pertains to your previous ownership of WMC? I know you've got to go back, but I glanced at the K and it says that you do actually retain some sort of obligation for liabilities or loans previously sold. So how should we think about that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you know, we obviously are watching that. You know, I would say that we have had a very good experience in 2010 and 2009. When we first exited WMC, that is when we had our wave of negotiations and settlements with the banks around mortgages that the team had underwritten and sold. So at the end of 2009, we had a reserve of about $200 million. The current reserve is about half of that, but we had pending claims in 2009 of close to $800 million and the pending claims are down around $250 million.

We've had very favorable settlement rates on the claims and the claims per month have come down in 2010 versus the 2009 levels. So I think our team is on top of it. I think we have dealt with most of what we had to deal with as far as we know we have dealt with everything we had to deal with back when we first exited WMC. And we had a big reserve and we had a lot of settlements, but that activity has really declined substantially. As far as our view of this right now is that we are in pretty good shape here on WMC.

JOHN INCH: Okay, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Shannon O'Callaghan, Nomura.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Good morning. First question on your comfort zone around non-earnings coverage. It has continued to tick up here. Now we are at 74%. I mean in the back, you show where you think you are versus Commercial and Consumer. Like 260 for Commercial, 298 for Consumer. I mean where does this 74% go? Obviously non-earning dollars are down. You would expect losses to be better than non-earnings. Where does that 74% go from here?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's going to depend upon how we do in terms of working out the collateral positions we have, but I feel great about our non-earning coverage. If you look at the data that we have had where we put up a certain amount of reserves and we had certain amount of non-earnings like if you go back to the third quarter or the fourth quarter 2009 and look at the amount of non-earnings in the reserves, we basically worked through the majority of those non-earnings by the end of third quarter. And then as we have additional new non-earnings, we continue to work through and we worked through them in a way that is generally favorable versus our reserve position.

So we feel strongly about our collateral coverage and that is one thing that we are going to have Jeff Bornstein give a bigger update on when we get to the December meeting. Go through -- we have some charts we did in July last year where we went through the details of non-earning provisions that we had and that would actually happen. And we are going to update those in December and go through them with you, but we feel pretty good about it.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Yes, I mean it just seems like you are selling things for greater than their carrying value and things like that and you've got this big -- I'm just wondering when that 74% goes down?

KEITH SHERIN: Clearly the driver is going to be how you think about new provisions on losses relative to the quality of the book. And as delinquencies and non-earnings continue to improve, as you say, those additional provisions quarter-to-quarter are going to continue to come down and that is going to be really what drives the future profitability here.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. On the Industrial side, just a question about the improvements you are talking about in the aerospace aftermarket. On the last call, you said airlines are still deferring overhauls and things. What are you seeing in terms of change of behavior on that front?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, we are seeing quite a bit of activity in the marketplace, obviously. If you look revenue passenger miles were up 6.4% August year-to-date. Cargo is up almost 20% August here today. The Park fleet has started to change a little bit. We had about 13% of the world's fleet was parked the first half of the year. It is down to 12%. We have seen a number of cargo planes come out of the parked fleet and we saw their orders picking up if you look at spares relative to last year ex the Aviall.

So I think it looks pretty good. We feel pretty good about the outlook.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Okay. The last one then I will go. Just on sort of Basel III requirements and an update there on your thoughts, sounds like you are pretty comfortable but just in terms of where you are risk weighted asset treatment and things like that? Any color?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's a lot to still be determined. I think first of all, most of our entities are not subject directly to the Basel standard, so I think we are going to have to still work through how much and what is going to be impacted by Basel III. We have looked at the main published criteria for capital levels and for liquidity. And if you look 7% Tier 1 capital requirement, Tier 1 common capital requirement by 2019, I know everyone is going to get to these requirements much sooner than that. And you look at where we are today, even with adjustments we think we may have to make to the risk-weighted assets measurement or what is accounted for as Tier 1 Common capital, we feel pretty good that even by the end of this year, we are going to be in the ranges here that we need to be in.

So there is still more details to be worked out but obviously as we shrink GE Capital and we continue to leave that capital in through 2010 and through 2011, we continue to strengthen the capital ratios that we think will be in good shape. We don't have any of the big adjustments that some of the banks have on risk-weighted assets for a couple of things like we don't have a lot of subordinated capital. We don't have any mortgage servicing rights. We don't have some of the biggest things that are creating some of the adjustments out there and I think that bodes well for us as we go forward.

And then on liquidity measurements, we feel good about that obviously with the amount of cash that we have and bringing down the CP balances, we feel like the outlook for that is pretty good shape as well.

SHANNON O'CALLAGHAN: Great. Really helpful. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Citi.

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning. Start with a two-part question on M&A. And would like you to put the announcements last week in context if you could especially in the acquisition in the consumer finance portfolio. Would that suggest -- are you seeing the bottom of the cycle there? You are not just shrinking that book but you are also selectively looking to grow. That is the first part of the question.

And secondly, as you do look at allocation of capital and by our assessment this would potentially be the biggest M&A cycle for GE. Are you changing any of the processes of how you are vetting acquisition candidates and what does the environment look like today?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I would say just first on the consumer finance, and I would like Jeff to comment on overall M&A. I think if you look at what we were able to do we are able to add to a space where we've got a real competitive advantage on distribution. We are basically a unique provider of capital to retail distribution in this country and we have a tremendous franchise that Mark Begor or Glenn Marino run and they are performing extremely well in the current cycle in terms of their asset quality [measurements].

And you saw the income in the Consumer business and the US retail business. A lot of that is in this retail distribution. So what we acquired were additional retail distribution arrangements. It is more like a B2B financing. And it wasn't in the private label credit card which is also doing extremely well. So I feel great about that.

Adding to that is a place where we've got a nice competitive advantage on distribution. We have got a tremendous business franchise. We bought assets at a very attractive price.

JEFF IMMELT: So I think, Deane, on the other part of your question, I would first say our teams are doing a great job on cash generation. I think everybody is really focused on it. Be with the incremental capital that we have from the NBCU transaction when that takes place, that really gives us a -- some real tailwind there.

The third thing I would say, just to reiterate what Keith said earlier, is that we think GE Capital is going to create its own strength and that is well underway and so I think GE Capital is a great shape. So on -- so we started the buyback -- we have increased the dividend and in the strategic and industrial M&A, I think some of the things that we talked about at EPG on the size of deal, we will be disciplined on the size of deal.

These will all be infrastructure. All the deals we do will be infrastructure kind of deals. They will be bolt-ons to the core of what we are doing in terms of inside the business. And we think that as we do these kinds of deals that they will be able to accrete on a relatively short time period from a standpoint of what will pay and how we value them. They all return greater than our cost of capital.

So just the things that I have talked about in the past I would say kind of what you saw last week is what we will continue to try to do.

DEANE DRAY: I know you are limited in what you can say about Wellstream. But should the takeaway be that there are valuations of which it is too expensive and will you -- if you can't spend all this capital, should we infer that there would be more buybacks potentially and higher dividends?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, you know what I would say -- I can't say anything about Wellstream, period. The second thing I would say is that there are good opportunities out there, we think. And the third thing I would say is that if we don't see good opportunities we will increase the dividend and do more buybacks --

DEANE DRAY: Perfect, thank you.

JEFF IMMELT: So I think that is just consistent with what we have said in the past.

DEANE DRAY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Just a question on the GE Capital operating cost structure. Do you think you need to do some more dramatic downsizing there for the trend to smaller more focused GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: I think it will be pruning. I think we have done a dramatic restructuring. If you look at the change in the cost structure and how much we have taken out of the SG&A of that business over the last 18 months, you know today we are going to continue to shrink the things that were running off. The global mortgages will continue to shrink, but we have really cut the cost base dramatically.

Today we are looking at some things in investment around the midmarket, distribution and in areas where we may be able to take advantage of some of the disruptions because of the capital requirements of the banks or other things where we provide a real competitive damage.

We get local -- we are totally connected to the midmarket customer. We are underwriting their assets. We are willing to take the residual risks because we know the assets and we have got a pretty good value proposition. So I don't think there is going to be a dramatic change in the cost structure there. I think we are going to continue to run off the places that we have set our [red] assets. You see us doing that. And we are going to incrementally add in places where we think we have a competitive damage.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, and then the cash balance at GE Capital. How should we think about when that can start to trend back in the direction towards historical levels?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the way I think about it is it's significant today. It is high today as we brought the CP down, as we continue to maintain the bank lines, that basically is allowing us to continue to prefund in advance of maturities. And I think what we're going to do is work our way through 2011 and then obviously we have the TLGP maturities in 2011 and in 2012. And when we get through into what I would call a normalized period, Christopher, we are going to definitely be able to bring the cash balance down. We're going to bring the CP down and we will probably operate with less bank lines as we go into that environment.

But in terms of ratios and safe and secure, we are going to be able to keep our cash plus our bank lines at two times our CP and I think until you work your way through to a normalized period, which we should work through in '12, we are probably going to have the $60 billion kind of range cash -- $50 billion to $60 billion as we work our way through that.

But I think after that period, in a normalized place you are going to be able to bring that down to a lower level and still be above -- well above whatever the standards are for the important liquidity measurements for the regulators.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Just wanted to touch on Energy for a second. So wind was obviously pretty bad but I think you said the thermal deliveries were up nicely. Yet you know the revenues were still pretty light. Can you just maybe talk about what else happened in the segment there?

And then secondly on the margins, pretty good margins on the revenue performance. Yet your value gap closed relative to last quarter. So is there something in the mix there that drove that margin that we should be aware of going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I would say on revenues if you look -- again the biggest item was renewables. If you look with the wind volume, it was down -- wind turbines were down 300 units, it down $600 million of revenue in the quarter. Then we had $300 million of balance of plant. You know, when we do a large power plants, a lot of the times we source material and just include it in the project, but it is not GE material. $300 million less, that doesn't have a lot of calories in it, obviously. Margin calories for us. So that's almost $1 billion of the revenue decline and those were the biggest factors I would say.

We had some lower steam turbine units. We had a couple lower generators but the biggest were those two items.

Now in terms of margins in Energy, the team just does -- is doing a tremendous job. They are really working on protecting the price and the backlog. They're doing a great job on sourcing and getting deflation. They are working their way through a wind market that has really collapsed in the US. And we've got a very attractive position there and they are adding value by putting new products in place that give customers a little more value.

The [1 6] instead of the [1 5] on the wind turbines and things like that, so they have done a good job working their way through this. I think services margins have held in all of the Infrastructure segments, they have stayed strong. I don't have one specific mix item. With the revenue down and with continuing to provide high-margin equipment in places like the gas turbines and the wind margin backlog, the wind margin that is in backlog is very high. These guys have done a good job combined with the sourcing benefits we are getting.

JEFF IMMELT: The other thing I would say, Steve, is the PowerGen units are being used right now in the customers' fleets and that bodes well, I think, for Energy Services in the rest of this year and into next year.

STEVE TUSA: So you used the term collapsed in the wind market. How is renewables down modestly next year in the face of what looks to be a pretty horrid environment from an order perspective in wind?

JEFF IMMELT: A lot of that is going is globally, Steve, like Canada, Brazil, Turkey, places like that. I think are where a lot of the demand is going to be. I would say probably lower margins than the ones we booked a year or so or go in the US, but that is where the demand will be.

STEVE TUSA: Okay and then just one last question on GE Capital. You know you talked about holding a $50 billion to $60 billion of cash. That seems to be significantly higher than kind of the $25 billion to $40 billion you guided to last December in that kind of strategic funding plan slide you gave. Is that just driven by lack of visibility on the new regs?

And then secondly, you know you gave us a nice margin number, a portfolio margin number last quarter. I think it was somewhere in kind of the 5.2 range year to date. Can you maybe just update us on whether that is tracking toward that number or what it did in the quarter and how we see that going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. We haven't changed the cash outlook. I guess I would ask Trevor to look at the chart with you and see what we are dealing with. I think we have been saying $50 billion to $60 billion of cash in GE Capital. We just did a bunch of bonds at the end of the quarter that gave us a little bit of cash in advance. We're going to look at when the market opportunities are there for us to fund ourselves and we did like $5 billion right at the end of the quarter.

But I think when you look at the numbers on that maybe we are dealing with $40 billion in 2013 and that is consistent with what I just said I would say.

STEVE TUSA: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: In terms of margins, I think the quarter was about [5 1] in the margins, so it's pretty similar to what we had in the second quarter.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. I want to follow up on Steve's question a bit because I think from the phone calls I am getting in, the biggest angst out there is coming from the revenue decline in Energy Infrastructure. How much -- I guess kind of my question is were you guys as surprised as we were at how bad things got in wind this fast or was this something that we just kind of modeled out wrong and missed the rate of change?

KEITH SHERIN: We have been talking about the wind market for quite a while here. We weren't surprised by it at all. So maybe we've got to look at how do we model it with you guys a little better, but really it is something that is consistent with what John Krenicki and the team have basically been saying to us all along and the way we have been planning to run the business.

SCOTT DAVIS: Fair enough. So let's dig into that a little bit. I mean if you think in terms of wind revenues down 32%. Can you make money in the business at that kind of level? Do we have a much bigger swing in profits? I know you outsource a lot of components here and so can moderate production down pretty fast. But what -- how do we think about kind of decremental margins?

KEITH SHERIN: I think wind can stay very profitable for us. It's an attractive business. We don't disclose the specific profit numbers, but I would say that relative to our equipment margins, it is a profitable business. And as Jeff said, we will probably have a mix shift as we go from some of the backlog stuff that we have in the US and we work through that in '09 a little bit. We work through it in '10. We have some more of that in '11 and we are going to shift into International and probably will be slightly lower margins. But it's at a very good profitability level.

We are building our service business as we built out a huge install base and that is going to over time contribute. So we like the business. We are investing like crazy. We have got a big investment in larger wind turbines. We've got a great position that we are working on for offshore.

JEFF IMMELT: Scott, if I could, just take you back to the mosaic that we talked about in May and then again in the second quarter. We always flag renewables as a risk and I think that is well recorded and well written about, not just with GE but others,

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure.

JEFF IMMELT: And then we always said that on the other side, the way the industry typically works is you get pretty good orders for the aero derivatives and the gas units like Jenbacher. I think that's (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: We have seen that really take off.

JEFF IMMELT: That has taken place and then that leads to a rebound in a heavy duty gas turbine market. That is going to take place. We see pretty good demand outside the US. That is taking place. And our service business is dramatically strengthening.

So I think when you think about '11 and '12, we think the diversity of this business is just quite strong. And then what Keith said earlier is, we remain deverticalized, so we can keep pretty good margins in something like wind even when the volume -- because we have been -- we have seen this rodeo before in terms of how the industry can kind of go through these peaks and valleys.

So again, I think the revenue number I get, but I think if you look at the margin number and the diversity of the Energy portfolio, we feel pretty good about how this business is positioned to fight through the next few years.

SCOTT DAVIS: Makes sense. So let's move to something more positive, and that is Dresser. I mean clearly the market liked that deal and it's a type of acquisition I don't think we've seen in a while with you guys. And so it is great to see you kind of get back to your roots again. But what -- if you think about size wise, that was $3 billion which is about -- if you are talking about $30 billion over three years, should we expect somewhere -- are there more deals in that kind of size range that can move the needle? Or was that a bit of a one off and now you are probably looking at more like you call them bolt-ons, but Dresser is pretty big, too?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, we like Energy. We think we've got a good executing team there and in the 1 to 3 range, really if you think about Energy and Oil & Gas, there are just lots of companies in that range. So I think we have a pretty repeatable process in terms of how to get cost synergy. We don't really count on revenue synergies when we evaluate the deals. We like the supply chain. We know how to get cash out of the supply chain. So I think that -- those are all of the positives.

And so we think in an orderly way we can kind of chunk through and do a bunch of deals kind of in that range.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning. Just a couple of cleanup items I think on some of the things you mentioned, just some clarifications. I guess first, Jeff, you made a number of comments on 4Q orders and I'm just trying to wrap all that up. And it kind of sounded to me net-net that orders would be up sequentially, but probably down year-over-year given the tough comp in some of the businesses you had last year. Is that the right way to translate?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, I think orders will be flattish, Terry, would be my assessment. But again, I hate to give guidance point to point. But I would say we talked about orders should be flattish. Revenue in Q4 industrially should be up Q-over-Q and flat versus year ago. That is how I would look at it.

TERRY DARLING: And then just on that order, you were just talking equipment, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, equipment and service.

TERRY DARLING: I'm sorry, I was just talking equipment then.

JEFF IMMELT: I think equipment will be maybe up slightly -- flat to up slightly, in that range.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. And then I am just wondering -- is there any update on some of the key commercial aero headwinds on R&D and startup losses that we talked about last quarter? Or are those numbers still roughly as you thought they were a quarter ago -- in terms of the --?

JEFF IMMELT: Try the question again. I'm sorry.

TERRY DARLING: Talking about some of the 2011 headwinds in Commercial Aviation, the R&D increase that we talked about last quarter as well as the startup losses on GEnx. Have any of those numbers moved around on if at all here?

JEFF IMMELT: Okay. There is a little bit that is going to happen in '10 versus what we had planned but there is still going to be a chunk in '11 as well.

TERRY DARLING: And that is still kind of 500 to 700 if I am remembering correctly, or has that changed?

JEFF IMMELT: Less than 500 -- about.

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers) less than 500. (multiple speakers) We said that is completely consistent with what we have -

JEFF IMMELT: It is no worse than that.

TERRY DARLING: Great. No change there. And then any update on pension headwind for next year? You did mention that. I think we all can see what is happening with rates but any finer point you want to put on that for people?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think if you look at pension for us this year, we're experiencing about $1 billion pretax headwind. Without any other changes, that would be a similar amount of next year. Today, there are two unknowns really, right? There is the discount rate and then there is the -- what do you do with your earnings rate? Those are the two things being debated a lot in the world. I would say from a discount rate perspective, today if you had to do it, it is somewhere between around 70 basis points, probably lower. But who knows what the 10-year is going to do and what the 10-year AA is going to do between now and year-end.

So there is variability there. We said that 25 basis points at discount rates about $200 million of increased pension costs. And then what is your return on assets, we have an 8.5% assumption. Over a long period of time, we have more than made that. And in the short period with the 2008 losses, you don't get that in the five- and 10-year averages. But excluding that, the returns have been very good. We have got a very high equity allocation. We've got a long-term liability we are dealing with here.

We are 7% through roughly today, through the third quarter up in the pension in terms of the return. So how will that play out? We'll have to see. We have said that a 50 basis point change there is somewhere around $300 million. So those size kind of the dimension of what we may be dealing with and we will have to give that update in December when we get to there.

TERRY DARLING: That's helpful. Just a couple other quick ones. First, Keith, on tax. I think maybe I missed it. Apologize, but the lower rate this quarter than I think you had been looking for, what was the driver there? And then it sounds like fourth quarter is closer to 20%. Maybe to get the full year to the mid-20s and any council on '11 at this early stage?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, first of all, the tax rate is exactly what we were expecting in the third quarter. I mean if you look at it, it is flat to last year in terms of rate. It is $50 million higher of a provision for the Industrial. It's $750 million higher of a provision in GE Capital. So taxes are $800 million higher year-over-year, and flat from a rate on the Industrial -- and significantly higher, obviously, on the Capital side in terms of dollars.

For the year, excluding the NBCU sale, which will create volatility in the tax rate, we are saying that we estimate the Industrial rate which is 26% year-to-date third quarter to be somewhere lower than that and that depends upon whether or not we do reach a settlement on the 2003 to 2005 tax year. And because we are in negotiations on that, I do not have an amount on that, but the tax rate in the fourth quarter would be lower for Industrial, but bring the overall rate down a bit.

JEFF IMMELT: But, Keith, if we complete NBC, that's -- (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: That raises the tax rate.

JEFF IMMELT: That will raise the tax rate?

KEITH SHERIN: That will raise the tax rate because we have got a low basis, there will be a high tax on that gain. Absolutely. You know, for '11, we would say that industrial rates are going to stay in the mid-20s. We don't have a change in anything structurally.

And then at GE Capital, we will have to see how things go. We would expect the rate to be similar to what we get as a total year rate this year. And we expect the structural benefits between somewhere of $1.8 billion and $2 billion. This year should be similar next year and we need -- obviously we need legislation to get extended to get to those rates.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and then just one last quick one. Should we anticipate a WMC reserve increase of any meaningful order of magnitude in the fourth quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't foresee that at all.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Yes, thanks. My first question was really on the power side in terms of not so much volumes but what you are seeing on pricing, because you mentioned it being sort of high single digit negative in your order backlog Q2. [Zeman] said something similar about a month ago.

So I wondered if you had seen any change in pricing trends very recently because I guess there is a sense in which the large thermal stuff in particular, gas is near its volume sort of trough. So if you are seeing pricing starting to firm up there? Wind, obviously not near that volume trough so I guess pricing remains very difficult. And what you think that means for your value gap going forwards?

JEFF IMMELT: I think the pricing remains challenged, right? Energy overall was down 2.8, Jeff.

KEITH SHERIN: Thermal was down 5, on not a lot of orders. And then obviously wind was down about 12. So renewables overall 2.8 because you've got a benefit in services. So and other components -- the other aero derivatives (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Aero derivatives.

JEFF IMMELT: -- and stuff like that is pretty strong. And I think we are still seeing pretty good deflation in terms of what the teams are doing in terms of productivity and material costs out and sourcing. So I think -- we haven't gone through the budget for next year on value gap and things like that, but this team does a pretty good job in those areas.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Okay, but I guess is there still a big gap between the pricing effect in your P&L and the pricing effect in your backlog or is that gap closing already?

JEFF IMMELT: I think it's closing. You know, Julian. In other words, I think if you look at -- I think things aren't getting worse and I think it is closing, but we will be able to reflect more when we get together in December.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Sure. Okay. And then secondly, just on the healthcare market, you mentioned cost saving initiatives offsetting pricing there. I guess pricing is always a feature in Healthcare. Has there been any change there recently? And I also I guess on the demand side in the US, has there been any change in the last sort of three or four months or everything is as it was in June?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Julian, I would say that their margin rates are pretty good and the pricing is, if anything, slightly stronger than they had anticipated of at least in a worse. And so I think they have done a nice job there. They are building a lot of backlog. I think the US market is -- vibrant is the wrong word -- but I think people are redoing their planning on post reform and that's been generally positive. So I think the market itself and our performance is pretty good.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Yes, good morning, guys. So, just I would hate to go back to wind again, but I thought that Jeff's comments about the margin and the backlog on wind is very good and I think you might have said actually improving. Yet pricing down I think 8% last quarter, down 12% this quarter. It sounds like you are having a lot of success in passing through that deflation to your supply chain.

And I just wondered maybe if you are getting more success in going back and shaking those guys down. Maybe that is the wrong word, but certainly a tremendous job with the margins and I was just wondering if you go into that a bit more?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I think the strategy has been for a long time on all of the stuff we do is to be pretty deverticalized and I think we do a good job of working with our suppliers on productivity and cost out. All that being said, my suspicion is that the margin in the renewable business will be down year-over-year and that will be offset by improvements in Services and Oil & Gas and some of the other areas.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and just so I understand your 4Q revenue comments, I think you said flat year-over-year in 4Q.

JEFF IMMELT: On the Industrial side.

NIGEL COE: On the Industrial side, but that implies about a 20% pick up from 3Q levels. Can you maybe just go into what is driving that pickup because it implies a nice [reversion] in both Energy and -- well, primarily Energy?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I think it has been typical over time is that you have got people finish out the year and that is when a lot of the projects complete. Healthcare in particular, there is a budgeting cycle by the hospitals that impacts the Healthcare but in some ways, almost every one of our Infrastructure businesses has a stronger --

KEITH SHERIN: Pretty consistent quarterly annual --

JEFF IMMELT: Stronger fourth quarter -- third quarter a lot of our customers do shut downs and power plants do turnarounds and stuff like that. So this is not atypical, I don't think, Nigel.

NIGEL COE: Yes, and I know that 4Q is usually higher, but the 20% pickup is a little bit higher than what we usually see. But no, that is great news. And then, Keith, on the NBC gain offset by some items, we have done some back of the envelope calculations that suggest the gain could be close to $1 billion pretax. And it sounds like it's going to be lower than that. Can you maybe just put some color around that?

KEITH SHERIN: I haven't done what the pretax number is. I think what we said is we will have -- we believe a couple hundred million after-tax gain. As I said, it is a high tax transaction. So we are still finalizing so much around that valuation and accounting and tax, but our expectation today -- my expectation today is we have a couple hundred million dollar after-tax gain. And does it have some range around it? Sure it does.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and then just one quick one then I will pass it on. The losses have been coming on very nicely in GE Capital, $1.7 billion this quarter. On the ENI target that you have, the $400 billion long-term target, what kind of -- what sort of neighborhood of losses would you think is a good run rates on that asset base?

KEITH SHERIN: Well I think if you go back to our pre-crisis levels and you take a look at our average normalized consumer losses and our average normalized commercial losses and you look at the mix of the business, our traditional loss rates are down around a little over 1%, 1%, 1.5% with a good consumer mix.

So we are going to -- our expectation is that we go back to pre-crisis loss levels and then if you adjust for the mix between Commercial and Consumer you can get a pretty good number there.

NIGEL COE: And that suggests a range of about $0.5 billion?

KEITH SHERIN: That's low.

NIGEL COE: Too low, okay.

KEITH SHERIN: You are talking about on a quarterly basis?

NIGEL COE: Yes, that would be on a quarter basis.

KEITH SHERIN: Still seems a little low to me.

NIGEL COE: Okay, thanks, Keith.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Could we make sure we've got the Aviation R&D thing straight? You gave a generalized answer to Terry, but my understanding is you are thinking there is a $300 million to 500 million R&D headwind next year, but that was allowing for the possibility of a 737 reengine which clearly isn't going to happen and possibly allowing for an A320 reengine which is maybe not happening, certainly sliding further to the right.

So as you look at what actually might happen as opposed to what you were conceptually prepared for, what do you think the R&D headwind actually looks like?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, we haven't done our formal budgets for next year, and there is a lot I would still like to go through. But you know, we are shipping the GEnx engines in the third quarter and fourth quarter of this year, right? So those are some of these costs associated with that. And, look, it is certainly not going to be any worse next year than what we have already said and could be better. But I would rather kind of go through that with you as we finish this year. And I think we have made a little bit better through stuff we have done in '10 and then we will just see where the R&D goes as we go into next year.

KEITH SHERIN: It is a big category -- the $500 million that has been discussed is not one thing -- it's a total set of things including the launch of the GEnx, including the new programs, including other expenses we have with those programs, including China. So it's a lot of things.

I think if you think about it in a macro sense, it is built into our run rates. You are seeing some of it in the run rate in the third and fourth quarter here with what we talked about in Aviation and there are other things in 2011 that offset that. I mean if you look, we expect to have a good improvement in the services growth. We do have some other volume growth across the other commercial engines that aren't as pressured when you look at that compared to the GEnx. And we've got pretty good margins in the rest of that business.

So it's not one lump sum thing down year-over-year. It is included in a lot of the run rate. It is just a pressure that does have to be absorbed by the business as we go through a lot of development and those development programs are multiyear. I mean we are investing into LEAPX. We are going to continue to invest into LEAPX, so I think it's a part of the fabric of that business but it is not one lump sum number that is like just down next year because of that. That is never what we intended it to be.

JEFF SPRAGUE: That's helpful. So then just maybe to understand the run rate then obviously the margins did step down in Q3. Can you give us a sense of what the GEnx impact was in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: No we are not giving out an individual kind of product margin, Jeff. These launch engines are definitely pressured when you look at the concession levels and also the learning curve on the engine and that will improve as we go through 2010 and go through 2011, we get up to normal volumes and it's a more normal launch prices and concessions. You are going to see that continue to improve. But we are not giving a specific margin per engine on a product line. We haven't traditionally done that. So (multiple speakers) It is part of the fact that the business was down 17 in the quarter.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Yes, you shipped physical GEnx engines in the quarter, though, correct?

KEITH SHERIN: We recorded revenue on about 18 and those are for the 747s so far. That engine is certified. In the fourth quarter, the engine for the 787 will certify, we believe.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then a lot of ground has been covered here but just over onto Oil & Gas. What are the margin ramifications for this transition in the business from downstream to upstream?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think the equipment margin ramifications are not -- it is not a change -- it was really a volume thing that we are talking about. The LNG margins or at least the average margins for the equipment of this business. They have done a tremendous job on winning the LNG orders around the world and those will be -- we had a little bit of Gorgon in the quarter actually.

So it's not a margin shift issue. It is really a timing of volume issue and we hope we will show you that when we look at the fourth quarter and you see the orders again and you look at the total year orders, you are going to feel pretty good about it.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Is there something that is driving the delay? Is it financing? Is it uncertainty about energy prices or is it just noise, you think?

KEITH SHERIN: I think we saw projects push in the quarter across the business for whatever reason whether it is financing or it's the ability to get the resources they need to do the project in certain parts of the world. We have some constraints. You know if you look in Australia, the place is just packed with orders and opportunities and they are trying to get the ability to execute. So it is a combination of things. But it doesn't change our outlook at all on the view for Oil & Gas. That is for sure.

JEFF IMMELT: I think it is mainly noise, Jeff. I really do.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay and just one last one. Did you say aero spares were up some 25%?

KEITH SHERIN: If you look -- the reported is down 2 at the $22 million a day, Jeff. But we have this Aviall order than we did last year and every quarter that it was for -- not the core business production spares where they are going to handle that for us and that kind of distorts the average daily order rate. If you compare it ex that Aviall order, it is up about 25%. So at $22 million a day -- and again, I think part of that is the comparison last year. We really dipped in the third quarter last year as the parked planes went in and as people pushed out maintenance, we were down in the $17 million, $18 million a day range.

So part of it is that. But at $22 million a day, that is a really good order rate for us and a very healthy order rate for the business.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Is the Aviall comp the same in Q4 and is it totally burned off at that point?

KEITH SHERIN: Q4 is the last quarter of it. I don't know the exact number, but it's in the Q4 numbers that I saw. I saw there was some Aviall.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Let's leave the best for last.

KEITH SHERIN: All right, Bob. How are you?

BOB CORNELL: The pre-provision earnings and [had] capital less than I thought at $2.2 billion versus an estimate of $2.7 billion. But from what you said, it sounds like impairments were over $1 billion because loss and impairments were $2.8 billion. My point is that it looks like the pre-provision earnings -- the net interest margin actually was a positive in the quarter. Could you just take us through that a little bit and tell us what is going on in the impairments, what might happen in the fourth quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, first -- in terms of pretax, pre-provision, I will go from 2Q to 3Q.

BOB CORNELL: Right.

KEITH SHERIN: We were $2.7 billion in 2Q; $2.2 billion in 3Q, so it is down about $500 million. $300 million of that is the higher marks and impairments. You've got to remember in the quarter we had about $200 million of that comes from the GECAS annual impairment review. And that was a little high and that was higher than what we had last year, obviously.

We had another $100 million in treasury in marks and impairments that again at the end of the day, those hedge marks go to zero when the instrument gets to the end of its life, but that was $100 million. And then we also had a little bit year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter when you look, we had a Regency positive in the second quarter that doesn't repeat.

So I think if you look at it, our view is if you do pretax -- so you just do pretax, Q2 was $700 million; Q3 is $500 million, down $200 million, it is really all of the impairments in GECAS -- higher impairments in GECAS quarter-over-quarter. And even at that level, it is pretty good profitability for GECS since part of this turnaround.

I mean it gives us plenty of pretax. We don't believe we're going to have any payment under the income maintenance agreement. And again, I think the impairments at the end of the day those are not run rate types of things. Those are things that we are having to deal with on a quarter-by-quarter basis and they are not going to be staying at those levels in the run rates forever.

BOB CORNELL: What was the net interest margin third over second? Was that -- is it trending up or trending down?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know what that number is, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Well, I guess the point is are you seeing some margin compression in the business?

KEITH SHERIN: No, overall we were at [5 2] versus [5 1]. So [5 1] versus [5 2] in the second quarter, [5 1] -- so it is running at about that rate. But I think the big -- the bigger thing is if you look at the new volume we did and we covered that in here in the amounts in the ROIs, you are talking about [2 6] ROI in the new volume we did. That is really attractive.

BOB CORNELL: So just to make it clear (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers) Come in at a very attractive rate.

BOB CORNELL: You had $300 million in the higher marks and impairments third quarter over second quarter. Is that what you said?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I did.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, Noelia. I think that is the end of the Q&A. Thank you, everyone. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. Just a few housekeeping items here if you can stick with me for a minute. We will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today that we started doing last quarter. And I do have several events to announce.

First, we will be hosting our GE Healthcare Analyst Meeting in New York City on November 9. Please visit our website for details. Second, we will host our GE Capital webcast on December 7. We will send out details once that is finalized.

Third, our Annual Outlook Meeting with our Chairman and CEO in New York City, which we hold every year will be held on December 14. More information will be sent out closer to that date.

And then finally, our fourth quarter 2010 earnings webcast will take place on Friday, January 21. So if you could put those on your calendar and join us, that would be great. As always, JoAnna and I will be available to take questions later today. Thank you very much, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes your presentation and you may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gemeds : GE Healthcare | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
iwind : Wind Energy | i347 : Electric Lighting Equipment | irenewee : Renewable Energy Equipment | i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | iindstrls : Industrials | i1 : Energy | i16 : Electricity/Gas Utilities | i16101 : Electric Power Generation | i163 : Electric Power Generation - Alternative Energy | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ieutil : Electric Utilities | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i951 : Health Care | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | gaero : Aero/Aviation Sports | csbnew : Starting a Business | gtrans : Transport | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | csmlbs : Small Business/Entrepreneurs | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | lith : Lithuania | baltst : Baltic States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101029e6af000gr
  


 HD
 Q2  2010  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
16,867 words
   PD
16 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, thank you, Noelia. Good morning, and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's second-quarter 2010 earnings webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning, and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor. We will have time for Q&A at the end.

   TD
As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks. Good morning, everyone. Just at the outset I would say I think the GE team had a really great quarter.

Our environment continues to improve. Media buying was strong. Rail loadings were positive. Revenue passenger miles were positive. Losses have declined, and credit demand is up, and equipment orders were positive.

We are still cautious in a few areas. We're working through a difficult commercial real estate cycle. After many quarters of decline, demand for electricity finally rebounded in the second quarter, and we think that is encouraging.

As many people have written, we think this is a multispeed recovery. So the economy is going to strengthen at different paces around the world.

Our earnings growth resumes. We are excited about that. EPS is up 15%.

I think everyone likes what they see in GE Capital. The losses peaked and earnings are rebounding. And we had strong performances at NBCU, Healthcare, Consumer, and Energy.

The GE team's execution was very strong. Increased margins. We are on track for $13 billion to $15 billion of full-year cash flow from operating activities. And we had $74 billion of cash on the balance sheet at the end of the quarter.

That gives us many positive capital allocation options ahead. I would say if anything those options strengthened during the quarter given our strong cash performance. So I am very pleased with the way we executed in the second quarter.

I always go through four operational updates on the Company in general. The first one is with GE Capital. Really same as in the past; all the metrics are improving.

I think the one I would point out on this page is the Tier 1 common ratio at 8.1%, despite FX having an impact on equity. We think that is very positive. And as the GE Capital earnings improve, that is only going to accelerate.

ENI, we're making progress. We announced the sale of BAC yesterday, and we are well on our way towards the commitments we made on ending that investment. So we have very strong liquidity and very strong capital positions, and those got better in the second quarter.

The second thing is how our commercial teams are performing particularly in orders. This is our first quarterly orders growth since the third quarter of '08.

Europe had -- or I'm sorry, Energy had 20% equipment growth. Tech 14%. Service had many bright spots compared to some one-timers last year like nuclear fuels.

And the backlog is steady. It is up 12% quarter over quarter. Pretty broad-based strength, and so I think we feel good about where we stand.

The backlog really is flat ex-FX, and we expect single-digit orders growth in the second half of the year. These are always tough to predict given the lumpy nature. But when we look at our funnels that is what we see looking outward.

The third area is in operational improvement. We expanded margins in the second quarter. We had good performance overall. 70 basis points performance to 17.1% which is, I think everyone would agree, good execution by GE.

Positive margins really driven by a positive value gap from a pricing and deflation standpoint. We have done aggressive restructuring over the past two or three years, and those cost savings are showing up in the bottom line, and we think that it's great.

We have done that while investing heavily in research and development. A significant increase, up 14% year-to-date. We have targeted to introduce 30% more products this year. We are funding adjacencies in areas like batteries, in areas like that. And we are growing our global position.

We really have a deep pipeline of leadership products like that GEnX in Aviation. And falling behind that is the Tech-X and the Leap-X, and we're filling out the product line.

We are launching two new gas turbines in the second half of the year. Multiple new Healthcare, both from an information standpoint, information technology, and also diagnostic imaging devices. Increasing our locomotive advantage. Launching Smart Appliances.

So we really do have a deep pipeline. So we are investing in organic growth while growing margin rates, and we think that is a good sign for investors.

Lastly, good operational improvement in cash. Solid cash flow in the second quarter; $6.3 billion year to date. Our CFOA advanced ahead of net income and depreciation.

Again in general, while we are seeing progress decline, our working capital is offsetting that. So that is kind of the tail of the tape so far this year.

We have a very strong balance sheet with consolidated cash of $74 billion. You go down the walk, you see lots of free cash flow which is a big part of the GE business model. Just lots of cash available for capital allocation as we look at the year.

So we continue to build the cash balance. We are on track for CFOA for the year. And I think the cash story and the balance sheet strengthening story is a very positive story for GE and our investors.

So with that, let me turn it over to Keith and he will go through the operations.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff, I am going to start with the summary of the second quarter. For the quarter we had continuing operations revenues of $37.4 billion, which were down 4%.

See the pieces. Industrial sales at $24.4 billion were down 6%, and that is right in line with our expectations.

You go back to the second and third quarters of last year, we estimated that our equipment revenues could be down 10% to 15% 2010 based on the orders profile we were seeing. In December we updated that to say that we thought equipment orders -- equipment revenue could be down 5% to 10% this year. And through the first half, the equipment revenues are down 8%, so that is right in line with what we had as expectations.

Financial Services revenue at $13.1 billion, down 2%. I will show you more of that on the GE Capital page. We earned $3.3 billion of net income, which is up 14%.

And for earnings per share we earned $0.30, as Jeff said, which includes the cost of the preferred dividend. And the EPS results are up 15%.

As Jeff covered, the total cash flow from operating activities was $6.3 billion year to date, which puts us right on track for our total year estimate.

For taxes, the consolidated tax rate for the second quarter is 21%. That is up from 7% in the second quarter of '09 mainly because of the improvement in highly taxed pretax earnings principally at GE Capital.

GE tax rate is in line with 2009. As you look at the rest of the year we expect the GE rate for the full year to be somewhere in the mid-20s, a bit lower than we had in the second quarter due to the income mix between GE and GE Capital and some possible second-half audit resolutions that we have talked about.

On the right side -- one final point. The total GECS tax benefit, I say on the chart that it's a lower benefit. The total benefit in Q2 was $570 million lower than last year's Q2.

On the right side are the segment results. You can see our Industrial businesses ex-Media had $3.6 billion of segment profit, which was down 2% from last year. NBC Universal had both revenue and profit growth. GE Capital earned $830 million, up 93%.

Overall the segment profit was up 8%. And with lower restructuring at the corporate level, partially offset by higher interest, the total earnings were up 14%. So it is great to be back delivering strong earnings growth.

Before I cover the business highlights, here is a summary of the second-quarter items that impacted our results. As you can see there were very few items to break out this quarter.

First, as we have continued to report, we had a total impact of $0.01 from restructuring and other charges. We continue to reduce our lighting cost structure. We had some restructuring in water, Healthcare, and global banking.

We had two gains in the quarter. We sold a portion of our CFM engine teardown business to Snecma, and we realize a $77 million after-tax gain on that. And we had an environmental insurance settlement that occurred in the quarter for a $75 million after-tax gain. So the restructuring offsets the gains.

We also booked $186 million of additional reserves for our Grey Zone liability in Japan, and I've got a lot more on that on the next page. I'm going to spend a little bit of time on Grey Zone.

As you know our Japanese consumer businesses is in runoff, in discontinued operations. We sold the business to Shinsei in September of 2008.

As you can see on the top left-hand corner of this chart, at the time of the deal we started with $2.2 billion of coverage for future claims through the Shinsei loss share agreement. Through the first-quarter 2010 we had booked another $500 million of additional reserves that related to both the tougher economy in Japan as well as the legislative and regulatory changes that were occurring in the country and affecting the Grey Zone claims.

As you can see from the chart on the upper right we continue to see the claims decline. That is average daily claims on top and then the exposure per claim on the bottom. But the claim trends have not come down as quickly as we anticipated. And because of that we booked an additional $186 million of reserves this quarter.

In total we settled $2.2 billion of claims to date and we have an additional $700 million of reserves on the books today. So I want to go through a couple of facts about our book in Japan, then the dynamics of our portfolio.

First, our liability relates to a closed runoff book. We stopped all new lending as of October 2008. We capped the interest rates for all the accounts by June of 2009 at the 18% level.

The existing balances that we have amortize off by the middle of 2013, so they are all in a runoff, in sort of a term loan runoff.

Shinsei is responsible for all credit losses. So a bankruptcy event is a credit loss; and GE retains the Grey Zone liability, which is the amount above the 18% interest, generally up to around 28%.

And finally, 95% of our remaining customers are current on their existing loans, so this is a runoff book with current payments by the vast majority of the customers. So, when you put those dynamics together the current loss estimate we book to has a few assumptions. I have oversimplified this model, but here is the way we have modeled this so far.

The rate of new claims continues to decline. For instance, from March to June our total claims have come down by 9% a month. And in our model we project the claims to come down on average 11% a month over the next year. June's average daily claims came in 14% below May, so that is ahead of what the assumptions are in our model but it's one data point.

With that rate of claims reductions, basically the model assumes the number of claims by the time we get to 2012 become de minimis, and the average exposure per claim remains consistent with the May levels, and we see the impact from the loss mitigation efforts that are in place. So those assumptions support the $700 million of current reserves.

Now the tougher part here is pegging behavior as we get out into '11 and '12. We know that the more time that people are paid up, the balances are paid off, the less likely they are to claim.

There are also a lot of uncertainties. There is the new government lending restrictions that went into place in June. We have not seen an impact from those yet. There is the state of the economy. So there are a lot of variables here.

But if you just want to run a sensitivity -- and I think this is one that may size this for people -- as an example, if the claims continue to run down at only 3% a month, which is consistent with the average since we sold the business, so if you go back to the [end] when we sold the business at Shinsei the claims have come down on average 3% a month. But that is significantly below the recent pace of deceleration as you can see on the chart. But just use that as an assumption.

That means the tail would extend out another five years, even though in the middle of 2013 all the accounts that we have balances on will have matured and should've been paid down. So if you run the tail out through five years and you keep the loss exposure at current levels, this set of assumptions would result in about 4 times the incremental claims that we have modeled in our estimates today, and about $1.2 billion of incremental financial exposure.

So on the other hand, we have added a lot of resources to this effort over the last six months. If we can execute some of the best practices that we learned from some others in Japan, we could impact the existing $700 million reserve favorably by $50 million to $75 million.

So there is a very dynamic situation here. We're going to continue to give you quarterly updates on what is happening, but at the end of the day we believe the ultimate exposure here is very manageable for GE.

So with that, let me jump into the businesses. I am going to start with GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team had a great quarter. We believe this is the start of a longer-term trend of positive earnings momentum.

Revenue at $12.3 billion was down 3% driven by the lower assets. A real positive in the quarter was the significant improvement they had in earnings quality, with pretax earnings of $741 million. Net income of $830 million was up 93%. That is driven by lower credit costs; it is driven by better margins; and it is partially offset by some higher real estate impairments.

Our $487 billion of ending net investment is well ahead of plan. Even if you exclude the impact of the stronger dollar, which if you go back to the chart Jeff showed you on the ENI walk, we are at year-end target of $500 billion. So we are already at the year-end target of $500 billion. We are well on the way to our $440 billion in 2012. And that gives us lots of flexibility on originations, on funding, and on M&A going forward.

We had a strong volume quarter with good margins. Total commercial volume at $10.3 [billion] was up 24%; cover some more on that in a minute.

We had $2.8 billion of losses and impairments, which were down $500 million from Q1, mostly driven by lower consumer losses as our book continues to improve. And I will cover more on that as well.

The unrealized loss estimate in commercial real estate is down to $6.3 billion from approximately $7 billion at year-end. On lower receivables our reserve coverage at 2.66%, an all-time high.

Team continued to do a good job on costs. As Jeff said, we announced the BAC disposition, which is going to give us some more ENI flexibility, about $8 billion when it closes, which we would expect probably in the fourth quarter.

Based on our first-half pretax results, it seems that there shouldn't be any need for a contribution from GE to GE Capital under the Income Maintenance Agreement; that is what IMA stands for. So really a great quarter.

Let me do a few highlights by business that are down on the left side if you look. Consumer had a very strong quarter. They earned $735 million. That is $484 million more than last year's Q2. The earnings growth came from over $400 million of lower credit losses and $100 million of lower costs.

Our US retail finance business earned $393 million, which was up over 100%. Again that is driven by portfolio quality improvements and better margins.

Our global banking business earned $293 million, up 13%, also driven by lower credit costs. And UK home lending earned $39 million in the quarter, and I will cover more on that portfolio in a few pages.

Our commercial Real Estate business remained the one tough area in GE Capital, as we expected. The business lost $524 million net, driven by $280 million of after-tax credit losses on our debt portfolio.

In the quarter, we saw a 3% decline in asset values for the properties where we book those loss reserves. So the valuation declines have definitely slowed and they appear to be less than what we anticipated as we went into the year, and that is good news.

We also had $287 million of after-tax marks and impairments on our equity book. I would say there are some positives in real estate. I mentioned the unrealized losses down. We've continued to shrink the portfolio. Assets are down from operations over $3.5 billion from the first quarter.

Delinquency dollars are flat from Q1 to Q2, and non-earning assets were down $130 million from Q1 to Q2. So we also had a few property sales; we sold about $400 million in the quarter. However, while there is some market commentary that things are getting more positive in commercial real estate, we still expect the real estate book to remain under pressure for the near future.

Commercial Lending and Leasing business also had a good quarter. Earnings of $312 million were up 28%. We had over $200 million of lower losses and better margins, which more than offset the tough comparisons from the 2Q '09 Genpact gain.

GECAS also had another great quarter. Earnings of $288 million were basically flat as higher core income offset about $30 million of higher impairments.

Energy Financial Services also had a great quarter, driven by core income growth and a gain from the sale of our Regency general partnership position. So overall, a great quarter as GE Capital turns around here.

Next I wanted to cover an update on financial regulatory reform. I know everybody knows there is still a ton of work to do to finalize the legislation. So the outcome right here is -- this is what we expect based on what we know today. And what we know today, we think the impact is going to be manageable, and I thought I would just cover some of the pieces.

First and foremost, the good news is the GE business model is intact. We can continue to own GE Capital and the financial supervision will be focused on GE Capital. We will continue to be able to finance GE product sales on market terms at an arm's length, as we have been doing. So that doesn't change.

We will retain ownership of our banks, the ILC and the FSB in Utah.

Second, as we look at capital requirements, we think they should be within our GE Capital earnings growth and asset reduction plans. You saw our Tier 1 went up even in the quarter, even with an impact from FX on equity, as we continue to shrink the book and reduce our leverage. We feel confident that we're going to be able to meet whatever the requirements are to be well capitalized.

Third, we do expect the Fed will be our regulator. The transition is supposed to occur in the 12 to 18 months after the legislation is enacted. As we said, we have been preparing for this for more than a year with the help of outside third parties.

Fourth, we need to see the final regulatory rules surrounding the Volcker rule. However, we believe that the impact on GE Capital is not going to be significant.

We have about $1.8 billion investment in private equity sponsored funds, and those are either going to run off or reach levels that are less than 3% of Tier 1 Capital in the four- to 12-year phase-in that is contemplated in the legislation that we have out there.

Fifth, we have already lowered our late fees on our US private label credit card business, and we are not a big interchange player. So I think that is going to have a small impact on us.

Finally, proposals on derivatives will require us to post collateral going forward, like everyone else. But the book is grandfathered. It will be on a going-forward basis, and we can just use some of the cash that we are already carrying for that. We don't see any impact from holding 5% of securitizations. Basically securitizations are already on book and we hold 5% in a different form today, so that is not going to have an impact.

So a lot of work, obviously, still to be finalized, but that summarizes the impact that we see today.

On portfolio quality, things continue to improve. I will start with equipment on the left side. Our 30 day past-due delinquencies are better. They are down 21 basis points, and that is pretty broad. Americas were down 24, Europe was down 47, and Asia was down 11.

The total Commercial non-earnings are down about $500 million in the second quarter versus the first quarter, which is good news. It's down 6 basis points to 2.99%. You can see that in the supplementals that we put out with the earnings press release.

But the equipment, which is a subset of Commercial, non-earnings are up over $100 million. It's up about 21 basis points to 3.07% as you can see here, the non-earnings.

And that is driven by one account. We had one large account that went into non-earning even though it is still paying current.

On the bottom you can see Real Estate delinquencies are up. We expect them to continue to be up. But the Real Estate non-earning dollars went down $130 million from Q1 to Q2.

On the right side, on the Consumer, you can see delinquencies are down 6 basis points in total. It is a split story, as it has been. The non-mortgage is down 42 basis points, driven by our North American retail book. That is down 87 basis points as the underwriting actions that we took continue to lead to better results. We have had four consecutive quarters of declining delinquency there, and that is very positive.

On the mortgage book you can see delinquencies are up 71 basis points. It is principally driven by Australia where the delinquency dollars are flat but the percents went up because of the book runoff. We had a similar phenomenon in the UK home lending book.

Those trends are the same for non-earning assets. Overall, Consumer non-earning assets are down $500 million from the first quarter.

Finally, in the UK home lending book, we are down to 956 houses in the real estate we own at the end of the quarter. That is our lowest level since the second-quarter 2008. And we realized 117% of our carrying value for the houses that we sold in the quarter, so the improvements that we are seeing in delinquencies in non-earning assets are going to lead to lower losses as we go forward.

Next is an update on reserve coverage. Reserves ended the quarter at $9.1 billion and coverage increased above our historic high mark to 2.66%.

We do have lower reserves. You can see it went from $9.5 billion to $9.1 billion; but we did not release reserves into income. I don't know how to get any clearer on that. We tried to highlight it in the box at the top of the page.

In the second quarter we had $2.2 billion of write-offs, which resulted in lower assets. When we have a write-off, we actually remove the receivable from the books. It is a balance sheet event and it is not a release to income. It is actually removing a delinquent or non-earning asset.

We added $2 billion in new provisions. The amount of new provisions we add is based on two things, really. One, the book is smaller, so you are going to have less provisions because you have less assets that you are providing against. And, two, the improving asset quality.

Then finally we also had an impact of $200 million from the stronger dollar at the end of Q2 versus Q1.

So you can see the split of the reserves. We increased our Commercial reserves by $200 million in the quarter, principally the real estate loans where I said we added some reserves. We're up to $1.8 billion of reserves in Real Estate, and 73% of our impaired loans are paying current.

So we are marking basically a lot of the loan book to market. It is roughly -- when you are at 100% LTV on the loan book you deal with the volatility on a quarterly basis. But with a lot of the customers paying current, we think we are going to do better than some of these reserves that we have put up.

Then finally, across the rest of the Commercial book, obviously our secured lending positions are very important in minimizing the losses, given default. We feel good about that.

On the Consumer, reserves are down $600 million. Assets are down $12 [billion]; they are down 7% quarter-over-quarter. Delinquencies are down over $1 billion, and most of the FX impact that I talked about was in Consumer.

So one final thing here, it's the non-earning numbers aren't on the page. The coverage went up, but the non-earning pages are in the supplemental schedule, and non-earning assets are down in total $1 billion from Q1 to Q2, which is also a positive.

So if you look at the quarter, we increased the Commercial reserves again. Our overall coverage and our non-earnings coverage are both up in the quarter.

I will wrap up GE Capital with a few comments on volume and our outlook. Originations continue to get better. I think we are in a differentiated space here. We are playing in the midmarket. We have got a green light on our midmarket and small and medium enterprise originations. And the total on-book volume was up 22% versus the prior quarter to $40 billion, so the teams are growing their volume in the quarter. And year over year it is up positively.

Our Commercial Lending and Leasing business, which is right over the target of midmarket and small and medium enterprise pipeline for future business continues to grow. It went from $33 billion to $37 billion. That is a combination of proposals, active credit reviews on specific amounts that customers want, and things that are in the backlog. So that is a positive.

The core US midmarket business was $5.7 billion in the quarter. That is up 75% over Q1. So these indicators are delivering real volume on the books.

The retail finance volume was up strongly year over year and the returns remain high. We are getting good returns on our book. In the quarter, margins were up overall in GE Capital; we are up to 5% about in the first quarter. We are up around 5.3% in the second quarter.

So things are really turning here and the volume picture feels pretty good.

On the right side is the outlook that Mike Neal covered in June. You can see we expect more of the same that we saw in Q2 for the second half. Continue to have revenue down as we are ahead of our shrinkage on the ENI plan.

Margins are good. Losses and expenses are good, and the pretax and the earnings are definitely better.

So if you want to do it by business, if you look at the bottom right, it's the earnings outlook for the second quarter versus -- the second half of 2010 versus what we had in 2009. Overall, everything at GE Capital feels like it's getting better, and that is good news.

Next I will move to Industrial. I am going to start with NBC Universal. Jeff Zucker and the team delivered a strong performance in the quarter. Revenues at $3.7 billion were up to 5%. Segment profit of $607 million was up 13%.

It is really a straightforward quarter. We had continued leadership by our cable properties. Cable revenue at $1.2 billion was up 7%.

Segment profit was up 10%, again led by entertainment. Saw continued strength at USA and Bravo and Oxygen. We had a good performance at CNBC; op profit was up 9%.

In broadcast, we had a pretty good quarter. Revenues of $1.4 billion were up 1% and segment profit was up 6%.

We saw continued strength in the ad markets. The scatter was up over 20% in the second quarter. The local stations market continues to be very strong. In the second quarter, local stations were up 25% after being up 15% in the first quarter.

You know, the ratings are down in the summer for all the networks, but we were off to a pretty good start. We've got the number-one show with America's Got Talent. The development that we have invested in was well received and probably one of the biggest highlights in the quarter was the upfront.

In total, NBC was up about 18% in dollars booked. About half of that was from higher sellout and about half of that was better pricing. And Leno returned, as you know, and he has maintained a 23% margin over the alternatives in the demo, so that feels pretty good.

Film & Parks also had a positive quarter. Revenue was up 6%. Segment profit was up over $40 million.

The film business had a better performance at the box office with Get Him to the Greek. And we had a fantastic start to our automated film, Despicable Me, at the start of the third quarter.

The parks had single digit increases in both attendance and per cap V spending. Segment profit was down slightly in the quarter from our marketing spend for the opening of Harry Potter World in Orlando and the King Kong 360 3-D in Hollywood. And both of those are off to fantastic starts.

The regulatory review is progressing as expected. We were happy to receive EU approval this week for the Comcast-NBCU joint venture. And hulu and NBC continue to have -- CNBC.com continue to have very strong growth in the quarter. So overall pretty solid quarter for NBC Universal.

Next is Technology Infrastructure. John Rice and the team delivered a second quarter in line with our expectations given their environment, which was challenging. Revenues of $9 billion were down 6%. Segment profit of $1.6 billion was down 11%.

If you go business by business, I will start with Aviation. Second-quarter orders of $3.9 billion were down 6% year over year. We continued to have major equipment orders down.

We had $1.6 billion of major equipment orders; that was down about 8%. We had $920 million of commercial engine orders. $200 million of military orders; military orders were down about 13%. The backlog ended the quarter at $19.2 billion, which is down about 3% for the quarter.

Service orders were down 5%. Commercial spare parts orders were $20.3 million per day, which was reported down 7%; but if you adjust for the 2009 Aviall order that would be down about 2%.

Revenues of $4.3 billion were down 8% reflecting the impact of the lower new engine shipments; we were down about 4%. And lower spare parts sales, which was down about 11%, principally from fewer overhauls.

We had about 80 fewer overhauls during the quarter. We have seen airlines defer overhauls, and we also see a decrease in the scope of overhauls and repairs that came through our shops, driven by the airlines preserving cash. We had some impact, I think, a little bit of a delay because of the ash impact in Europe in the beginning of the quarter.

Overall segment profit of $879 million was down about 5%, primarily driven by the lower volume on engines and services, as I said, partially offset by the gain that I covered on the quarterly items page. We also had a positive value gap in the quarter, price positive with deflation.

So if you normalize the op profit for Aviation I think for the first half, we have had deals in this year and deals that didn't repeat from last year. If you'd normalize the op profit excluding the deal transactions in both years, Aviation op profit would be down about 10% driven by the volume pressure in overhauls and lower commercial unit shipments.

Healthcare had another strong quarter, a nice turnaround here. Orders of $4.3 billion were up 6%. Equipment orders were up 9%. Saw a pretty strong market.

Global diagnostic imaging orders were up 13% with broad participation. The US was up 5%; China was up 38%; India was up 77%; the Asia-Pacific region, including Japan, was up 21%.

MR was very strong with orders up 27% driven by our new Optima 1.5T wide bore product which was well received in the market. Service orders were up 2%. In the quarter, revenue of $4.1 billion was up 3% driven by equipment up 6% and flat services. And the segment profit of $661 million was up 12% driven by the higher volume and the benefits from last year's restructuring.

Transportation continues to be impacted by just a tough operating environment, although there are some signs of improvement for the future. The first one that we talked about were the orders at $1.2 billion in the quarter. They are up 84%. We had $660 million of equipment orders, which is up 400%, including a 200-unit North American order. So that is a positive sign.

We also saw some strength in the off-highway vehicle orders. We had $114 million of orders in the quarter which were up 150%. For operations, revenues of $700 million in the quarter were down 34%.

Really two factors. We had 30% fewer locomotive shipments, at 80 locomotives this quarter versus 119 last year in the quarter. And we had 37% lower services reflecting the impact of the parked locomotives that we have talked about. So segment profit of $26 million was driven by the lower volume in equipment and services.

Another positive here I would say is that the customer operating environments continue to improve. Q2 volume was up 18% for the railroads. Parked locomotives, which are still a drag in services, have improved though. They went from 4,000 to 3,000 in the quarter and that should begin to help our service business going forward.

Next is Energy. John Krenicki and the Energy team delivered another solid quarter despite the lower volume. Our revenues at $9.5 billion were down 9%, but we had good operating leverage. Segment profit of $1.9 billion, up 3%.

Both Energy and Oil & Gas had similarly quarterly profiles as you see on the bottom left. If you look at Energy, orders of $8 billion were up 8% in the quarter. Equipment orders of $3.7 billion were up 19%. This is just a great quarter on orders here.

We had thermal orders of $1.7 billion; that is up 45%. In the first quarter we talked about the Iraq order that was going to happen in the second quarter. It did happen. That was for 25 gas turbines. And overall we had orders for 42 gas turbines versus 25 last year.

Thermal orders price was down 1%. Wind orders of $600 million were up 7%, so positive wind orders are good. We had orders for 248 wind turbines, up 32 from last year. And the wind orders price was down about 8%.

We had mixed orders in the rest of the business. Aero equipment orders of $150 million were down 40%, but Jenbacher equipment orders of $180 million were up 93%. So you're seeing a mix around the world.

Service orders were flat at $4.3 billion, and Energy services at $3.2 billion were up 6%, including over $200 million of Smart Grid orders, which was up 50%.

The one drag here is nuclear service orders at about $400 million of orders in the quarter, but they are down about 25%. Those fuel reloads have been lumpy, as I have said in the past.

In the quarter on operations, revenue of $8 billion was down 8% driven by the equipment being down 16% and services up 5%. We shipped 31 gas turbines versus 42 last year in the second quarter. And we shipped 511 wind turbines versus 680 last year in the second quarter.

Segment profit of $1.7 billion was up 3%, as higher pricing and direct material deflation more than offset the impact of that lower volume.

On Oil & Gas, Claudi Santiago and the Oil & Gas team also delivered another solid performance. They are seeing a pretty strong market. Orders of $2 billion were up 10%. They were up 14% ex-FX driven by strong growth in equipment, which was up 20%.

Services were down 3%, but they were up 1% ex-FX.

Equipment is up, driven by a pickup in investment in the downstream market. We haven't seen this in a while. Refiners and petrochemical plants had really invested less during the oil price pullback in 2007 to 2009, and we are seeing a lot of increasing activity as oil prices have picked up.

We saw particular strength in Kuwait and Colombia, and we saw 2 times the number of smaller projects globally. Drilling and production was also up broadly. We saw particular strength in drill stacks for use in offshore drilling ships slated for the Brazilian market.

We had an order for a couple of ships and we expect another 25 to 30 ships to be built over the next two to three years. We also received another great order in the quarter for the Gorgon Australian LNG project; it was about $225 million.

Service orders, organically up 1% driven mostly by lower orders for upgrades in parts in the downstream market. But the backlog in services is up 11% year over year.

In the quarter in terms of operations, revenues of $1.8 billion were down 9% driven by the lower reactor sales for refineries. But that was partially offset by the strong growth in drilling and production equipment revenues. Service revenues were down 6%, driven by the lower spare parts for refineries.

Segment profit of $292 million; that was up 3% as our direct material deflation more than offset the lower volume.

The final business page is on Home & Business Solutions. Charlene Begley and the team had another strong quarter. Look at revenues of $2.2 billion; they were up 4%. And great segment profit, $143 million, was up 59%.

Appliance orders were flat. We saw 4% growth in the retail market, but that was offset by the contract channel which was down about 9% given the weak multifamily market that is out there.

Lighting orders were very strong, up 12%, driven by the growth in energy-efficient products. We continue to invest in building Energy Star qualifying appliances in the US, and we received $48 million of E*Star credits in the quarter. That shows up in net income, not in the segment profit.

Segment profit growth was driven by the benefits from the restructuring. We also had positive deflation which more than offset price declines. So overall, another solid quarter in H&BS.

I'm going to wrap up with a chart on Europe. Basically over the last two months we have fielded a lot of investor questions on Europe and tried to summarize them on the page.

Will GE Capital losses increase if there is more economic turmoil in Europe?

We do have a substantial business in Europe. Our businesses are profitable. They are performing well. The net income was $183 million in the quarter on all our capital assets in Europe, up 79% from the first quarter. 80% of our assets are secured. So it is a majority commercial finance type business or mortgages.

And the losses were down over 50% from last year; and they were down 20% from the first quarter. We hold less than $300 million of sovereign debt. We don't think that is going to have an impact on us.

Second question that we got a lot -- will currency translation negatively impact earnings?

We have got a pretty global manufacturing base as we have talked about. It gives us a significant natural hedge. Foreign exchange hasn't been a big variable for us in the past. It has been less than $0.01 a quarter.

In Q2 we had less than $50 million impact from FX; it was actually positive. We will be impacted by the euro as you translate the GE Capital assets and equity. But even with that, you saw our capital ratios improve.

A couple macro questions. Could the austerity program slow the growth in Europe? Does the lower euro help European competitors?

I think we will have to see. We have 14% of our Industrial revenue in Europe and we have already been basically dealing with a slow-growth Europe. We will have to see what competitors do with the pricing.

But as fast as we are worried about the dollar going to 1-to-1 now we're worried about it going the other way. So I think the global nature of the Company and the broad manufacturing base we have helps us to kind of weather these short-term volatility periods. And based on what we see today I don't think European volatility should have a material impact on our earnings.

Now, Jeff and I were in Europe the week before last. We covered seven countries. We met with many customers and government officials, bankers, and employees. So, Jeff, maybe you could make a few comments on Europe before we go into the end here.

JEFF IMMELT: No, Keith, as Keith said, we had a lot of chance to talk to people. I would say while governments are adjusting, the companies and partners that we work with across Europe are all continuing to invest. A lot of them have export franchises. So there just seems to be a little bit of a disconnect between what has to happen broadly from a macro standpoint and where the individual companies are that we are working with.

So as Keith said, we just don't see a big systemic issue coming out of Europe, given the world we see today.

KEITH SHERIN: There seems to be a real commitment to the European Union, a commitment to the euro. The austerity programs that people have put in place seem to be calming people down.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, and I think the markets show it.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, good.

JEFF IMMELT: So I am going to end just with three charts that I used at a May investor conference, EPG. The first was on 2010. We really don't change this. It is similar to before.

I would say our Industrial business is as expected. NBCU is strengthening. GE Capital is quite good and trending better. Healthcare looks pretty good. FX is negligible.

And we expect to do more restructuring in the second half of the year to kind of invest in the Company so that we improve the long-term profitability of GE. We have always expected to do that in 2010.

So I would say on a framework just similar to before, and the signs we have talked about are reasonably strong right now.

On the next page is another one that we went over with investors and we used this chart again at the EPG. In a no-guidance world, we are just trying to say what are some of the pluses and minuses as we look out over the next few years.

I really don't see any changes for this as we sit here today. There's lots of positive catalyst, lots of new products, global growth. GE Capital is clearly going to be better. The strength of our service business.

And the Company is always managing through a number of factors -- product launches, regulation, pension expense, things like that. So we have positives and negatives. But as I weave through that we are still positioned for attractive earnings growth in 2011, given with these same set of challenges and opportunities as we look out.

Finally, again, I showed this chart about a month or so ago and we really don't have a change in that. We're not giving guidance; but we still expect an attractive financial profile with a lot of cash.

If you think about value creation, the four things we talked about at my last investor meeting and what we saw in the second quarter -- we said that a repositioned GE Capital has a significant profit growth and competitive advantage. I think the second quarter shows that the GE Capital business model is intact.

I actually think when you look out in the future for GE Capital, we are competitively advantaged versus lots of other players out there. We feel like this advantage is going to benefit investors as we look toward the second half of this year and into '11.

Growing in our Infrastructure business. We had good orders; we are investing a lot in R&D; we've got a big global footprint. So we continue to invest in that long-cycle strength.

Building expertise and value around process excellence. Our margins are good. Our cash flow from operating activities are good. Our risk management has held strong. So I think investors should feel good about that.

Capital allocation opportunities to create long-term shareholder value. I think as more things come into focus on GE Capital returning to earnings growth, financial regulatory reform, this just gives us tremendous flexibility from a cash standpoint in terms of where we invest and how we grow.

So with that, Trevor, I will turn it back to you and we will take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff, and thanks, Keith. Noelia, I think we are ready to jump into questions right now.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jeffrey Sprague, Vertical.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH: Good morning, everyone. Jeff, you perhaps created a little bit of a brouhaha -- perhaps unintentionally -- and things got maybe a little blown out in the press a couple weeks ago with your comments on China. But I am wondering if you could give us just a little bit of additional perspective on perhaps how you see the market transitioning.

Clearly there is probably an intensifying competitive dynamic starting to take form as the market is not all just about Western companies tapping the demand there, but maybe the growth and ultimate resurgence of some of these Chinese companies. Just give us some thoughts on how you navigate that landscape, and any thoughts on maybe how you might change how you approach business, kind of the JV structure, or other dynamics.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I am going to limit the dinners I have in Italy from now on, I can tell you that much. But I showed a chart at EPG on China which I think really reflects our perspective, which is -- it is an extremely big and strategic market.

We have got a big footprint of about $6 billion and we plan to grow it double digits. That our strategy will be multifaceted. We will have businesses that will completely grow in a significant way like Healthcare. In Healthcare and Aviation we will have opportunities to do joint ventures with state-owned enterprises like the one we introduced this week with Avionics with AVIC, which I think gives us a chance to leapfrog some of our competitors.

There's going to be places where we have competitors there, in the Energy business and the rail business. But when you add them all up I still view China as an immensely strategic market for GE, one that we are doing well in, one that we will continue to grow in, and one where we will have strategic opportunities from a cost and a business model standpoint as we look forward in the future.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Then just for -- actually maybe for Keith, but for either. There was a mention on supply constraints in one of the businesses, I think Healthcare. Is that actually impacting revenues in any of your businesses? What impact is it having on the organization overall?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I will start and, Keith, you can amplify it. But anybody in the electronics supply chain has seen a tightness around certain components. Healthcare for us is the biggest consumer of electronics. And as you can see the difference between orders in the last two quarters, really three quarters, and revenue -- we're building a lot of backlog.

All of us are getting better on the supply chain. I think particularly in Healthcare that just makes -- it should give us a little bit of juice for the second half of the year, that's the way I'd look at it. That is really -- I think other than Healthcare, Keith, we are not really --

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare is the only place we have really seen it, and we have seen it for a while. I think we're talking about around $50 million of revenue that maybe got hung up at the end of the quarter in the supply chain. But the teams have been working it for a couple of quarters. I think they are really working through it, and it is not going to have an impact on us.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Just one final one if I could squeeze one more in. You mentioned energy price being positive in revenues. But I think we have had a couple quarters here now where price and orders has been negative. I am just wondering if there is a visible inflection out there where you are really booking negative price through the Energy business.

KEITH SHERIN: I think if you look at the total in Energy, it is down a little bit. Thermal down 1%. Wind, not a huge number of turbines, was down 8%. I think you're probably going to continue to see price pressure in the wind area. I think you're going to see pressure in the renewables area in total.

But I think the thermal business is a little more stable. We aren't really dealing with huge volumes of growth or huge declines in volumes. It is kind of about stable at the 110, 115 gas turbines a year

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Jeff, is that this team is generating about 4% deflation this year, the sourcing team. So we have got -- I actually expect the value gap for Energy to be okay as you look forward in the future.

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Julian Mitchell, Credit Suisse.

JULIAN MITCHELL, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks. I had two questions, please. The first one on Healthcare. Obviously that is a business where you have three consecutive years of falling earnings; you have had decent earnings growth in the first half so far. Can you maybe give an update on the restructuring in Healthcare and also on the pricing?

Then secondly, within the Energy business, just what you are seeing in terms of large tendering activity of the major utilities globally in terms of thermal as well as wind equipment. Obviously large thermal orders have been fairly dormant for two years now. How quickly do you think those might pick up?

JEFF IMMELT: Why don't I take a crack at it?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, go ahead.

JEFF IMMELT: Keith you can fill in. Look, I think Healthcare we had a tough couple years, so all of us are a little bit hesitant to be super-bullish.

I think there's a couple things I like about the business right now. One is a lot of the regulatory impact is now known and being reflected; so I think that is good.

There is strong pent-up demand among our customers for technology. Our product line is very strong right now in Healthcare. So I see good interest from top to bottom.

Our emerging market growth is very strong. Our China and India businesses all grew in excess of 25% in the quarter.

And the team is doing a good job on execution -- margin rates, working capital, things like that. So I see some positives as we look at Healthcare going forward that I don't think are just one-time type items. I think there are just strong fundamental underlying dynamics as well as us doing okay in the business.

In Energy, most of the activity in the second quarter of orders came outside the United States. A lot in the Middle East and Latin America and Asia. So I think it's -- other than the Middle East they are not super-huge tenders, but they are a couple gas turbines at a time. And we've got a big sales force that can accommodate that.

I think the US has been still sluggish. No worse than it was last year, but no better. But the interest outside the United States is pretty good and we see pretty good funnels there.

That is true -- our three big wind markets are probably going to be Brazil, Canada, Turkey, places like that. So, Keith, that is my view. I don't know --

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, I agree. I think the Healthcare restructuring that we did last year, we probably spent $150 million to $200 million in projects that are less than two-year paybacks. And I think the team is doing a great job of executing. Now they are really focused on growing distribution to be able to take advantage of the growth in the developing world.

I think we're continuing to do a little bit of restructuring to help them to combine the diagnostic imaging with the rest of the product line so we've got a cleaner, streamlined structure globally. But the team is delivering. I think you see it in the order rates with new products. You see it in the profitability growth, and you see it in the margin rates.

JULIAN MITCHELL: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Keith, you gave a good bit of color on the fed oversight. So what you expect in terms of the regulatory part over the next 12 months. What kind of frame work are you managing towards as this policy develops? Maybe specifically, what kind of Tier 1 ratio and leverage ratios are you managing towards?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think what we're seeing today is what we know so far. If you look at an 8% Tier 1 ratio and you go back to what the large financial institutions in the US had to do as part of the stress tests and to be able to repay TARP, we feel like that is a very strong level of capital.

If you look at what might have to happen in the future from the new regulatory reform bill or from activity like Basel III, which we think is going to be pushed out and maybe be changed a little bit to the benefit of the large financial institutions, anything that we can foresee here we will be able to deal with based on the fact we continue to shrink the book when you get down to $440 billion of ending net investment. We aren't anticipating a dividend out of GE Capital in '11.

We do think that we will pay a normal dividend, somewhere around 45% of the earnings in 2012. But when you get down to those levels of capital, somewhere out in 2013 and 2014 we should have excess capital in our Financial Services business.

Whether we need it for some really different regulatory level or we can use it to reinvest back in the rest of the Company I think is yet to be seen. But the outlook for us based on the performance of the business, the shrinkage that we are doing -- we are shrinking in very high leverage products. The mortgage business, high leverage and as that shrinks that gives us an awful lot of capital flexibility.

So I feel like we are trying to be thoughtful about it and cautious about it. Obviously, the rules are not written. There is no prescriptive number.

But for the risks that we take in our business we feel like we are very strongly capitalized and that whatever is going to come at us we will be able to deal with on our own. And we do believe we will have capital flexibility out later in the next couple of years.

NIGEL COE: I think you have said in the past you are driving towards a 10% Tier 1. Is that still the target?

KEITH SHERIN: We have not given a number like that, Nigel. I think we want to be well capitalized in the regulatory world, and we plan to be that.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Fair enough. A couple of quick ones before I hand it over. First of all, just following on to Jeff's question, 20%-plus Energy margins is pretty spectacular. You've talked about some pricing and pressure in the backlog. I think Jeff mentioned the value gap remains okay. How do we think about the Energy margins as that [decision does] come through the revenues?

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Nigel, is that pricing on new engines is still positive and we expect that to continue. One of the things that I have talked about in the past has less to do with value gap and margins and more to do just with funding of growth and strategic funding of the Aviation business going forward. You know, my --

KEITH SHERIN: It's mostly in Energy right now, but --

JEFF IMMELT: What's that, Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: He was asking about how do we feel about Energy going forward.

JEFF IMMELT: Oh, are you talking about Energy, Nigel?

NIGEL COE: Yes, the Energy margins in particular.

JEFF IMMELT: I thought you said Aviation. So I don't know; Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think if you look at the Energy business for us, we are going to basically be dealing with slow equipment growth as we said. You saw the equipment revenues are down somewhere around 8%.

And the offset to that is the service revenue. I think the equipment-service dynamic in the Energy business is going to play out just like it is in some of our other long-cycle places. Overall we are going to be able to have pretty good margins here.

70% of our margins came out of the service business in the second quarter and through the first half. And we built a pretty good installed base. We have got a lot of units that have not gone through their major overhaul on the gas turbine fleet.

I think the one place you watch is renewables. I think you are just going to have to watch the wind market. But I think the gas turbines market is going to be relatively flat, not very bubbly or dynamic for us. And the service business is what we're going to have to drive growth in.

We are investing a lot in adjacencies. You look at investments in Smart Grid and investments in everything around energy efficiency, we feel pretty good about some of the growth opportunities there.

JEFF IMMELT: And we are seeing good, solid deflation as well.

KEITH SHERIN: Deflation, as you mentioned, yes.

JEFF IMMELT: And I don't see that slowing down.

NIGEL COE: Just a quick follow on there, Keith. You mentioned a lot of the installed fleet still hasn't had their major overhauls. When do you expect that inflection point to come through?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we need better energy demand. That is for sure. I think Jeff mentioned that we dealt with energy demand declines last year for the first time in a long, long time. And I think we need better utilization.

You saw that in the summer. The hot summer has helped quite a bit. Low gas prices helped. But at the end of the day we need some global growth, and I don't have a specific time frame for you, Nigel, on that.

But I think that we have got a lot of it under contract. We have got a huge CSA portfolio. And we will benefit, continue to benefit from the services growth in the Energy space.

NIGEL COE: Right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. I wanted to talk a little bit about some of the items on the Mosaic slide. In terms of the 11 items you've talked about on the following chart, the plus-up for earnings in 2011, or two plusses as it were. Clearly it looks like you've got good momentum in GE Capital heading into '11.

I am just trying to think about how all the pluses and the minuses on the Industrial side add up as you think about it, and whether we could see Industrial earnings down in '11, offset by that strength in Capital, to get to the overall up; or how you are looking at that right now.

JEFF IMMELT: So you know, Terry, I think we don't give guidance on '11 and we haven't done operating plans and stuff like that. Maybe the easiest thing for me to do is just kind of take you down step-by-step and give you a sense of each one of the businesses.

I think if you take a look at Energy, I think what Keith said just a second ago is probably the most uncertainty is about the wind profile and where that goes. On the plus side, I think we should see some decent orders growth. We have got a good product pipeline, not just in gas turbines but in places like distributed energy, Jenbacher, things like that. And the adjacencies orders have started to pick up, so we should see some decent momentum and tailwind out of those activities.

Oil & Gas is -- everybody is watching what is going on in the Gulf. In the meantime our orders are quite strong and our backlog is very good. We think there is still potential for our Oil & Gas business to get even stronger as we go through the year, with a very strong profile.

Aviation, revenue passenger miles are growing. Services we expect will strengthen as we get into next year. We have got big share positions across the board.

I think we will spend -- really if you look at this period of time, I would say over the last 25 years we have built a very strong leadership position in commercial aviation. In the next few years there is going to be investments not just in the GEnX but in narrow-body business jets, a whole profile and skyline of new technologies. These generate the earnings stream as you look out over the next 25 years. There's probably new planes being built that will be a $0.5 trillion of profit over the next coming years.

So we are going to invest more in R&D and product spend over the next couple years, anywhere from a couple hundred million dollars to as much as $400 million or $500 million as we look at the next few years. But that is envisioned in the '11 framework that we give.

Healthcare I think is more good than bad. Healthcare has got -- we worry a lot about government budgets and things like that, but reform is better understood. You have got an older installed base. You have got good procedure growth. You have got emerging market growth.

As Keith said earlier, we think Transportation has hit a low point, and the backlog is strong. You're going to get some juice out of this business just based on the recovery that you see going on out there.

Home & Business Solutions, retail is a little bit better, contract is still soft. We have done a good job on costs and margins in this business. We ought to continue to see decent growth.

Then we expect pension headwind to be out there in the future. But that is offset by whatever restructuring we do this year and things like that.

So Terry, when I put it all together, there is a lot of tailwind, but there are some specific things that we are going to manage our way through as we get through '11. But none of those really change the way I feel about the Company going forward.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then, Keith, maybe follow up with you on where we are with the net of restructuring expense and restructuring savings. Sounds like your first half of the year here, or at least certainly in the second quarter, you got some benefit on a net basis. Sounds like in the second half restructuring expense goes up; maybe offset by lower Industrial tax rate. Is that the way to think about that?

KEITH SHERIN: I think there's a couple factors for the second half that you would have to think about. I think there are some potential tax settlements; we would not anticipate they would fall through.

If you look at the strength in GE Capital, I think that the GE Capital team is going to continue to look at opportunities to make sure they continue to improve their earnings profile as we go forward. I don't have a specific cents per share in mind here; but we do have some projects that we are working on that we think can continue to lower the cost structure.

I think if you look at the benefits from the restructuring that we have done, they are really coming through. You can see them in margins; you can see that in our variable margins; and you can see them in our base cost productivity this year.

So I hope that we can do some more restructuring in the second half, and the teams are loading up some projects that we think will lower our cost structure and improve the profitability as we go forward.

TERRY DARLING: So, Keith, for the year, is it expense is pretty similar to the savings? Or are you net still --?

KEITH SHERIN: The expense will be less than the savings. The last couple of years we did so much restructuring, Terry, we did several billion dollars after-tax. We're not going to approach that level this year.

TERRY DARLING: Then next year the scope -- assuming the world doesn't fall apart on us again -- would be continued savings in excess of expense?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, it would.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Jeff, can we just start off with capital allocation? Could you just give us the sense of prioritization across dividends, repurchases, and M&A, in terms of how your thinking has continued to evolve with changing world events?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, I think the first thing I would say, Steven, is that we really have in many ways -- we've executed extremely strongly on the balance sheet and cash availability. I think the numbers we show you today are all at or above their -- kind of the baseline. And we still have the NBCU transaction and stuff like that out there.

So with that day as an outset I will just kind of track through. I think when you think about the dividend, I think it's important for the Board and me as we see capital losses have peaked, pretax earnings accelerating, the regulatory capital standards clarified, I think it gives us confidence as we go through that on the dividend. And that is more or less these things are all kind of falling in place. So we want to be safe, but we also want to be investor-friendly when we think about that. These are things the Board and I will talk through.

I think as you get past that, you think about buybacks and then I think it depends on alternatives. If we get -- good complementary acquisitions are available at the right value, we would look to deploy our capital there. But if our stock were valued similarly to where it is today, then doing a buyback is something that is a good alternative.

So I think the dividend is easier to focus in on and then buyback versus acquisitions just really all depends on returns and availability and things like that. We have got -- look, when we look at our financial profile, we think that is from underlying operations. And the financial flexibility is just a way to make the Company even stronger. So that is how I view the pluses and minuses on capital allocation.

STEVEN WINOKER: Right. Clearly there has been some price moves within Oil & Gas and other sectors that you have talked about as kind of priority areas over time, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, we still think the Company is going to do M&A in Infrastructure, in the right size range, and we have the cash available to do that.

Look, I think having -- just think about it. You've got something like $60 billion of cash in GE Capital. You're going to have by the end of the year $25 billion of cash at the parent. We have seen GE Capital really strengthen. Pretax is growing. Losses seem to have peaked.

Keith talked about the fact that essentially we think that GE Capital is going to be able to shrink and grow earnings into whatever capital structure it needs to have. So that gives us tremendous freedom.

The Income Maintenance Agreement -- look, we will see what the second half says. But if you just took the first half and multiplied it by 2, there is no Income Maintenance Agreement that GE Capital has needed. But we will see how that all goes as time goes on.

I just think it ought to give investors a heck of a lot of confidence in the capital allocation options available to the leadership of the Company.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. You mentioned cash flow, just Keith, maybe so I get a better idea on the Industrial cash flow and operating assets was down 10%. I know you talked about progress, collections again being offset by working capital improvements.

But even relative to revenue, are there any other negatives that are going on there that we should be aware of?

KEITH SHERIN: The only dynamic I have is that the progress is down, and we have offset that with receivables and inventory and accounts payables. I'm not aware --

STEVEN WINOKER: And CapEx. Okay. All right. Then I guess on the organic growth number, can you just give us -- last quarter was down 6%. What was it this quarter for Industrial?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, organic revenue for Industrial was down 4%.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Then the final thing is on the orders front. They were up 17%; but if you -- depending on how you treated the Iraqi order, obviously it might be I guess 3% if you thought about that from Q1 versus Q2 or somewhere in between.

Again, the progression of orders within the quarter, was that rising or falling across the Infrastructure businesses?

KEITH SHERIN: I think better. I think if you look at Energy, even ex-Iraq, positive. You look at Oil & Gas, very positive on equipment. You look at Healthcare positive. You look at Transportation, some big orders.

I think Aviation is down. The reality is that air framers are pretty full through '11 and '12.

Now we do have some encouraging signs. You saw that Boeing has said that they are going to increase the 777 from five to seven a month in mid-'11. Eventually that is going to impact us on orders on equipment.

Airbus is going to take the A320 from 34 to 36 at the end of this year. Boeing is going to take the 737 from 31.5 to 35 a month in 2012.

Those will start to flow through on equipment orders again. But we had such a big backlog that is the one that I think that is just a little slow and will stay there a little bit.

But the others I think are encouraging. It is a lumpy -- long-cycle orders are lumpy, but it's encouraging.

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Steven, you said it right. I think looking at the timing of Iraq and stripping that out, thinking about orders going forward in single-digit-ish type range is the right way to think about it.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, great. Thanks, guys. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys. You've covered a lot of ground. The corporate expense is a little less than I would've thought in my model. You talked about restructuring ramping up in the second half.

Can you give us a guide for what corporate expense is likely to be for the full year and how that might trend over the balance of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I can tell you what it is in the quarter. I think in the quarter we are down a couple hundred million, Bob. You go from $500 million of cost to $300 million, if you see that on the income statement schedule that we put out.

BOB CORNELL: Right.

KEITH SHERIN: The segment schedule. Basically that is lower structuring partially offset by higher pension. Then we had the gain that I mentioned in environmental gave you a little bit of a decline there.

I think if you normalize that, the pension continues at the normal level, the higher level. It is on track to be $1 billion pretax higher ex-restructuring for the year.

We will have to see on restructuring. I think restructuring is the flexibility we have in the second half. In the second quarter, there is about a penny after tax; that could be higher as we go into the second half of the year on the corporate line.

And I don't anticipate anything like another environmental settlement. This was a long, old case that just settled in the second quarter. So I don't think you will get that credit benefit in the corporate expenses. So I think you are probably back up closer to the $500 million level on a more normalized run rate.

BOB CORNELL: Well, we had flat for the year. Is that too high a corporate expense number for this year based on what you see now?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know how to compare to your model, Bob. I think I will ask Trevor to take a look at it with you.

BOB CORNELL: Cool. The other question is, it sounds like in Tech that the service numbers were all a little bit lighter than you would have thought. Can you just comment there a little bit, quickly?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. The place that we are seeing an impact obviously is in Aviation. It is a little lighter than we thought. The number of overhauls in the quarter was 279; that was down basically 80 overhauls from last year.

It is driven by CFM. We are seeing a lot of airlines that are under cost pressure. They are pushing out service, doing the bare minimum of service.

I think we had some impact from the lower flying hours in April from the volcano. But now you're seeing growth in revenue passenger miles. You are seeing growth in freight passenger miles. It seems like there is a three-month lag between the revenue passenger miles rolling into more overhaul activity, and maybe as much six-month lag between the freight passenger miles growing into overhaul activity.

But with both of those very positive in the first half, that should be better. Sequentially we are looking at overhauls of about 330 in the third quarter; that should be up about 10%. That's sequentially up, but it is still down versus last year about 6%.

So I think the good news is in front of us, but I think it's just going to be a little slow to materialize. And on a comparison to last year, it is still a little tough.

BOB CORNELL: Okay. You're pressed for time, I will pass the baton. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Thanks. Just digging into the orders a little bit, the comment on single-digit growth in the second half. It's kind of interesting with the tough fourth-quarter comp. Just wondering what is driving that strength in particular in the verticals?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say there is always a fourth-quarter ramp in businesses like Healthcare and Energy and stuff like that, Chris. So I think when we look at our funnels across the businesses, and you think about businesses like Transportation that are coming off a very low base, that is really what we base it on.

So again, like I said it is difficult to forecast; it is difficult to predict. It tends to be lumpy. But when we sit down -- when I sit down and visit with our commercial leaders, this is kind of the rollup that I look at.

CHRIS GLYNN: Okay, and one follow-up.

KEITH SHERIN: Energy through the first half, it is a little lumpy on even something like Iraq. Through the first half the total Energy is basically down 1%.

I think on a normalized basis that is probably better instead of worrying about the lumpiness of Iraq. Is it in or is it out? That is a pretty -- to get to flat and maybe up slightly in the second half is something the teams are working on.

CHRIS GLYNN: Okay. Then just on NBCU, I think if we back out the impairment last year, profits are actually down a little bit. Is everything going all right there with the margins? Any restructuring benefits? I was a little surprised by that.

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have anything that we are comparing to last year that gave them a positive V here. I think they had very few other income items in the quarter, transactions this year or last year. Whatever they had was the same as last year in my analysis, Chris.

CHRIS GLYNN: Okay, I must have misplaced something. Thank you.

KEITH SHERIN: In the third quarter --

JEFF IMMELT: In the third quarter --

KEITH SHERIN: Third quarter they do have a -- they did have a gain from the A&E.

CHRIS GLYNN: Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. So, GE Capital revenues are basically flat, but the assets were down dramatically. You guys really had a plan there; doing well on the cash conversion.

You talked about your contributed value margin being 5.3% versus 5%. Where -- does that contributed I margin get better? Or are you starting to already see degradation there? How does the second half look? Because I know your guidance for the year is 5% on margin.

And just a follow-on to that is -- was there anything in the quarter in GE Capital revenues that was kind of unusual that needs to be stripped out?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I don't have a lot in GE Capital that needs to be stripped out. I think the margins are better. You can see that on underwriting the margins that we're getting on new volume is very good. We are going to be rolling off some of the lower margin volume that we did in the last four years.

The margin contribution to growth in the second quarter was substantial. That is not going to change dramatically as you go forward. I mean with these high margins and the run-off and the comparisons, I think you are going to continue to get benefits from better margin in GE Capital.

STEVE TUSA: So you should be able to beat that 5% this year, it sounds like.

KEITH SHERIN: We have given you a 5% number; in the quarter it was 5.3%. If it stayed at that level, that would continue to be really good as we go through the year.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then one last question. Given the dramatic facelift of the portfolio in GE Capital, focused on more of the core business as you wind down ENI, is there reason to believe that those provisions and those reserves should be lower than historical levels out in the normalized period? Or are we just in a different credit environment where those metrics are stubbornly high?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think our reserves -- our loss provisions are going to follow our delinquencies and non-earnings. As those delinquencies and non-earnings continue to improve, our loss provisions are going to come down.

Eventually you're not going to have $9 billion of reserves. Some of it will come down, the majority through write-offs. But I believe that you're going to have a need for lower reserves in a normalized margin environment.

It is pretty clear to us that we think losses have peaked. If you look versus the fourth quarter of '09, we are $900 million less on the credit provision. Even including marks and impairments we're $600 million less than the high point.

We have got two quarters of improvement. I think you are just going to continue to see this book get better.

Now, that is subject to what happens in the world and the economy. But I think based on the outlook we see today, that is a pretty good earnings generator for the next several years.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, if I can, I would add something just to what Keith said, which is about the front-end of the business. We still have the best origination force in the industry. We are well positioned in the midmarket franchise. In a lot of the segments that we compete in we have far fewer competitors today than we did pre-crisis.

So I think not just from a loss standpoint is the scenario going to get better, but I also think from an origination standpoint we are at a very good time for GE Capital.

STEVE TUSA: Right. The pretax pre-provisioning number actually improved quite a bit too. So clearly you're getting some good headway on the margin side.

One last quick question just on the GE Aviation R&D. You talked about a couple hundred million dollars. Is that a year-over-year increase every year? Is that an annual increase from 2010 that should be sustained for the next several years? I just didn't quite understand what you were saying there.

JEFF IMMELT: (multiple speakers) Again, I just think there is a lot of new technology that is coming in, and as I look at where we're going to go in the next few years, it is going to be in that range as a year-over-year basis. (multiple speakers)

STEVE TUSA: Right, so a couple hundred million dollars a year?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say a couple hundred million dollars up to $0.5 billion.

STEVE TUSA: Per year?

JEFF IMMELT: A range.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

JEFF IMMELT: But again, guys, it's all about leadership and it's really all about driving technology at a moment in time when we think that is of most value.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks, guys. I want to just ask a couple follow-up questions. I mean the commercial real estate unrealized losses, a pretty nice directional move. How does that -- is that -- how do you think about the model?

Is that better experience in the actual properties, or somewhat of a change in assumptions based on macro variables? How do you get to that number?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think the number one thing that drives it down is we depreciated the properties we own. Number two, the impairments we take lower the book value. So those are the two biggest pieces.

We have not factored in to any changes in future rental growth or cap rates or anything to lower that amount. That is mostly coming from our performance, from our write-offs and impairments, and the depreciation of the properties.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: And that will continue. You know, we depreciate a little over $1 billion a year. And obviously with the impairments in the quarter, $500 million pretax, that is a bite that is right into the unrealized loss.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure, sure. Okay. That makes sense. Jeff, I know you talked a bit about R&D, up 14% year-over-year and you are trying to stimulate new products.

How do you see that growth in R&D? Pretty much since you have taken the job you have had a nice focus on R&D. But up 14% is a pretty good number.

When you look for 2011, 2012 kind of the out years, is there some sort of sweet spot that you hit where you don't need to grow it anymore, where you have your platforms funded?

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, definitely. Definitely, Scott. I kind of peg it at kind of between 5% and 6% of our industrial revenue. We're going to have about 30% more products this year than in the past.

I think you see that with our market share in Healthcare. As you know, this is what sets up the service revenue and all the things that come with it. So I always think that is a sweet spot that gives us a competitiveness position against all of our key competitors.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure. So basically growing with revenues from here, or growing ahead of revenues?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I would say growing more or less with revenues from here.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Just to narrow down a little bit, clearly you will have a little bit more R&D in the Aviation side. Does that mean you can take a little bit from an area that doesn't have quite the growth potential?

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say is we're going to look across the portfolio. I spike out Aviation because I think they are in a particular cycle, and there might be opportunities to reallocate inside the Company. But we also still see good potential for Healthcare and Energy and some of our other platforms as well.

KEITH SHERIN: The most valuable growth we can do is if we can invest in technology to improve our organic growth. And we are committed to it. Every single one of our strategic plans that we went through this year, Scott, the number-one thing is -- what is the R&D deck to continue to improve our competitive position?

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure.

KEITH SHERIN: The teams are committed to it and I think it is a better place for the Company to be at these levels of R&D spending.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure, sure. Agreed. Just again narrowed in on it, one of the potential side effects you could argue on Healthymagination is maybe not as much of a focus on the arms race and the next generation of CT scan or something.

JEFF IMMELT: I think that's right.

SCOTT DAVIS: But does that mean you can --

JEFF IMMELT: Again, when I look at Healthymagination, though, the share we are gaining on the lower end in places like China and India is substantial.

SCOTT DAVIS: But that doesn't require quite as much R&D spend, right?

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly, yes.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, okay. Lastly, Keith, just to clarify, the CFOA has been fantastic and working capital has come out pretty aggressively. Are we pretty close to being done with what you can do in working capital, now that presumably your growth rates are bottoming out and you will start to build backlog again?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't think so. We basically, as I said, we went through the strategic plan this summer. We are trying to get a goal. We have benchmarks for every one of our businesses and the goal that we would have is probably about a half a turn in working capital improvement each year to continue to offset the growth that we have in the businesses or any pressure from progress collections.

Two years ago we stated that as our goal, and we have been able to deliver that through the all of 2009 and the first half of 2010. So we have an operating council. We meet every month. The teams are focused on improving their processes.

Our working capital turnover went up in the second quarter again a couple of tenths in receivables and inventory and accounts payable. And there is more to do here in terms of using lean and being more efficient and sharing practices across the Company where we have better performance.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, when you look at our long-term incentive plan one of the big drivers is cumulative cash flow from operating activities. So all of the leadership team is incented to drive working capital improvement and strong CFOA. And I think this is what you see in the execution.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Sounds great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Morning. So you have talked a couple times now about expecting $25 billion of cash at the parent level by the end of the year. I guess I am just kind of wondering how much you really need to keep there.

At Finance you've got better capital ratios and leverage ratios than for some time, if ever. How much of a backstop do you still really need at the parent level? Or how much of that can you deploy?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, we haven't really decided yet on this one. I would say clearly we're going to have more cash in the future than we had pre-crisis. But with $25 billion we're going to have substantial flexibility to do the things we want to do to grow the Company.

I don't know, Keith, would you add to that?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, sure. I think we are obviously -- priority number one was to make the Company safe and secure. I think we have crossed that threshold. I think you mention at GE Capital we have got enough capital, got a lot of cash, and we have got enough cash to handle any liquidity issues there.

We are looking from an enterprise risk perspective at how much capital do you need at the parent for unforeseen events, for systemic risk. It's going to be some amount, obviously, more than we used to hold. We used to hold $2 billion at the parent; it is going to be more than that. But we have not given a specific number.

But even about whatever that threshold is, we're going to have substantial cash. We're going to be able to deploy all the NBCU cash and a lot of our free cash flow from the business operations into capital activities that will improve the future value, as Jeff said.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. Last question is, you mentioned not just today but in the past that you've got far fewer competitors in the finance business than precrisis. At least one large bank, I think another as well, mentioned sharply higher originations in the small-business lending area. Have you seen an uptick in competition as the banks have begun to recover, or any change in the competitive environment?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, I would say we really haven't in the spaces we are in. I think you got to remember about where GE Capital is. We are like deep in things like private label credit cards, midmarket lending, aircraft leasing. In the places where we are, sure we are going to have competitors. But I think we have pretty unique, scaled niches and that's -- it's -- we feel good about our dynamics.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Noelia, why don't we take one more question? We have been going for a while here.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BOA-ML: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. So the implication -- I think Jeff, you made the statement of the $25 billion still expected by year-end in cash. Does that imply that NBC is still on track to close by year-end? I am assuming there is some sort of dovetailing with EU approval.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, John, I hate to predict exactly when it's going to close just because we don't control it. But we don't see anything today that changes what we have said in the past.

So we have put that in as a marker; but again remember we don't control it, and so I want to respect the process.

JOHN INCH: Sure, I understand.

JEFF IMMELT: The $25 billion assumes it closes by year end. But what if it pushes out a little bit? We are still going to get that capital. We do believe this deal is going to close, and there is a timing question.

Right now our teams are working very constructively with both the DOJ and the FCC. We filed all of the information. We are in active dialogue. The formal clocks end sometime in November.

So we are going to work like crazy to get that closed by year-end, but that is tied to that assumption, obviously. Right?

JOHN INCH: And the delta is like what, about an $8 billion shift?

JEFF IMMELT: $8 billion, yes.

JOHN INCH: And then, Keith, the cash impact of Lake, is it materially different than what we see in terms of the chargeoffs per quarter? Like was it different than the $0.02? What is the trend there?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, there was no cash impact yet of Lake. But ultimately the amounts we pay above the $2.2 billion will be cash paid to Shinsei for the claims.

It is going to be dollar for dollar. The reserve amounts will be cash in Japan, and these are without any tax effect. So there is dollar for dollar on the reserve increases.

JOHN INCH: Okay. That makes sense. Just last question, more of a housekeeping. On the balance sheet I think the liabilities associated with businesses held for sale seemed to go up a lot sequentially; but it didn't look like the assets of the businesses held for sale were up that much.

Is there something meaningful there? I think it was about $4 billion of change.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, we completed the NBCU debt offering. If you remember in the quarter we borrowed -- we have $6 billion of term financing that we need to do before we close the deal. We did $4 billion of that in the second quarter. A very successful offering. So that is what that is.

JOHN INCH: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, everyone, for your time and questions today. Just to close out, the replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon, and I have a few housekeeping items to close out here.

First we will be distributing our quarterly supplemental data schedule for GE Capital later today. In the past we have issued this in conjunction with our 10-Q, so we wanted to get the data in your hands sooner.

Second, we have our analyst meeting at the Farnborough Air Show next week on July 20, and please visit our website for details there.

Third, we will be scheduling a GE Capital webcast for later this year. We have had several of our leaders including Mike Neal out at sell-side conferences, so we haven't done a webcast. But we will still be doing one later this year, so we will send out details once that is finalized.

Finally, our third-quarter 2010 earnings webcast will take place on Friday, October 15. And as always, JoAnna and I are here to take questions and go through anything you have. Thanks, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i3640048 : Aircraft Modification | iindstrls : Industrials | i364 : Aerospace Products/Parts | iaer : Aerospace/Defense | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c151 : Earnings | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | gtrans : Transport | ccpint : Competitive Intelligence | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | c184 : Joint Ventures | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | c41 : Management Issues | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100730e67g000jm
  


 HD
 Q1  2010  General Electric  Earnings Webcast - Final
   WC
13,778 words
   PD
16 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Noelia and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Noelia. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's first-quarter 2010 earnings webcast.

Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release this morning, and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor. We will have time for Q&A at the end.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks. Good morning, everyone. On the overview page, look, we think this was a good quarter. Our environment continues to improve. We saw some encouraging signs in places like revenue passenger miles and losses declining in GE Capital.

The business model is performing. We've got better margins and strong cash flow. And really most metrics in GE Capital improved in the quarter; Keith will go through that. The losses, delinquencies, and non-earning assets all declined.

We think the 2010 framework remains achievable, really with upside potential, based on how we are doing at GE Capital. We see earnings growth for the balance of 2010. And we might do more restructuring and financial asset sales to position us for the future.

We continue to invest in research and development and restructuring, and we really think this quarter is a pretty good testament to our ability to grow earnings and dividends in 2011 and beyond. So we feel really good about how we finished the quarter and where we are positioned.

We reviewed the next page several times vis-a-vis GE Capital and some of the critical metrics around Safe & Secure. Our long-term debt funding is in great shape. We have funded about $8 billion year-to-date. The funding costs are low, and we feel very, very good about how we are positioned here.

Our commercial paper is on track. Leverage particularly -- and Keith will go through the impact of FAS 167 -- is declining. Our capital structure is very strong. And the lower rate really just updates our goals on ending that investment. It factors in the impact of FASB 167, the impact of the GE Capital corporate, some of the FX pluses and minuses that change over time.

If you put in those factors, we stand at $516 billion today. We reduced $22 billion in the last quarter. And we're on track, I think, for a number that we used to talk about as being $400 billion -- of about $440 billion as we go through this, these changes.

So we're on track. We are actually ahead of plan there. You know, it boils down to about $20 billion or $25 billion reduction per year; and we feel like that is in great shape and we're making good progress towards those goals.

We had $17.1 billion in orders. The backlog is stable. Equipment is heading towards easier comps. Service really would have been flat except for a couple of one-time orders in Transportation last year.

We've got a strong pipeline of commitments. A lot of our new orders are coming from outside the United States, a strong pipeline of commitments.

There is a $1.2 billion Iraq order that has moved through their process. It's a solid commitment that will turn into an order in the second quarter. So that gives you a sense of some of the backlog that we've got on orders going forward.

Like I said, a lot of the orders are coming from outside the United States right now. The Tech Infra macro environment is improving, and we feel really good about the backlog, the visibility, and our position as we go through the remainder and balance of the year.

Margins were healthy in the quarter. We had expanding margins ex the Olympics. This gives you a sense of the dynamics.

Energy, Healthcare, Home & Business Solutions had good expansion. Our service margins across the Company expanded by 250 basis points. And NBC, because of the Olympics, was a drag on margins overall.

A lot of that is driven by a positive value gap. We are holding price in backlog. We are seeing positive new order pricing on the index and still getting deflation. And we think the value gap will continue into the future.

And then restructuring benefits continue to pay off. We saw about $500 million based on a lot of the work we have been doing in the last few years. And that will continue into the future.

We are investing more in research and development. We grew our R&D spend by 16% in the quarter. We're launching offshore wind, new healthcare products, energy-efficient products in Transportation and appliances. And again, a great pipeline of products as we go forward in the future.

Cash flow remains on track. We're on track for $14 billion to $15 billion(Sic-see presentation slides) for the year. Our cash flow from operating activities expanded greater than our net income plus depreciation. We think as we work through the year working capital improvements will offset declines in progress. That is what we did last year and we think we will do that again this year.

We've got $70 billion of cash on the balance sheet. More than $10 billion of cash on the parent -- cash at the parent. And as I said, we're on track for $13 billion to $15 billion of full-year cash flow from operating activities.

With that, I'll turn it over to Keith to go through how we did in the first quarter from a performance standpoint.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with just the consolidated results summary, as always. For the quarter, we had continuing operations revenues of $36.6 billion. They were down 5%.

Our Industrial sales at $23.5 billion were down 2%, a little less than the average because the Financial Services revenues were down more than -- at $13.2 billion, down 9% reflecting some of the dispositions we did last year plus the continued shrinkage that we have.

We earned $2.3 billion of net income, which was down 18%. And for earnings-per-share, we earned $0.21 a share, including the cost of the preferred dividend.

As Jeff just covered on cash, the total cash flow from operating activities was $2.6 billion. That is in line with our expectations and on track for our total-year estimate.

In terms of taxes, the consolidated rate for the first quarter is 15% for the Company. That is up from a negative 12% in 2009, since we don't have a repeat of last year's first-quarter decision where we agreed to permanently reinvest some prior-year earnings. That was a $700 million one-time benefit last year that doesn't repeat. Having that item not repeat pretty much explains all the tax variance for the whole Company first-quarter '10 versus first-quarter '09.

GE tax rate is basically the same as '09. We expect the GE rate for the full year to be in the mid to high 20%s, a bit lower than what we had in the first quarter. The GECS rate for the first quarter goes from a large positive rate in 2009 to a large negative rate in 2010. The negative GE Capital rate in '10 reflects the fact that we have a tax benefit or a credit which is larger than the pretax income amount. However, it is significantly lower than the credit that we had in the first-quarter '09, almost $800 million lower tax credit in GE Capital even with the $600 million of income we generated. So a big improvement.

On the right side are the segment results. Our Industrial businesses, ex media, had $2.9 billion of segment profit. You can see that is down 4% from last year, similar to our fourth-quarter results. I will cover more on each of these businesses in the next few pages, as always.

NBC Universal was down, driven by the Olympics. I will show you the impact of that. GE Capital earned $607 million, down 41%, but with positive pretax income, lower tax benefits, and a better credit profile, which I will describe in the next several pages.

Before I get into the business highlights, here is a summary of the first-quarter items that impacted our results. As you can see, the items are significantly less than we have had the past several quarters.

First, we did continue to do restructuring in the first quarter; and we had $0.02 of after-tax restructuring and other charges. We're investing in reducing our footprint, lowering our cost structure.

The major businesses where we had the restructuring, GE Capital had about $60 million of this. Home & Business Solutions had $32 million. Energy Infrastructure had $22 million. And Tech and NBC were less than $10 million each.

The balance was in corporate. We had some environmental projects that we funded. If you look at the biggest projects in the quarter, we had some business exits in non-core banking in GE Capital and some equipment leasing platforms in GE Capital. We also continued footprint reductions in Lighting and in Energy.

Our gains in the quarter were driven by really two things. We had a sale of the security business which closed in the quarter; contributed about $0.01. And we had a few other transactions. It was primarily a licensing and income Aviation transaction related to a service job in China; that was a little less than a $0.04.

Down in discontinued operations, as you know, in the third quarter of 2008 we sold our finance company in Japan to Shinsei. So since then we basically have an agreement where we share losses up to a certain amount. We had a $380 million reserve increase in the quarter on the Gray Zone liability for discontinued operations.

Basically we update our models every quarter. In the second quarter last year we added about $130 million to the reserves based on the claims we saw at the time. If you think about the economy in Japan, it's been very tough. In addition, there is recent and upcoming legislative and regulatory changes that are affecting Gray Zone claims in Japan. And we saw increases in our overall claims experience over the last several months.

As a result, we updated our models. We booked to a range of what we think might happen in the future. And we will keep you updated as we continue to monitor Gray Zone events going forward in Japan. But that is in discontinued operations.

I'm going to start with GE Capital. Mike Neal and the team, we think they had a very good quarter considering the environment we are dealing with, the tough comparisons to actions we took last year in the first quarter that don't repeat. Revenues at $12.3 billion were down 10% driven principally by the Penske disposition last year. We no longer consolidate that and get the revenue.

Segment profit of $607 million was down 41%; but we more than offset the impact of $750 million of one-time positives last year from tax credits and that Penske gain. We offset those one-time items with lower credit costs, higher core income, lower SG&A costs, and better margins. I will cover more of that by each of the businesses.

Assets of $617 billion were on a reported basis up 1%, but that includes the impact of consolidating $31 billion of assets from FAS 167. So really the business shrinkage offset that. And also $29 billion from foreign exchange translation year-over-year. So on an operating basis, the team shrunk GE Capital by over $53 billion over the last 12 months, with collections exceeding originations -- ahead of plan, as Jeff said.

If you look at some of the individual businesses on the bottom left, I will take you through pieces on each of those. First, the Consumer business earned $593 million in the quarter; that was down 20%. The US business had an excellent quarter. Tax credits were down $530 million year-over-year in Consumer; and those were mostly offset by lower credit losses of about $375 million, and $100 million of lower costs.

Our North American retail finance business earned $293 million, up 70%. That is driven by lower credit losses. Banking earned $183 million; that was basically flat -- it was down 2%.

Our UK home lending business earned $40 million in the first quarter, which is another positive sign. And we earned a little over $100 million in Australia in the Consumer business in the quarter.

Real Estate had a loss of $400 million(Sic-see presentation slides) in the quarter. While that is better than the $593 million of loss that we had last year in the fourth quarter, we're still in a very challenging environment. We had $137 million of after-tax credit losses on our debt book; and we had $387 million of after-tax margin impairments driven by our equity book.

We are seeing some signs that the expected continued valuation declines are abating. However, if you look at Real Estate, we expect this to remain under pressure for the foreseeable future.

Commercial -- the Commercial Lending and Leasing business had a good quarter. CLL earned $232 million; that was down 3%. But that is where we had last year's $285 million gain from the Penske transaction. So to be down only 3%, Dan Henson and his team almost overcame all of that with $139 million less negative margin impairments and $100 million growth in core income -- including, again, lower credit costs.

GECAS had another great quarter. Earnings of $317 million were up 21%, driven by higher core income and a few aircraft sales. We ended the quarter, again, with only three aircraft on the ground. So good credit quality and portfolio quality there.

Energy Financial Services also had a great quarter, driven by about $80 million of higher gains from the sale of some Marcellus Shale gas rights.

On the right side of the page, if you look at some of the dynamics, funding is in great shape, as Jeff showed you. Our spreads have come in significantly.

Our origination is strong. We completed over $7 billion of commercial volume in the quarter, at about a 3% return on investment.

We are really pleased with the pre-tax pre-provision improvement. You can see the numbers here. Overall, GE Capital Corp had $200 million of profit of positive pre-tax income overall, which is a great sign and a positive as we go forward.

Our credit losses are down from $2.9 billion in Q4 to $2.3 billion. That includes the impact of FAS 167, and coverage is at near all-time highs at 2.61%.

So you can tell we are feeling better about GE Capital. I am going to run through some of the detail pages on the impact of FAS 167 on our asset quality and our losses and expectations for losses.

As you all know, we adopted FAS 167 as of 1/1/2010. As a result of the accounting, we've consolidated the assets and nonrecourse liabilities from our off-book securitization entities. This page highlights the impact on our financial statements.

First, the balance sheet. As we've previously disclosed, we put $31 billion of assets on the balance sheet at 1/1. That was split about $18 billion of Commercial assets and $13 billion of Consumer assets. If you include the retained interest which was already on our books, the majority of these assets have gone into financing receivables. So we added about $40 billion to financing receivables.

And we added a line in the liabilities section of the balance sheet for the nonrecourse securitization debt. In addition, we added $1.7 billion to the receivable reserves as of 1/1; and I will show you how that impacted us by the end of the quarter.

The impact on our leverage and capital ratios was very small, as you can see in the measurements here. We gave you the details of these measurements in the supplemental schedules.

Our reserve coverage went up a small amount, reflecting the mix of Consumer assets. As we showed you in December at the GE Capital update, going forward from January 1 through the year, now we have the earnings from the higher on-book assets. That is going to be mostly offset by not having any more securitization gains. In 2009 on a comparable basis we had $1.2 billion of securitization gains; that will be zero in 2010.

So I will show you more on this in the reserve coverage page coming up. But it is pretty much exactly what we had previously disclosed on 167.

On portfolio quality, an update on delinquencies and non-earning assets that we give you every quarter. On the left side are the Commercial equipment finance delinquencies. 30-day-plus delinquencies for equipment are down 10 basis points from Q4 to Q1. It is driven by the Americas delinquency was down 18 basis points in the Americas; and for Europe and Asia the delinquencies were about flat.

Ex-167, Commercial non-earning assets declined $300 million in Q1 versus Q4. We had $700 million of declines in CLL at GECAS, offset by a $400 million increase in Real Estate. So we continue to see non-earnings go up in Real Estate, offset by non-earning declines across the rest of the commercial portfolio.

Real Estate delinquencies did go up 75 basis points in the quarter, a little under 5%. Non-earners were up $500 million including 167, as I said.

On the right side you can see the delinquency data for Consumer. In total delinquencies were down 13 basis points in the quarter. That was driven by a 43 basis point decline in North American Retail delinquencies. Mortgage delinquencies rose 23 basis point driven by an increase in our Australia and New Zealand portfolio. In ANZ we consolidated some call service centers during the fourth quarter and the first quarter, and we had some operational issues. I would say they are not really indicative of the portfolio itself. We continue to have mortgage insurance across the entire portfolio, and we believe the delinquency trend will level back off in Q2 when we get the call centers back in line.

The real positive in mortgages, though, comes in the UK. You can see the 30-day delinquencies declined 65 basis points in the quarter. We continue to realize net gains versus our marks on our foreclosed properties, which is a good sign.

Global Banking delinquencies were flat at 4.53%, pretty stable. And overall Consumer non-earnings were also down; they were down $400 million ex-FAS 167. And the overall percent of non-earnings declined by 19 basis points.

So pretty good signs of continued stabilization across a very broad portfolio of Commercial and Consumer receivables.

Next, an update on reserve coverage. Reserves ended the quarter at $9.5 billion and coverage increased to 2.61%. Here is where you do see some impact of the 167 consolidations. At the end of the quarter we had $1.5 billion of reserves that were associated with the newly consolidated receivables. $1.4 billion of that relates to Consumer, so you can get a feel for the mix.

We booked $2.3 billion of provision for losses in the quarter. That was flat with last year's Q1, but it was down $600 million from Q4.

Writeoffs in Q1 were $2.4 billion; and that leaves us with the $8 billion of reserves ex-167. So there is no release of reserves in the quarter. Our writeoffs were $100 million higher than the provision ex-167; and with 167 we're up to $9.5 billion of reserves.

If you look on the right side, the Commercial reserves are flat with a strong coverage ratio and lower delinquencies and non-earnings. Consumer reserves are down slightly but the coverage is up as we continue to shrink the Consumer book.

Both North American Retail and Global Mortgage are flat or improved on coverage. So having these reserves at these levels, 2.61%, approaching historic highs for total coverage for the Company.

Next, I will finish GE Capital's section with just another update on the sub-business dynamics. These are from the presentation that Mike Neal gave in December and then Jeff and I updated in January. Most of the outlook has not changed.

You can see that there's two places where we think the outlook has improved, based on what we see. That would be for our US Consumer and for our vertical businesses.

For Commercial Lending and Leasing, we continue to see improving portfolio quality metrics. In the first quarter, we had $500 million of losses. That is below last year's run rate. And we originated $700 million more volume than last year at good margins.

For the US Consumer we now have a few quarters of improving data. Our entry into losses at very low levels, historic low levels. Delinquencies are improving, and we continue to see the book decline a bit, which helps on losses overall.

Our losses in the quarter were $400 million, also very positive, well below last year's run rate. So that is one place where we think things have improved versus what we saw in December and January.

Global Banking remains stable. Losses are in line with our fourth-quarter view; not really a change there.

UK Mortgage continues to stabilize. I think we are getting continued positive trend data as the delinquencies have rolled over and started to decline. But you know, we still are cautious there. We want to continue to watch what happens with house prices and unemployment in the UK before we get a full recovery.

Verticals, I'd say this is another area where we think things have actually improved from our December and January outlook. GECAS and the Energy Financial Services business are both performing better in Q1 and the outlook remains positive. Even in the airline industry where we have some restructurings, we're managing those within our plan.

Commercial Real Estate remains tough. Although the pace of the valuation declines is moderating, as you see in the press, we still had $600 million of impairments in Q1. That would be above our original total-year estimate if that run rate continues.

Overall, though, if you think about the metrics around delinquencies, non-earnings, losses, reserve coverage, everything appears to be heading in a positive direction here for GE Capital.

One final point on Capital. Our historical practice is that we provide summary financial information for GE Capital Services -- or GECS -- when we announce the GE earnings; that is the summary [register we're on]. Starting today, we're also going to be providing that information for GE Capital Corp; and we are going to be filing an 8-K sometime today with more income statement and balance sheet details so you don't have to wait for the 10-Q for that information.

The other thing is now that GE Capital Finance equals GE Capital Corporation, things are just a lot simpler. You will see that in our reporting.

Next, I will shift from GE Capital, going to the other businesses. I will start with NBC.

If you look for the quarter, revenues of $4.3 billion were up were up 23% and segment profit of $199 million was down 49%. You can see over on the right side, if you adjust for the impact of the Vancouver Olympics, revenues were flat with last year and segment profit was up 1%.

Jeff Zucker and a team did a great job in the quarter. Dick Ebersol and his team did a great job with the Olympics. The ratings were up 14% versus Reno.

We had around $800 million of revenue. And as we said previously, we thought the loss would be somewhere around $250 million in the quarter. In the end, the sales were better. We had a loss in the quarter of $223 million on a 100% basis, or $194 million at the GE level.

In the quarter, Cable continued its leadership performance. Revenues of $1.2 billion were up 3% and segment profit was up 4%, led by entertainment. USA had its 15th straight quarter as number one. Bravo posted its 18th consecutive quarter of ratings growth. Oxygen had its highest ratings quarter ever.

And even on the cable news, the revenue and op profit was flat in the quarter, pretty good performance in this environment. CNBC complete continued its lead in business news.

And MSNBC had a few milestones. We beat CNN in prime for the quarter and total day for March.

If you go to Broadcast, revenues of $2 billion were up, driven by the Olympics; and the op profit was down, driven by the Olympics. The same reason as I said for the total business.

We're seeing some really good recovery and the ad market. Local ad market was up 10% in the fourth quarter. Local ad market was up 15% in the first quarter. Scatter is up over 20% on both the network and on cable, leading into the upfront. And that is a really good outlook as we go into the upfront.

You might have missed this. We did a lot of shuffling in the lineup in the first quarter. You may not realize it, but we are reprogramming at 10 p.m. Ratings are up 45%. And Jay Leno is back in late-night, and he regained his number-one position. So lots of progress heading into the mid-May upfronts here.

Film & Parks showed a lot of signs of improvement in the first quarter. Revenue was up 14, and op profit was flat. The box office results for the movies did fall short of our expectations; but that was partially offset by less second-quarter pre-promotion for movies.

DVDs had a good quarter. We had 5 million units, led by Couples Retreat. Parks also had a good quarter, highlighted by the opening of the Universal branded park in Singapore. We had slightly lower attendance overall in the two parks, but that was mostly offset by higher per-capita spending.

Our Digital continued to have some highlights. Hulu remains the number-two video site and it has had continued strong growth. We are working our way through the regulatory reviews for NBCU with the Comcast deal; and we're just going to continue to cooperate with the FCC and the Department of Justice.

The hearings in Congress have concluded and we are into the comment periods now. It is just a long, steady process and we will cooperate fully, as will Comcast.

So overall, Jeff Zucker and the team accomplished a lot this quarter. The Olympics gave us a great platform to revamp 10 p.m. and late-night, and the ad market outlook continues to improve.

Next is Tech Infrastructure. Here the headline results for John Rice and the team look more challenging than they really are, because we had some one-time items from last year that don't repeat. We covered those a lot last year in the first quarter, and I will cover it more in detail when I get to Aviation. But the reported numbers of revenue down 9% and segment profit down 18% are more like revenue down 6% and segment profit down 1% when you adjust just for the Aviation business transaction. So operationally, the businesses are clearly doing better than the headline numbers here.

If you look by business, I'll start with Aviation. First-quarter orders of $4.5 billion. They were down 12% year-over-year. Major equipment orders at $2.1 billion were down 21%.

We had $600 million of commercial orders and $1 billion of military orders. Military orders were down about 9%.

The backlog ended the quarter at $19.8 billion, flat with Q4 and down 9% from last year. Service orders were down 3%. Commercial spare parts orders were $19.3 million per day, which was reported down 11%; but if you adjust for the 2009 Aviall order which we also covered last year, they would be up about 1%. Military service orders were down about 8%.

So if you look in the first quarter last year, we did have two transactions. We sold the Times Microwave business and we had a gain in our ATI service business. This year in the first quarter we had a gain from a service licensing facility in China as I mentioned.

If you look, last year's gains were $362 million positive. This year's gain was $74 million positive. If you adjust for those, revenue would have been down 8%; segment profit would have been up 1% on an operating basis. So if you look at the results in the quarter on revenue and op profit, the impact of the lower volume, we had higher R&D spending. And that was more than offset by positive pricing and variable cost productivity if you take out the deals.

Healthcare. The Healthcare team had another strong quarter. Orders of $3.8 billion were up 5% and equipment orders were up 8%. Diagnostic imaging orders were up 10% in the quarter.

For total orders, EMEA was up 7%. It is broad global growth. Asia was up 20%; China was up 28%; India was up 54%.

The US was flat. We saw equipment orders down 2%, service orders up 3%. And US equipment orders definitely slowed from the 9% growth we saw in the fourth quarter. It looks like when you go back and look at the fourth quarter, some of that strength came from hospitals and budget timing that didn't carry into the first quarter as positive as we were expecting.

Still when you look at the quarter for the team, the revenue of $3.7 billion was up 5%. That was driven by the equipment revenue up 6% and service up 4%. Segment profit was up 20% -- 21% as the team delivered strong productivity and the volume more than offset the price pressure. We entered Q2 with a pretty good backlog, a healthy increase in the backlog.

Transportation. This business continues to be impacted by just a really tough environment. Orders of $936 million were flat. We had strong equipment orders, $440 million; those were up $290 million, driven by locomotive orders internationally.

We had one great order in South Africa, 100 locomotive kits that generated most of the positive on equipment. And that was offset by service orders. They were down from the lack of the comparable order to last year's $300 million China wind gearbox order. So flat overall on equipment versus service.

Revenues of $766 million were down 35%. That is driven by the equipment being down 50%. We shipped 79 locomotives this year in the quarter versus 183 last year. Service revenues were also down 20% because of the lower overall activity.

Segment profit of $115 million, that was down 47%. It is really just driven by the lower volume and higher NPI spending.

We are seeing signs of real pickup in our activity from the North American customers, which obviously will be positive as we reduce the slack in the system and all the parked locomotives.

So overall for the Tech Infra business we see some early signs of improvement in aviation traffic, rail freight traffic. And the normalized operating results are as we expected in the quarter.

Next is Energy. John Krenicki and the Energy team just had another great quarter. Revenues of $8.7 billion were down 5%. With strong margin expansion they delivered segment profit of $1.5 billion, up 12%. You can see the business results on the bottom left; both positive for Energy and Oil & Gas.

I'll cover Energy first. Energy orders of $6.2 billion; they were down 15% versus last year. As Jeff mentioned, we had $1.2 billion worth of orders from Iraq slip from Q1 into Q2. That would have led to orders being down 2%, the most positive improvement in the trend. Even though the trends continue to improve sequentially for Energy, that would have really changed the dynamics here.

So we are going to get that order in the second quarter. After the election it got caught up in some administrative processes; and that will be a very big positive for the quarter.

Thermal orders of $500 million. They were down 56%. We had orders for 10 gas turbines versus 18 last year. And the Iraq order was for an additional 25 gas turbines, so that is important for our backlog.

Wind orders of $1.2 billion; they were down 28%. We had orders for 494 wind turbines versus 724 last year.

A couple of positives on orders. Aero derivative orders were up 17% and Jenbacher orders were up 12%.

Order prices for thermal were down 1% and for wind they were up 6%.

Service orders in the business were down 5% driven by lower spare parts and tough comparisons, driven by a large Iraq service order last year that didn't repeat. Revenue down 7%, driven by the lower volume.

Thermal unit revenue was down 14%, really driven by lower balance of plant shipments. That is about $400 million of non-GE content that didn't repeat. So it is not a lot of margin that helps with the margin leverage that you see even though the revenue is down.

We shipped 41 gas turbines versus 42 last year. Wind units were down to 349 from 433 last year. Service revenues were flat.

So segment profit was up 12%. That is driven by a positive value gap. We had over $200 million of positive price in the Energy business and $100 million of deflation, which more than offset the impact of the lower volume.

Oil & Gas. Claudi Santiago and the Oil & Gas team had another strong quarter. Orders at $2 billion were up 8%. We continue to see very strong global demand. Equipment orders at $1.1 billion were up 1% and service orders at $900 million were up 19%, driven by our expansion of our long-term service contracts growth in countries like Nigeria, Malaysia, and Egypt.

Revenues of $1.6 billion were up 3% and the equipment revenue was down 2%. But service revenues were up 11%, driven by strong rotating parts overhaul and upgrades. And segment profit of $191 million was up 7%, also driven by the positive value gap. So another very strong quarter from the Energy team.

And finally, Charlene Begley and the Home & Business Solutions team had another strong quarter. Revenues of $1.9 billion were up 1%. Segment profit of $71 million was up 58%.

Lighting had a good quarter for us. It was driven by the restructuring benefits that we invested in last year and continue to invest in this year. We also had strong global demand and some positive price. Revenue was up 10%, and Lighting made about a third of the op profit in the quarter.

Appliance revenue was down 4%. Retail sales were about flat. Contract was down 16%. We continue to see a challenge in multifamily housing, but appliances earned the other two-thirds of the profit in the quarter.

If you look, we continue to launch new energy-efficient products to drive growth. We've got the LED side-by-side refrigerator for the second quarter and other E*Star refrigeration models are also being launched. E*Star is an interesting program.

It's a program that was put in place to incent manufacturers to develop energy-efficient products in the US. We continue to invest in building those products, and our net income was up over 2 times last year's Q1, driven by the E*Star credits. So overall a great performance for the Home & Business Solutions.

And with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. So, you know, we've been using a framework to describe how we look at the Company and how we view it going forward. I just wanted to give an update of the framework.

We talked about industrial earnings for the year being about flat. We think we are on track there. Good new products and service growth and lower costs, global expansion. There is still some excess capacity in certain sectors; but we feel pretty good about where we are positioned as the recovery continues.

Media we have as negative. We think our worst quarter is behind us with the Olympics. Cable continues to be strong. The ad markets, as Keith said, have real strength. Film remains challenged but we should see growth in NBCU through the balance of the year.

We had had GE Capital as flat in the framework. Clearly this is going to grow for the year. We are well positioned for upside. As Keith said, Commercial Real Estate is challenged, but valuation declines are moderating. And we think this will be now a positive for the year.

Corporate we have as flat. I think everything in corporate is as we expected. We may use this as an opportunity to position to do some more restructuring.

Cash between $13 billion and $15 billion. We think we are on track for that, with working capital improvements offsetting lower progress payments.

So we would view the 2010 framework as achievable with upside potential. The earnings growth for the remainder of 2010 will be there. So the Company will show earnings growth over that time period.

We may do more restructuring and financial asset sales and we look forward in the future. So -- but we feel good about the quarter and we feel good about the way the team performed in the quarter. We think the quarter says a lot of good things about the Company going forward.

The last page, from an investor standpoint in terms of how we manage the GE team. We have talked about two keys. One is an attractive financial profile as we come through the downturn of earnings going from '09 to '10, and then as we get the GE Capital snapback and recovery, good growth in '11 and '12.

And just the massive amount of financial flexibility we have from a cash standpoint, with $10 billion-plus on the balance sheet now. We should have about $25 billion by the end of 2010 if we complete the Comcast transaction. And then more cash available as time goes on.

So these are the ways that I manage the GE team. This is very important from an investor standpoint.

Then, so what do we know about these things from the first quarter? Let me just recap.

The GE Capital losses seem to have peaked, and Commercial Real Estate losses are manageable. I think that is an important investor key in terms of how you think about looking at the Company going forward.

I think that leads to the second point, is, earnings growth for GE should be positive for the balance of '10. The GE Capital rebound has begun, and the macro industrial indicators are improving.

So I just think we have turned the corner here. We are well positioned, and I think GE Capital's improvement gives us some spring in our step, and we feel good about that.

The combination of strong operations and dispositions are generating substantial cash at GE. Again, this is not something -- this is just happening. You don't -- this is just happening as we speak and this will continue to accumulate through the year.

We have choices. I think we have already said that we want to grow the dividend in line with earnings in 2011. The potential remains for a redemption of the preferred stock. We've got opportunities for buyback as time goes on.

We always review strategic acquisitions. And we will always keep GE Capital safe and secure. So we just have tremendous cash optionality for the rest of the year.

So I leave you this quarter just with this vision of the Company, of an attractive financial profile with lots of financial flexibility. And I think the first quarter just demonstrates that we are well on the way to this kind of performance in the future.

So with that, Trevor, I will turn it over to you and we will take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith. Noelia, we are ready to open the lines for questions now.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Chris Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. A question on industrial orders outlook, excluding the Iraq movement into the second quarter. What is your outlook there? Do you think 1Q looks like a low here, on the equipment side in particular?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Chris, that -- again Iraq is a substantial order. Healthcare looks pretty good. We think the Aviation cycle --similar to what you hear from other people -- improves as we go through the year. Energy, we always track commitments into orders. I think the aero derivatives and Jenbacher tend to be leading indicators of customer interest from an energy standpoint.

Transportation -- there was probably 5,000 locomotives parked at the end of last year. There's more like 4,000 parked now. We have got lots of global demand there.

You basically haven't seen any impact of stimulus in the Company. A lot of the Smart Grid orders were pushed from first quarter to second quarter just because there was some confusion around the tax payments. So I think those are yet to be had.

So I just think the profile for the balance of the year is going to be pretty positive.

KEITH SHERIN: I think if you look at the pace of change on orders going back through the last several quarters, Chris, you can see. The second quarter last year was down 42% on equipment. Third quarter last year was down 32%. Fourth quarter was down 14%. This year we were down 10%.

We would we flat if we had the Iraq order in there. So I think the pace and the comparisons support continued gradual improvement.

And as you know, they are lumpy. We're going to have some big orders that drop into different periods, but I think overall the trend is continuing.

CHRIS GLYNN: Okay. Then just looking at the cash on hand, the improvements at Capital and some of the commentary just to my prior question, anything that could cause dividend increase to be pulled forward into 2010?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Chris, I just can't comment on stuff like that. I think we have a strong intent to create financial flexibility. We've got good optionality. We've got a set of priorities as a management team and as a Board in terms of how we look at it.

I think what Keith said in February is there is a dividend increase in your future; and I will just leave it at that.

CHRIS GLYNN: Understood. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning, guys. Can you maybe, Keith, give us a little bit more sense of what is going on at Shinsei Bank? I guess the confidence that you have fenced in these losses with the charge that you took.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think as you know, we closed this in the third quarter of '08 and we have in the loss agreement with Shinsei -- but the economy has been terrible. And there have been a lot of different changes in the legislation and the regulatory environment.

For example, in the legislation, lenders in the consumer finance space are no longer going to be allowed to give loans to people who have greater than 30% debt to income. And that will go into effect in the end of June of 2010. Now, that has been known for about 18 months, but that is getting very close.

Is that increasing claims disproportionately? We don't know.

There have been some changes from a regulator perspective where customers who file a Gray Zone claim are no longer flagged in the credit bureau system. So that -- did that change the behavior of claims?

So we have seen a pickup in the last several months in terms of the overall claims severity. The number of claims have gone down. The average amount per claim is higher than what was in our model. And it is volatile.

So what I would say is we update that model every quarter. We have done a lot of work on what do we see as claim trends, what could the liability be, what is the sharing with Shinsei, what's left. And we added $380 million to the reserve this quarter.

A couple of points. Number one, we still have not used up the amount that we established for the potential liability when we formed this transaction with Shinsei. So there is an amount left from the original deal that is still there. In addition to that we have booked up $500 million of additional provisions between the second-quarter last year and the amount we did here in the first quarter.

So our book is a little different than competitors. We are no longer -- we cap everybody in the book at 18%. We have not been doing Gray Zone since June of last year. We are in runoff mode. We reduced and blocked a lot of the accounts from even getting additional loans.

So I think what I can say is there has been volatility. It is higher than what we thought. We booked an amount that we think is consistent with what we think the liability will be. But we have got to watch what happens over the next several months.

SCOTT DAVIS: That makes sense. As a follow-up just on the cash balances you guys have been building, are you still anticipating the need to put $2 billion of cash into GE Capital in 2011? Or is that something that maybe given your experience is looking a little bit less necessary?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think we originally had that estimate when we were looking at the December outlook for Capital around $2 billion. I think if you look at the way the math works on the income maintenance agreement it should be less than that today if things continue.

If you look at the first-quarter interest, fixed charges were somewhere around $4 billion, right? So 10% of that is $400 million.

In the quarter, GE Capital made $200 million of pre-tax earnings. So if you just did it on a quarterly basis the payment for the first quarter would be $200 million.

I don't know how to -- what will happen annually from a pretax and from an interest, but gives you an order of magnitude if everything just was straight-line, what it would be.

So we think it's going to be less than the $2 billion, but we have to see what happens with the rest of the year and whether we have additional restructuring. But right now that outlook looks positive.

SCOTT DAVIS: No, it makes sense. Then just lastly, I want to talk about just asset sales. I mean I think at one point or another you talked about selling private label credit cards a couple years ago. And now there seems to be a liquid market out there again. Is this something that you are reconsidering?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, not specifically. I think what we try to do is create a path to $440 billion of E&I that really doesn't require any special dispositions. It's 100% in our control. So that's the way we look at it right now.

Then I think we just have to see how these businesses perform, how the capital markets look over the next year or so, and make strategic decisions accordingly. That business has done extremely well. The whole competitive dynamics are different than they were a couple years ago.

Nonetheless, I think we're really focused on creating this great specialty finance GE Capital business that is going to be high margin into the future. So $440 billion is in our control and it doesn't really require any big dispositions at all.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. First question is on net charge-offs and provisions. Net charge-offs as you pointed out were higher if you exclude -- well, higher than provisions by about $150 million or so. So the reserve release if you exclude FAS 167 did take place, even if you don't round it. I mean, it was small but it was still a reserve release.

KEITH SHERIN: Actually, it wasn't a reserve release. Provisions were a certain amount and losses were an amount 100 higher than that. So it is not a reserve release when you actually use it to write off losses, Steven.

STEVEN WINOKER: Excluding the FAS 167, right?

KEITH SHERIN: I'm doing $8.1 billion to $8 billion. Excluding FAS 167 we actually had a provision of $1.9 billion ex-FAS 167. And we had a little higher than that in terms of writeoffs. So it's a writeoff; it is not a reserve release. We actually wrote off an asset.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, okay. Fair enough. Then going forward that leads to a follow-up question on the same point. Which is, okay, so then if you think about timing versus your expectations, how are you thinking about getting to a point in the current environment where you might be able to then talk about reserve releases that are more substantive and aggressive?

KEITH SHERIN: I think you have got to think through the cycle. You ended up with delinquencies rising. As delinquencies rose you posted more reserves. I think writeoffs will lag the posting of the reserves as you end up dealing with and resolving accounts that related to those delinquencies that became part of your reason for putting up a reserve.

I don't have a quarter though where I'd pick the timing. I think if you just looked at the rest of this year, if you look at the quarter, we booked $2.3 billion of provision. If we kept the provision roughly around that amount and we kept writeoffs around that amount, you would end the year with $8 billion of reserves. But you would have substantially less provisions for the remainder of the year than you had last year.

And I think that's a positive. I don't think -- I think eventually you're going to have a point where you're not going to have even to need those reserves that you have, where writeoffs will be less than the provision you put up. But we're a little too early to call that today, I would say.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. A quick question, back on the Lake issue on Shinsei. You mentioned a ceiling in that. Can you give us a sense for, given the trajectory there, what ceiling is agreed between parties here should Japan not get better?

KEITH SHERIN: I didn't mention a ceiling, I don't think. I don't think there is a ceiling. I think this is a thing that we have an agreement with Shinsei where we will be responsible for that liability.

I think that whatever the ultimate amount is, even if you say it is worse than what we posted this year, I think it will be manageable for us.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, but you're lockstepped with them however, wherever, it goes?

KEITH SHERIN: Absolutely.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then on the corporate items side, I think it was around something like 25% to 30% down year-on-year. Could you just give us a sense? Is it restructuring, pension, cost reduction, how to think of --?

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers) I'm not sure what line we're on.

STEVEN WINOKER: Corporate items on the Industrial side.

KEITH SHERIN: On Industrial, we have less restructuring offset partially by higher pension.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, so --

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, pension is up about $200 million. We did about $0.03 of restructuring in the Industrial corporate last year; we did about $0.01 this year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: And the security gain is in there as well.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. Then finally last question just on the M&A pipeline, Jeff. When you talk about the flexibility that you have in that last slide, and we have talked previously about thinking about dilution that is going to be created from NBCU, etc., how are you thinking about that pipeline and the most likely segment still in terms of where you are hoping to really make some -- close something significant over the next couple of years?

JEFF IMMELT: I think when you look at the Infrastructure portfolio today, we all have businesses that we can invest in and like growing. Again as I have said earlier, we like bolt-on acquisitions that are financially attractive where we have leadership teams that can step in and run those acquisitions, working with our partners. So that's the way I would look at it.

We've got a decent pipeline out there. But look, I think we've got lots of options. The redemption of the preferred stock; the buyback potential.

So you know, the way I would look at our financial picture is that it's pretty strong. And with GE Capital's earnings rebounding that is quite positive. So we just have lots of options on this last page in terms of the things we can do and still grow earnings and still have lots of cash.

STEVEN WINOKER: Jeff, just to put that a little further, are you saying -- are you prioritizing that comment therefore around --?

JEFF IMMELT: Not necessarily. Again, I think we just want to do what is in the strategic best interest for the Company going forward. But I just think the good news is we have got lots of ways to create shareholder value.

STEVEN WINOKER: All right. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Vertical Research Partners.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, VERTICAL RESEARCH PARTNERS: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a couple more things on capital and how to think about reserve release. Obviously, whether it was founded or unfounded, you guys took some criticism on the way up as losses were mounting, that provisioning and allowances were low. And the argument was the accounting made it all formulaic and the provisions would come up as the losses came up.

Therefore, I am wondering how formulaic it is on the way down. And if in fact you could give us kind of the roadmap that we should be thinking about, whether it's the level of writeoffs, the trend in delinquencies, a certain ratio of provisions to losses, or something that -- for those of us on the outside looking in can try to get some kind of roadmap of how to think about this inflection point.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think there's a couple of ways to think about it. If you actually look at the financial statements and you look at what we booked as the reserve for losses last year each quarter, and you look at what we booked this year in the quarter, and you compare that going forward, you can get a pretty good feel for how you think if nothing else changed and we kind of had a normal first quarter, and you continued at that level, what would be the impact.

We booked $2.3 billion of provisions in the first quarter. That was flat with last year's first quarter, but it was down $600 million from the fourth quarter. If you continue at $2.3 billion and you compare that to what we booked last year in the second, third, and fourth quarter you are going to be booking less provision.

I think another way to look at it is we made $600 million in the first quarter, GE Capital. I think it's a pretty clean quarter. I think if you annualize that, we may made $1.7 billion in GE Capital Corp last year in the total year. And if you annualize from $600 million, you're above that. And that is another way to think about it.

So I think yes, the reserves that we're going to post and the writeoffs that we are going to have are going to be formulaic based on the quality of the book. I think the uncertain area is probably Real Estate. You look, the losses and impairments are higher than our run rate last year a little bit, in first quarter. But you see some other signs there.

So again, that just gives us uncertainty. But if you look across the rest of the book around delinquencies, non-earning assets, and the provisions that we have had to provide I think those are two pretty good ways to look at it, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, thanks. Then on environmental, those are the -- always kind of rise to the surface, but it kind of popped up a little bit more than normal in Q4 I think; and we are hearing it again today in Q1. Do you guys have your arms around what we should expect there for the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, I think -- environmental in Q1 is less than $50 million. I don't think it was a substantial number at all. We've got -- I don't see environmental in the year being a material item here that we would think we have to do anything special on.

I think the one big project obviously you watch is the Hudson. We think we have provided for what we think we need to do based on where we are with that. And we will watch how that develops over the year.

But I don't think there are other any other individual projects or anything that would rise to a discussion level.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then just also on GE Capital tax, I don't think I totally followed you when you were going through just the whole description of the puts and takes. Was there --? Clearly we had the year-ago comp issue.

But was there something in the going-forward on credits that you mentioned? I heard an $800 million number.

KEITH SHERIN: $800 million is the amount of basically lower tax credits at GE Capital year-over-year, first quarter to first quarter last year.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, so that is just the comp? Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: $800 million, if you look just off the income statement. And basically the $700 million one-time tax benefits we had last year in the first quarter, if you remember last year that was offset by estimates where you true up for the total year rate at GE Capital and GE. Well, even if you adjust for those this year in the first quarter, we continue to have some of those -- you are $700 million higher taxes year-over-year in the first quarter of 2010 versus 2009 (multiple speakers) consolidated Company.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Finally can you give a little more color on price? You did, Jeff, indicate that [points] talk about positive value gap. It sounds like price is down a little bit in gas turbines, up in wind. How about across the rest of the portfolio?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, if you look at the -- what's in backlog, right? You've got positive price in backlog.

And then the new order -- what we call the new order pricing index in Q1 was also positive. So I think that's a good sign.

And deflation continues to be pretty strong. So again I think this is something that we watch, the value gap, very closely. And I think we feel pretty good about it.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Sorry, maybe I am just making this too simplified and I hate to beat the dead horse here on the reserves. But if provisions are lower than writeoffs, isn't that a release in the reserves?

KEITH SHERIN: No, it meant that you actually wrote off some asset account but didn't release any reserves. I actually took assets down by writing off an account.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. So it's -- I see. So it's just not that simple as looking at your total writeoff number versus what your provision is. (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the amount went down; but it's because I actually -- you could -- whether you call it a cleanup or whatever, the writeoffs in the quarter were $2.4 billion; and the provisions were $2.3 billion. So I actually stepped into and -- whatever you want to call it -- I finalized the writeoff on certain credit accounts that were on my books. I didn't release any reserves here.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. So I guess going forward --

KEITH SHERIN: I think you are going to see that phenomenon. I think it is not a reserve release when you actually have writeoffs above the provision. We actually booked $2.3 billion of provision. We didn't reserve -- release any reserves.

STEVE TUSA: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know how to be clearer on it.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. So going forward, that trend in writeoffs, is that --? Is the $2.4 billion, given the leading indicators, kind of a -- is that what you are referring to as a peak number? Are we going to go through a couple more quarters here where you have this whatever it is, a headline or reported kind of mismatch in that number?

Because over the last couple quarters you guys have -- clearly the provisions have been much, much higher than the writeoffs. So how do you look at that $2.4 billion going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the more important number is what is the provision going to be, Steve. I think the change in writeoffs is going to be what affects the net reserve balance that is left. But I think the provision number is what I talked about as the being the thing that we think you really should be watching.

I think writeoffs have lagged provisions, as you said. And just theoretically they should be above provisions as you come out of the credit cycle.

So I think the more important number is that provision. If we are flat at $2.3 billion you can look at what that will do in terms of benefits versus the rest of the year.

STEVE TUSA: Right, okay. On Real Estate, you wrote down I think you said $600 million in assets. What is the -- is there any change in the ending unrealized loss? I think it was $7 billion at the end of the year. Is there any change in that at the end of (multiple speakers)?

KEITH SHERIN: Right, that was -- I don't have an update that in the quarter. We will update that in the second quarter and give you that during the second quarter. I do not have an update on that right now.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then, Jeff --

KEITH SHERIN: There was a lot of depreciation, and a lot of those writeoffs do eat into that. I don't know what the net number will be after you get done with that analysis though.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Then, Jeff, that's a lot of questions around capital allocation. First of all, is EPG too early for you guys to get a little more specific on your priorities? I think it is obviously a big question out there, and you guys have talked about at a high level all the various options.

Do you have enough visibility on the year-end cash to get a little more specific at EPG?

And then with regards to the dividend, would you reinstate the GE Capital dividend prior to doing -- to raising the dividend at Industrial? Or is that kind of all in one fell swoop?

JEFF IMMELT: The first thing, Steve, is I would say that the timing on the NBCU transaction isn't in our control. Things seem to be moving in an orderly way, but that's a little bit out of our control.

But beyond that I would say EPG is a good time for us to give a pretty good vision for how we view capital allocation going forward. So I do think that is a good thing, a good subject for that meeting and how we are thinking about it.

On the GE Capital dividend, look, I think the GE dividend can grow independent of the GE Capital dividend. But it is a high priority of Keith and mine and the management team to restore the GE Capital dividend in a timely fashion. But the GE dividend I view as being independent of that.

KEITH SHERIN: You know, the comments that we made previously about growing the dividend in '11 don't assume that we grow the GE Capital dividend, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: Right, okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BOA-ML: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Hi, guys.

Hey, Keith, I think at the December 8 meeting, you called out prospective provisions in 2010 of $11 billion to $12 billion. If you annualize the $2.3 billion you get $9 billion. So doesn't that theoretically suggest in terms of just pure EPS that 2010 could be somewhere between $0.10 to $0.20 above last year just on that basis?

KEITH SHERIN: I think we have two categories here, losses and impairments.

JOHN INCH: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: And you also have the FAS 167, which we added those receivables and that will result in higher losses. So what we said in December was that the base case of around $12 billion on losses and impairments, another $1.5 billion for the 167.

If you look in the first quarter, the actuals on that same basis were $3 billion. So if you annualized that to $12 billion versus $13.5 billion, I think it's a little less than what you said; but it's directionally correct.

JOHN INCH: Okay. I also -- just as a follow-up to that. What about the tax credits? You identified that they had come down that much. I'm assuming these trends are likely to sequentially prevail, even though there is a little bit of seasonality.

Does this suggest, given how much they were down, that we could be looking at a tax expense in 2011? Or what are the puts and takes there, for Capital specifically?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, I think actually the first-quarter GE Capital tax credits are pretty representative of what the structural benefits are for GE Capital. If the current legislation -- first of all, the subpart of it has to get reenacted, which we believe it will. But if that legislation and that framework stays in place, the tax credit that you see in GE Capital in the first quarter are pretty representative of our run rates on a quarterly basis, John.

So what will change is, as we have additional pretax income -- and you can see the increases in pretax income -- those will get tax provisions against them of whatever the incremental rates are in the 30% to 35%. You would have to have several billion dollars increase in pretax income to start to offset those tax credits on a quarterly basis.

You know, $1.5 billion of pretax would offset kind of the tax credit from the first quarter. Then you would have zero as a rate.

So I think the structural benefits in the first quarter are pretty representative of what you are going to see going forward if the legislation stays in place. And then as we have higher pretax income, the tax rate will rise in GE Capital.

JOHN INCH: But it sounds like it could still be headed for a net tax credit in 2011 based on your comments. Is that the implication?

KEITH SHERIN: It depends upon what pretax is in 2011. I think the tax credits that you see on a quarterly basis, you can say that is structurally what we expect in 2011 (multiple speakers) what happens to pretax.

JOHN INCH: Okay, that makes sense. Then I want to go back to the corporate line question. I think the $295 million that you did in the corporate items and eliminations line was down pretty substantially from the run rate. But then the corporate line in GE Capital was actually up a lot year-over-year.

So has there been some sort of reallocation between the two buckets? Maybe you could just give us a little bit about of a walk of what -- why is it only $295 million? And is that actually a run rate on a quarterly basis for that line item specifically?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, $295 million for the corporate items and eliminations in the schedules, that is less restructuring offset by more pension, basically. That is why you are down 100 year-over-year.

On the Capital side, if you look, we had a Capital Finance equals GECC now; so some of the things that were in Cap Corp previously are probably in what we call GE Capital today, Capital Finance. That may be what you are looking at.

I think in the quarter we had restructuring in Capital Corp, about a penny. We had some marks and impairments in the Treasury group. And then we have about ongoing $100 million of ongoing costs associated with running the operation, the overhead and the facilities and global functions.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Does GE have an Industrial business?

KEITH SHERIN: Hey, good morning, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Continuing in the line, though, the reserves of the [center] financing receivables were 2.51. You know, where can that ratio bottom?

Historically you guys kept it at 2.62, whatever; and the SEC mandated you move that reserve around relative to the [loss count] and the portfolio, so forth and so on. Is that what you expect to happen going forward over the next couple of years, is that reserve level will drop back to where it had been in the trough in the last decade?

KEITH SHERIN: Look, the reserve levels will follow the quality in the portfolio. As delinquencies and non-earnings roll over and decline, your reserve levels are going to decline. It's a pretty straightforward relationship, I would say.

BOB CORNELL: You didn't comment -- I think you referenced the net interest margin but didn't specifically allude to it. What happened at net interest margin?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have a specific number on net interest margin in the quarter.

BOB CORNELL: Well, you guys gave a chart a quarter ago talking about how the net -- bottom -- margin (multiple speakers) was starting to rise.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I haven't changed the estimate for the year. I think -- I don't have it updated on a quarterly basis. We said last year it was about 4.6 for the portfolio; going to 5 this year. I think that is still true.

The business is still around 3 ROI. But I don't have that updated on a quarter, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Yes. No, you guys have been over this. So the total provision is $2.3 billion. How much of that provision was the Commercial Real Estate book and how much was everything else? It was $400 million for Commercial Real Estate? Did I hear that right?

KEITH SHERIN: In the quarter, in the provision itself, it's about $200 million. The rest was in impairments not in the loss reserves for (multiple speakers).

BOB CORNELL: And the impairment was how much in the quarter? Did you say $600 million?

KEITH SHERIN: Pretax, yes.

BOB CORNELL: Pretax?

KEITH SHERIN: $600 million pretax, about $0.04 after-tax.

BOB CORNELL: So just looking at the provision, is it fair to imagine that the provision ex-Commercial Real Estate comes down from here and that the Commercial Real Estate tracks with -- that end market goes up a bit? How should we think of -- if you were to disaggregate those two numbers what should we expect?

KEITH SHERIN: I would say that a way to think about it maybe is the debt book in the Commercial Real Estate business is in the financing receivables and will be included in the loss provision results.

Our debt book today, with a lot of it at around 100% loan-to-value, is almost mark-to-market. So depending upon Commercial Real Estate values change on the debt book, that will show up in the loss provision.

On the equity book, it's a longer-term view. It is what our rent is going to do over time; what will happen to occupancy; how do we feel about leaseup and releasing properties. We do a pretty big review of that twice a year. We do a quarterly review of any troubled properties every quarter.

So I think in there we had $600 million pretax of impairments in the first quarter. I don't know if that is a run rate, Bob. We have to see what happens to all those dynamics. That has got a little more volatility in it.

I would say that on the other side, on the debt side, across the portfolio -- boy, as delinquencies have come down and non-earnings have come down, I think you're going to continue to see that positive -- the provision will follow that positively, including the debt book on Real Estate.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning. Keith, start with Technology Infrastructure margins, which were much stronger than what we were looking for in the quarter. Typically you build from here throughout the year. But I'm just wondering if you might comment on that profile that you are seeing.

KEITH SHERIN: In Technology Infrastructure? I think you are seeing the strength here is obviously the Healthcare business with good earnings leverage. We expect them to continue to have a pretty good year as you go through the year.

I think Aviation actually in the quarter gave us pressure, obviously. If you ex out those deals, the Aviation equipment versus services dynamic should be okay through the rest of the year.

Transportation I think is just having a really tough time on equipment. But the service business again has continued to be profitable. So I think ex the deals would be a pretty good way to look at Tech Infra as you look forward for 2Q, 3Q, 4Q.

TERRY DARLING: You would expect that normal kind of build throughout the year, Keith, to play out?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know what the build is. I said ex the deals I think the quarter is pretty representative of the way I feel that the businesses should be performing as we go through the rest of the year.

We've got the benefit of the spare parts price increase. Our spares orders are pretty good. The service versus equipment mix is remaining positive, slightly positive in the quarter; and that should continue through the year.

TERRY DARLING: I think you have mentioned a gain on sale of some planes in GECAS. Can you just call out that number for us if you have it?

KEITH SHERIN: It was less than $50 million. I don't know what it was.

TERRY DARLING: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: $20 million I have been told.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then coming back to the order outlook commentary, I'm wondering if you can just fine-tune a comment on the orders for the service side of the business. Do you see that as picking up over the balance of the year? Or is that something we should expect to continue to be in a little bit of a downtrend for a while?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't remember what big one-time orders we had in 2Q through 4Q last year. I think I would expect them to be closer to flat as we go through the rest of the year as a more normal operating indicator.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then lastly, a lot of companies talking about in the financials world normalized earnings power. I am wondering with the trends getting better if you can talk a little bit about that.

You've given obviously the $440 billion. You've talked about where you see the loss cycle going out to '12. Maybe refine your thinking on ROA and tax maybe, to just sort of finish the penciling out exercise for us there.

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Terry, I think we have kind of set a 2 ROI target for the business, and so it is just arithmetic as you go through that. Then the reserves go where they go; and how long that takes is how long it takes. But our focus is on having a good, high-margin specialty finance business.

TERRY DARLING: Tax is still kind of a wild card?

JEFF IMMELT: And tax is -- I think what Keith answered earlier is the right answer.

KEITH SHERIN: Structural credits, $1.5 billion to $2 billion in the current tax legislative regime. And on top of that, pretax income generating positive tax provisions.

TERRY DARLING: On that regulatory regime, any new thoughts on potential change or lack thereof?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't -- Terry, we are all kind of watching it at the same time you guys are. We will see what happens.

KEITH SHERIN: The big structural positives are all in place. Obviously, the grandfathering of GE's ownership of GE Capital; the fact that we keep the banks. I think that when you look at the consumer protection it doesn't really affect us that much.

We are prepared for a different regulator. We think we are systemically important, and we are prepared for the Fed to be our regulator if that is the case.

I think the teams have done a pretty good job preparing for all that. The details, as Jeff said, we're going to have to see how they work out. But the big structural things we feel really good about.

TERRY DARLING: Thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: There are no further questions in the queue. Mr. Schauenberg, do you have additional remarks?

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thank you, everyone, for joining our webcast today. The replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon.

Our second-quarter 2010 earnings webcast will take place on Friday, July 16. And as always JoAnna and I will be available all day today to take your questions. Thank you, everyone.

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes your conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | c151 : Earnings | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | gvtrn : Transportation Department | ereal : Real Estate Markets | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e21 : Government Finance | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | lith : Lithuania | baltst : Baltic States | devgcoz : Emerging Market Countries | dvpcoz : Developing Economies | eecz : European Union Countries | eeurz : Central/Eastern Europe | eurz : Europe | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100430e64g000dy
  


 HD
 Q4  2009  General Electric  Earnings Webcast - Final
   WC
15,437 words
   PD
22 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good today, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Noelia and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP OF IR, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Noelia. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. Slides are also available for downloading and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor. We'll have time for Q&A at the end.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks and good morning, everyone. On the first page, which is the overview page, I would make just a couple points that will tee up our presentation for the quarter.

First, the GE environment has improved. We've seen orders strengthening, service orders grew by 14%. Our delinquencies have stabilized, non earnings are down so the world we look at really has improved and we're looking forward now into 2010.

The GE business model has performed in the fourth quarter. The things we've talked about in the past in terms of how we are running the Company I think really did achieve and perform on plan in the fourth quarter. Services grew nicely. Our margins and cash flow performance were very strong. We won a lot of the big global orders and the capital finance metrics are either at plan or better than plan as we end of the year.

The 2010 framework we talked about in December is achievable and balanced we think. The outlook for Capital Finance is improving. We've got high visibility in our backlog and margins and again our service revenue is very strong. We've done a substantial amount of restructuring over the past few years and a lot of those benefits will carry over into 2010 and beyond. So we think that really gives us a real sense that the 2010 framework is very solid.

We are positioned for growth in 2011 and beyond. We think that losses in Capital Finance will stabilize in 2010 and start to decline. The infrastructure visibility again is very high and by the end of 2010 and during the year, we should have $25 billion of cash at the GE parent that we can use to keep the Company safe and secure and also have ample opportunities to create shareholder value.

And we've just taken a lot of strong actions to position the Company for the future. The portfolio is simpler and stronger. Our R&D investments increased in 2009 so we have lots of new products. We are very well positioned globally, so I think we accomplished a lot in the quarter and feel pretty good about how we finished the year.

On the next page, just some results versus the December outlook meeting. I'm not going to go through all of these but on the left-hand side, here are some of the key things we talked about in December versus how we finished and we are at or above plan -- or at or above outlook on virtually all the metrics. There are some encouraging signs, orders strengthening, service is very strong. We are able to do more restructuring in the fourth quarter than we originally thought. Cash and margin levels at near -- margin performance at near record levels, losses stabilizing, and high margins on new lending, and there's still some cautious areas.

We're still very cautious about commercial real estate and there is excess capacity, high unemployment, so we are cautious about certain areas, but as we finished the year, we did see some encouraging signs.

Now, there are four areas of execution that we have talked about as we went through 2009 in a very difficult economy and I want to recap each one of those. The first one is the focus on keeping GE Capital safe and secure and really we are ahead of plan on virtually all the metrics that we've talked about. We are fully funded for 2010 and we've done $4.4 billion of funding in 2011 at attractive spreads. So we feel great about our funding performance.

Our commercial paper is below $50 billion. We are again ahead of plan there. Our leverage reduced in the quarter and again ahead of plan there. Our common -- tier 1 common ratio continues to improve. We have lots of GECS equity. We are very strong and getting stronger in terms of balance sheet strength and our (inaudible) investment is ahead of plan at $472 billion. So really strong execution by the GE Capital team.

From an orders standpoint and the slow economy, very important to get the orders that are out there. We saw a good bump quarter over quarter, a $3.7 billion improvement quarter over quarter. Our total orders were only down 3% versus the fourth quarter of last year, which was still a pretty good quarter for the Company.

From an equipment standpoint, we are seeing a pretty good bounce back as we went through 2009 and we think equipment orders should be positive for the year of 2010 versus 2009. Services were very strong. I mean, a 14% service fee was as good as any quarterly service fee we had even pre-crisis, so we feel great about how our services are positioned.

Our backlog is at record levels. A lot of that is driven by service, but again at or ahead of plan. And we won a lot of the big deals. Our Oil & Gas business won a lot of the big global deals in Australia. Healthcare, we really saw good strength across all geographies. About 60% of our orders are global. It's a very diverse global framework. Subiya from Kuwait, Australia, India, you really go across the board and we saw pretty good order strength in the fourth quarter. We are increasing our backlog going into 2009 -- going into 2010.

The third area of execution was on margins and what we did here is we broke out our infrastructure and Consumer & Industrial margins and then total Industrial, which includes NBCU. We did that really for two reasons. One is that our focus going forward is going to be Infrastructure and C&I with the Comcast -- announced Comcast deal. And the second one is just the Olympics tend to distort what we are doing. And I think what you see here is very good margin accretion both in the fourth quarter, total year, and also in Infrastructure and C&I, we see margins improving again in 2010.

The basic is we've got the dynamics of margin enhancement really are working and really are repeatable and I will just recap those. We've done lots of restructuring. It has enabled us to really take lots of structure out of the Company. We've closed more than 400 facilities. Our headcount is down and these benefits will carry over into 2010 and beyond.

The second point is that our services are growing faster than equipment, which has a nice mix impact. At the same time, the margin in our service business is also improving. So that's really a double tailwind, if you will. Our contribution margins have grown and are growing. Our pricing is reasonably stable and deflation is accelerating, so that adds to our value gap improving in 2010.

We have had disciplined execution around discretionary costs. Our indirects are down 16% and so those are the things that have helped our margins expand. At the same time, we've continue to invest in R&D. Our R&D investment grew 7% in 2009. It is planned to grow 15% to 20% in 2010, so we have lots of high-margin new products coming into the pipeline as well. So we think the margin story is very good and very good compared to our peers in 2009.

Lastly on cash, which was a big focus area for the year, we started 2009 with a target of $14 billion to $16 billion of Industrial CFOA. We actually beat the plan with $16.6 billion of CFOA. The teams did a great job of producing working capital by more than $3 billion.

And so where that leaves us right now between GE Capital and the GE parent, we have $72 billion of consolidated cash on the balance sheet. We've got $8.7 billion of cash at the parent. If you add in the announced dispositions of security and the Comcast JV, that's an additional $10 billion.

So our cash execution has been strong. We've got lots of cash we will be accumulating during the year and we think this really helps us from a financial flexibility standpoint.

So with that, I will turn it over to Keith to go through the fourth-quarter performance.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with the fourth-quarter consolidated results summary. For the quarter, we had revenues of $41.4 billion, which were down 10%, better than we had during the first nine months of the year. Industrial sales of $28.3 billion were down 9% and financial services revenue of $13.5 billion was down 14%.

We earned $3 billion of net income, which was down 22%, principally driven by the GE Capital comparisons. For earnings per share, we earned $0.28 including the cost of the preferred dividend and as Jeff covered, the total cash flow from operating activities was $16.6 billion, exceeding the high end of our estimated range for the gear, and that's a great result.

In terms of taxes, the consolidated rate for 2009 ended at a negative 11%. You can see the GE rate excluding GE Capital came in at 22% in line with our third-quarter outlook, and the GE Capital rate of 173%, it reflects the fact that we have a large tax benefit or credit divided by negative pretax income at the total GE Capital services level, and that results in the large positive rate similar to the first nine months of the year.

I'm going to cover more on taxes on the next page for the impact in the fourth quarter.

On the right side you can see the segment results. Infrastructure businesses had $4.3 billion of segment profit and that was done about 4% from last year. For the total year, the Infrastructure businesses were up about 1%, pretty good performance in this economy.

NBCU segment profit of $602 million was down 30%, again consistent with the first nine months of the year. GE Capital Finance earned $336 million. That's down 67%, also in line with the first nine months performance.

And C&I had another good quarter. They delivered $136 million of segment profit, almost triple from what their results were last year. So overall, the segment profit was down 16% and the difference between our total earnings down 22% and segment profit down 16% reflects the additional restructuring that we did in the fourth quarter and I will cover some more of that in a minute.

So I'll cover all the business details in the next several pages. Before I get into the business results, I just want to summarize the fourth-quarter items that impacted the quarter. The first one is one we've done all year long. We had $0.09 of restructuring and other charges that were recorded in corporate. We continue to invest in lowering our cost structure and this $0.09 was aligned by business. I will give you a couple of the numbers as follows.

Capital Finance was $256 million. Energy Infrastructure was $130 million. Technology Infrastructure was $110 million. C&I was $102 million and NBC was $48 million. The balance was in corporate, primarily environmental.

The significant projects that we completed in the quarter included exits of some non-core leasing platforms in our equipment services business in GE Capital. We closed some factories in lighting in Europe and we continued service shop consolidations in energy, so a continued reduction of our cost structure.

The second item in the quarter, we had a gain associated with FANUC. As you know, we dissolved our FANUC JV this quarter. We transferred the CNC business back to FANUC at fair value and that resulted in a gain of about $0.01 after tax.

Then the third item in the quarter is our industrial taxes, and as I showed on the previous page, the fourth-quarter industrial rate was 10% and that was low versus our total year estimate. I signaled that in the third quarter and that contributed about $0.05 of earnings in the quarter versus a mid-20s average rate for the industrial earnings.

The rate is lower in the fourth quarter to true up to the total year rate. For the first nine months of the year, the Industrial rate was higher than our total year estimate because of the mix of financial services low taxed earnings. And then in the fourth quarter we had to reverse basically the first-quarter charge to get to the expected annual rate of about 22%.

So net-net if you look $0.09 of restructuring, $0.06 of positives from tax and the gain is additional $0.03 of charges that basically help us improve our cost structure going forward.

For the business results, I will start with Capital Finance. Mike Neal and the team continue to make progress while we're working through this tough credit cycle. For the fourth quarter, revenues of $12.5 billion were down 15%. Again that is driven by our assets being down as well as lower interest rates. Segment profit of $336 million was down 67%, driven by lower tax benefits in GE Capital quarter over quarter, lower assets as we shrink the book, fewer gains, and that was partially offset by having lower impairments in the quarter and also lower costs.

Assets of $537 billion were down 6% year-over-year. They were down 10% excluding the impact of FX and assets were also down $14 billion from the third quarter. I'll cover more on assets as I go through the businesses.

So if you start on the right side of the page and you look at the activity that the team has done, first we've done a great job on funding. If you look at constant FX rates, we reduced our ending net investment by $53 billion from the year-end 2008. We completed our 2010 long-term debt needs. We also absorbed the extra cost from pre-funding our debt maturities and carrying that extra cash.

We did $34 billion of commercial originations for the year and fourth quarter was $10.9 billion, up 7% from last year's fourth quarter but up over 50% from the third quarter, so the origination team is fully engaged and back in business and allocating capital to high-margin opportunities. A return on that volume was over 3% in the fourth quarter.

Total year losses came in at $10.9 billion and losses and impairments were $12.6 billion, which was below the Fed base case that we laid out in March. Reserve coverage continues to be higher. I'm going to cover more on reserves in a few pages and the team took out $3.3 billion of SG&A costs during the year, a great job on controlling costs and reducing our cost footprint and helping to deal with the problems we have in the credit cycle.

If you look on the left side, I will make a few comments by business. As we said, every business was profitable in the quarter except for real estate. Starting with consumer, our consumer business delivered $259 million of earnings. That was down 69% from last year principally because we had lower tax benefits, partially offset by lower credit losses, so a little improvement in credit year-over-year.

In the consumer business, a couple of the pieces, global banking earned $184 million, which was down 50% from last year because of higher credit costs. Our US retail finance business was profitable in the fourth quarter. They earned a modest amount and again, that was driven by lower credit losses and lower costs. And our restructuring operations earned $90 million, up -- over $90 million because of lower credit costs and principally in the UK home lending business.

The real estate business had a loss of $593 million in the fourth quarter. We incurred $[350] million of after tax credit costs, which helped boost our reserve provisions and we also had $315 million of marks and impairments on the equity book.

Reserve coverage increased 47% and reserves are up to $1.5 billion now in real estate. And we just continue to see pressure on property valuations and we will build reserves as they are needed.

Commercial lending and leasing had a good quarter. The business earned $362 million, a positive $500 million swing from last year as marks and impairments improved by $300 million and costs were lower by $200 million.

GECAS had another great quarter. They earned $277 million. That was up 16% driven by core growth. We also funded $2 billion in new volume at over 4% ROI and asset quality remains strong, with only three aircraft on the ground at year-end.

And finally, Energy Financial Services earned $31 million, down 86% from lower gains and lower tax benefits. So overall Capital Finance earned $2.3 billion of net income for the year and let me go into some of the portfolio quality details.

First on portfolio quality, the stats on delinquencies and non-earning assets and on the left side is our commercial equipment finance data. The 30 day plus delinquencies for equipment are down 20 basis points from Q3 to Q4, which is a good sign. Americas delinquency was down 27 basis points and we also had declines in both Europe and Asia. Commercial nonearning assets declined $600 million from Q3 to Q4, which is another positive sign, and we remain well collateralized on the remaining nonearning assets.

In real estate, 30-day delinquencies were up 14 basis points to 4.33% and nonearnings were actually down almost $70 million in the fourth quarter, down 11 basis points.

Over on the right side on the consumer data you can see the latency data has leveled off. We have had a slight decline in the mortgage delinquency which is good news. For North American retail, the delinquencies were up 32 basis points to 7.59% and a lot of that is driven by seasonality. In a normal Q3 to Q4 seasonal change, we would have over 50 basis points of increase in delinquency. So I think it's up a little bit but manageable relative to the normal seasonality.

The good news in the consumer segment came also in the UK home lending business. Delinquencies were down 52 basis points from the third quarter. The UK mortgage portfolio is performing better. We had six months now of house price increases in the UK and we continue to realize gains on the properties that we repossess and sell and our inventory also declined, our inventory of homes that we we've repossessed declined by over 36% in the fourth quarter versus the third quarter. So some good signs in the UK home lending business.

Global banking delinquencies were stable at 4.6% and on the right side, the far right, on nonearnings ,you can see the consumer nonearning assets, they were up about $100 million, up slightly in the fourth quarter, but the mortgage nonearners declined and the non-mortgage increased about 30 basis points, driven by continued pressure in the US with the high unemployment rate. So a pretty tough environment, but I think some signs of stabilization with a leveling off of delinquencies and a decline in nonearnings.

If you look at reserve coverage, we increased our reserve coverage every quarter last year. You can see that in the bars here. In the fourth quarter, our provision for loss was $2.9 billion and with write-offs staying flat in Q3, we increased reserves by another $730 million. Coverage was up to 2.36%. In December, we had forecast that we would have coverage about 2.25%, so more than 10 basis points better in the final close here.

For the Commercial business, our reserves increased over $500 million, principally in real estate. As I mentioned, nonearners came down over $600 million and we continue to benefit from our strong collateral positions.

For Consumer, you can see the reserves were up $230 million. Coverage was up 24 basis points and the impact of secured and unsecured consumer lending comes out here. If you look, our North American retail coverage is up to 7% and then in the secured lending on the consumer side where we have the mortgage collateral and the mortgage insurance coverage, the coverage is up to 1.62%. And on the houses that we are repossessing, we are realizing all year long, all four quarters, 115% proceeds versus the foreclosure marks on our mortgage assets. So pretty good performance on taking over the assets.

For the year, we increased our reserves by $2.8 billion and the coverage is up 94 basis points. Now, the nonearning charts on both commercial and consumer we put those in the supplemental deck, but you can see we continue to believe that we are adequately reserved for the nonearning assets for each of the business segments.

To wrap up Capital, I thought I would just resummarize the sub business dynamics that Mike Neal and the team outlined in December for 2010 outlook. If you start at the top, consumer loans and leases, that represents about $200 billion of our assets. The outlook for 2010 is much better. Losses will be lower. Most of the portfolios in this business have stabilized already in terms of delinquency and lower nonearnings and the outlook is pretty good with the new volume that we are originating.

For US consumer, 2010 should also be better. Losses should be stable but our underwriting discipline that paid off in 2009 should continue to give us benefits as we have raised our underwriting standards and we've cut open lines to buy and we have been very disciplined on collections. Overall the result here is going to depend on where unemployment goes.

For global banking, the outlook is also better. Losses should be stable and we expect to benefit from the positive growth where we operate. CEE, Central and Eastern Europe, GDP growth should be over 2% in 2010 versus 2009 and that is good for these businesses.

I mentioned the UK mortgage is improving. We expect lower losses in 2010 as the market dynamics continue to improve and for the verticals, we expect about flat performance. We are being cautious in this aviation cycle, but our business does remain highly secured and well positioned here and when you look at the asset performance we have.

Finally for real estate, we expect continued pressure. We expect losses to be higher but we are working our way through this cycle. We've got an intense focus on operations and risk management and some liquidity has returned to the real estate market.

So if you look in December, our outlook for Capital Finance was about flat. We have some encouraging signs that show the potential for earnings growth in 2010 and we should be well positioned for solid capital growth in 2011 based on the outlook we have today.

So let me switch to Industrial. I will start with NBC. For the quarter, revenues of $4.3 billion were down 4%. Segment profit of $600 million was down 30% and just a few comments on the market before I cover the business segments.

The advertising market is definitely improving. Probably the best indicator of that would be the scatter pricing that you get on top of the inventory that you sold in the upfront. We have available inventory that is sold in the quarter and pricing on scatter for the broadcast network was up low double digits in the fourth quarter and the outlook for the first quarter, it is up over 20%. And then pricing on scatter for cable was up over 30% in the fourth quarter and it is also up over 30% in the first quarter. So we are seeing benefits on the network and cable and the local stations and the ad market is definitely getting better.

If you look at the business segments, cable had another great quarter, revenue of $1.3 billion was up 8%. Op profit was up 8%. It was led by entertainment. USA delivered more total viewers in prime than any other cable network in history, so they continue to have just a great performance.

We've got a bunch of great new shows that are -- new series coming. Syfy, Bravo and Oxygen were all up over 20% and on the news side, CNBC had a revenue and profit growth despite tough comparisons with last year's fourth quarter. So they are performing well in this economy.

On the broadcast side, revenues of $1.6 billion were down 2%. Op profit was down in broadcast, driven by the NFL sports fees and by new programming investments that we have been making. Everyone is aware of our decision to move Leno back to the Tonight Show and to reset the 10 p.m. lineup after the Olympics. I am not sure I could report more than has been written on this subject.

News continued its leadership position and the local stations also had good earnings growth in the fourth quarter.

You know, the toughest part of NBC and the thing that has driven our earnings all year long has been film. Revenues of $1.2 billion were down over $400 million in the quarter and we didn't have any big films in fourth quarter in terms of theatrical, but we had very tough DVD comparisons.

In the fourth quarter of '08, we sold over 33 million DVDs with hits like Mamma Mia, Hulk, and Wanted. And this year we only had 12 million, with Inglorious Basterds and Public Enemy, the two biggest. So that was really challenging. The film op profit was down over $200 million in the quarter, which really drove the NBC results not only in the quarter but for the whole year.

So NBC ended 2009 with segment profit down 28%. For the first quarter, we are seeing pretty good demand for the Olympics. As I said, the advertising market is picking up. Revenue should exceed our December estimates for the Olympics by $25 million to $50 million, but even with that demand we expect a loss of somewhere around $250 million on the Olympics in the quarter.

Obviously the big news in the fourth quarter for us was the Comcast announcement. We are working jointly on preparing our regulatory filing and our other notices with the Department of Justice and the [FDC] to get that under way.

Next is technology infrastructure. John Rice and the team delivered revenues of $11.3 billion. They were down 10% and segment profit of $2.1 billion was down 16%. You can see the business results on the bottom left. Overall this was a tougher quarter for aviation and transportation, but we saw some very positive signs in healthcare.

Let me just take you through the three businesses here. Aviation fourth-quarter orders of $4.4 billion were down 16% year-over-year. Major equipment orders of $1.5 billion were down 48%. Basically the airframe or backlogs are still full. We had $900 million of commercial engine orders, $600 million of military orders, and the backlog on equipment ended the quarter at just under $20 billion, down about 5% versus last year. So still a very solid position.

Service orders were up 19%, driven by one large order, a $350 million order with Aviall for parts deliveries that will occur in late 2010 and most of 2011. Without that, commercial spares of $19.5 million per day were down about 11% and commercial overhauls was pretty good, up 8%.

Revenue in the quarter was down 8%, driven by equipment revenue down 21% partially offset by service revenue up 8%. The main driver on that was fewer military engines. We shipped 238 military engines, down 14%. We actually shipped 516 commercial engine, which was up 5% in units but still a tough revenue comparison.

Op profit in the quarter was down 18%. It is primarily driven by the absence of some prior fourth-quarter '08 transactions that don't repeat and also lower spare parts shipments in the quarter. Spare parts shipments were down 4%. Excluding those, op profit would have been about up a slight amount as positive pricing offset lower volume and higher R&D costs in the aviation business.

If you go to healthcare, the fourth quarter was the most positive orders quarter we've seen since the third quarter 2008. Orders of $5.1 billion were up 11%. Equipment orders of $3.4 billion were up 13%. We had about 4 to 5 points of benefit from FX, but the trend was very broad. If you look, I'm just going to give you a lot of numbers on the different modalities and regions of the world. They are all positive.

Diagnostic imaging was up 24%. We have not seen a quarter like that in a long time. Inside diagnostic imaging, if you look globally, China was up 32%, India was up 53%, US was up 34%. It's very broad. Clinical systems was up 8%. Life Sciences was up 11%. Surgery was up 13%.

In the US, equipment orders were up 9% and CT globally was up 20%. MR globally was up 36%. X-ray was up 16%. The lowest growth was MDX and that was up 1%. So service orders were up 6%. Healthcare IT was up 4%. It is just a much better quarter than we've seen in a long time.

In terms of the actual results in the quarter, revenue of $4.7 billion was down 2%. That was driven by equipment being down 2% and services down 3%. Segment profit was down 3% as the lower volume and a little bit of price were mostly offset by deflation and cost productivity.

If you go to transportation, that team continues to deal with just a really challenging environment. Orders of $900 million were positive though, they were up 3%. Equipment orders of $500 million were up almost $300 million, driven by international orders, including 300 [EVO] kits for China, 50 units for Brazil. Service orders, though, were really tough. They were down 40% and that is driven by the impact of the parked locomotives. You know, we still have about 5000 parked locomotives and that is impacting the service business in transportation.

Revenue of $600 million was down 56%. We are delivering significantly fewer locomotives. We did 91 locomotives in the fourth quarter of '09 versus 219 in the fourth quarter of '08.

And then finally, we had a service contract review in Erie as well. Over the last two years, we completed reviews of our service contract portfolios in aviation and energy and in the fourth quarter, we finished a project to relook at our total contract cost estimates in transportation and we had a charge of about $300 million in the quarter. That took transportation's results from a positive $150 million to a negative $160 million and this does complete our service contract review for the three businesses.

We have also had a lot of structural costs out in the business to counter the effect of the slowdown taking out close to 30% of the employee base in the business as we're just going to have lower locomotive shipments as we go into 2010.

For the year, transportation earned $470 million of operating profit and with the lower locomotive forecast for 2010, we currently expect the team to deliver about the same result, same total result next year.

So overall, if you look, Technology Infrastructure for the year delivered $7.5 billion of operating profit, down 8%.

And the final business is Energy. John Krenicki and the Energy team finished the year strong. Revenues of $10.4 billion were down 9%. It is a similar profile to Q3. We had positive operating leverage with segment profit of $2.2 billion, up 9%. You can see the business results on the bottom left and let me start with energy.

Energy orders of $8.8 billion were down 6% versus last year, so the trend continues to improve and they were up 33% from the third quarter, which is a nice sequential improvement. Thermal orders of $1.7 billion were down 19%. We had orders for 40 gas turbines versus 70 last year. All 40 orders were for outside the US. And if you look at the orders price, it's still pretty good. The thermal order price index was up 1% for the quarter.

Wind orders of $1.5 billion, they were down 25% from last year but they were also up 20% from the third quarter. We are seeing more activity. We had also quite a few push-outs. We had about $400 million of European orders that pushed into Q1 and we haven't included in orders any of the $1.4 billion Caithness commitment that we announced in the fourth quarter. So pretty good activity in wind and the wind orders price index was down 2% in the quarter.

Aero orders were down 40% to $400 million. Jenbacher orders were up 3% to $270 million, seeing pretty good demand there. Service orders were up 15% to $4.5 billion driven by just strong contractual service commitments. During 2009, we also built a $700 million backlog in Smart Grid orders that will deliver in 2010 and 2011.

So revenue in the quarter at Energy was down 13% to $8.3 billion. That is really just driven by the lower volume. Wind unit revenue was the main driver. It was down about 30%, thermal revenue was down 6%. We shipped 585 wind turbines versus 988 last year and we shipped 34 gas turbines versus 58 last year and service revenues were up 2.

On that revenue segment profit was up 11% and we got the benefit of the higher prices that we've had in the backlog. We got the benefit of deflation and pretty good service productivity, which more than offset that lower volume. Segment profit margins also grew 470 basis points to 21.9%, overall just a great performance in the Energy business.

Oil and Gas, they also had another good quarter. We are seeing some positive orders growth globally, a lot of demand in the LNG segment. Orders of $2.5 billion were up 30% in the quarter. Equipment orders of $1.4 billion were up 30% and that's driven by the strength in LNG and also drilling and production. Subsidy, great demand. We had $600 million of orders just from the Gorgon project in Australia, and there's several more projects coming in Australia around LNG.

Service orders were up 30% driven by incredibly strong repair and field service orders. They were up 20% plus we had solutions orders for equipment upgrades to help people with their productivity. That more than doubled to over $230 million.

Revenues of $2.3 billion in the quarter were up 10% driven by the strong pipeline and services revenues, and segment profit of $422 million was up 4%, driven by a positive deflation partially offset by some higher project costs as they implement these projects globally. So overall for the year the energy team just had a great year. They delivered $6.8 billion of segment profit. It was up 13%.

I want to walk through the next page a few of the changes that we're making, some simplification that we are doing to help make things a little bit cleaner in GE as we do our reporting and also as we operate the Company. These are going to be effective January 1.

First, we are going to put everything associated with Industrial, Electricity, Equipment and Components and Smart Grid into Energy. So the Industrial business out of C&I is going to go into Energy. The businesses from enterprise solutions associated with sensing and inspection and digital energy are going to become part of Energy. It is going to align everything we have around Smart Grid. I think it's a good move.

As a result of this change, we are going to transfer about $3.5 billion of revenue and about $300 million of segment profit into the Energy business and that will start again as I said as of 1/1.

Second if you take the Industrial business out of C&I, we are going to leave appliances and lighting together and they are going to be combined with the intelligent platforms from FANUC and it renamed GE Home & Business Solutions and it helps us to further focus appliance and lighting on the energy efficiency game. Compared to the current C&I segment, revenue in '09 for the Home & Business Solutions will be about $1.3 billion less and it will have a minimal impact on segment profit.

The third thing we are going to do on simplification I think is a great benefit for simplifying reporting for investors. You know, we have had Capital Finance as the reporting segment for Mike Neal and his team and then we have GECC, the registrant, GE Capital Corporation, and then we have GE Capital Services.

We are going to make Capital Finance equal GECC starting 1/1 and basically what that will do is it will take the treasury operations and the corporate costs and it will put it into Capital Finance and it will streamline our reporting and simplify our reporting. On that basis, Capital Finance's net income will be $1.7 billion for 2009, so around $600 million of after-tax expenses that are in corporate and treasury will show up in the segment instead of capital corporate and I think this is just going to be a nice simplification.

To help with the changes in the supplemental package that we put out today, we have a summary of all three of these changes on the reporting basis. We have the full year 2007 then we have by the quarters for 2008 and 2009. So it is not a big deal but we tried to give you this to just simplify how we are going to change the reporting and I look forward to this in 2010. I think it streamlines things for investors and for our management team.

The final thing on the fourth point here on the shelf, one of the results of the SEC settlement we had last summer was that we lost what is known as a well-known seasoned issuer status for GE for a period of three years from the time that we file our 2009 10-K. Now that does not affect GE Capital but because of this, we're going to have to file an updated registration shelf statement prior to filing the 10-K, which we anticipate will be sometime in the end of February. This is not a substantive change but procedurally we will have to file a shelf as a result of that settlement.

So next just for 2010, I thought I would revisit the framework that we covered with you in December. You know, we expect the Industrial profit to be about flat. Basically as you look at the businesses we are going to have growth in Energy, Oil & Gas, and Healthcare, and that's going to offset any potential pressure that we have in aviation and transportation.

Media will be down, driven by the Olympics, as I mentioned. Otherwise about flat for the year. Capital Finance will be about flat and now that Capital Finance will equal GE Capital Corporation, based on the early signs we see in delinquency, nonearnings and margin, GE Capital is positioned for upside. We've got to remain cautious on real estate, but the outlook has improved.

Corporate will also be about flat. We are going to have higher pension costs in 2010 versus 2009, but that is going to be partially offset by the fact that we have lower restructuring and again, the total amount of restructuring will depend on the projects that we develop during the year and what the paybacks look like.

Then we expect another very solid year of cash flow, $13 billion to $15 billion from our Industrial business in 2010. So we're not giving EPS guidance, but those drivers we will describe our operational outlook as you look at 2010.

And finally, I wanted to just cover one page of about the outlook going forward for cash and the macro picture for GE. The fourth quarter of 2008, most of 2009 was just a really tough period for GE and our teams executed very well. We've dramatically changed our future financial flexibility and I think this page summarizes it.

On the left side, you all know the Capital story. We closed 2009 with $64 billion in cash. We prefunded our 2010 long-term debt needs in 2009 with our focused shrinkage and our alternative funding, we're going to redeem $71 billion of long-term debt this year. We're going to keep our commercial paper below $50 billion and we are going to be able to prefund $25 billion of 2011 long-term debt.

We're managing our collections ahead of our originations. Our restructuring business is funding growth in other areas. Our quality of earnings are going to be better. We're going to deliver growth in pretax, preprovision earnings in 2010 and losses are going to peak and our capital ratios are going to stay above the regulatory requirements.

So our estimate right now is that we're going to contribute about $2 billion of equity into GE Capital in 2011 based on our income maintenance agreement and that is the extent of what we see as the potential capital needs that GE might have to put into GE Capital.

On the right side is the parent story. We continue to grow our cash balance from free cash flow. We are very cash efficient as a Company. We expect $10 billion of proceeds from the security and the NBCU transactions and we should end the year with over $25 billion of cash at the parent level.

So that is going to lead to a different framework for us in terms of capital allocation. We've pretty much reserved the $2 billion for GE Capital, but we're going to be able to invest in infrastructure. We are going to be able to look at a buy back. We are going to be able to grow our dividend in line with earnings. And you know, Jeff, when you think about this picture versus where we have been, I just don't think it's an either/or here on this menu. I think these are things we are going to be able to do when we get this flexibility.

JEFF IMMELT: No, I think, Keith, this is an immensely stronger story for the Company. I think we always look at bolt-on acquisitions in infrastructure. We think they will be available. We will be very opportunistic on the buyback and look at where the share price is and look at the preferred and things like that. And then I think we really see the ability to grow the dividend in line with earnings by 2011.

So we are committed to safe and secure for the Company, but we've got lots of flexibility to enhance shareholder value as we get through this picture during 2010.

KEITH SHERIN: I think it is just a tremendously positive outlook. (multiple speakers)

JEFF IMMELT: The team has done a great job here.

KEITH SHERIN: Lastly, just I think to recap something we talked about in December in terms of how you think about the Company going forward, we end the year 2009 at $1.03 a share. We see solid earnings growth in 2011 and 2012 and it really doesn't require a dramatic change in the global economy. We think things are getting better in GE Capital. We should get earnings rebound post this loss cycle. Fourth quarter is encouraging along those lines and as losses probably level off from peak in 2010, this just portends I think good earnings -- a capability for GE Capital in 2011 and beyond.

70% of our industrial earnings are in services. I really think that the service business model has been validated during this cycle, that the earnings have continued. And the fourth quarter just confirms that and so I think that's quite strong. Our equipment backlog is still strong. We see the markets generally better. Our margins are good in backlog. We have increased the R&D so we've increased the number of products.

And what we just talked about, the cash optionality that we are going to deploy in an investor friendly way and this story just gets better. And when you look at the years 2010 to 2012, the management team is going to be compensated to deliver these results for you in terms of EPS cash or OTC and funding. And so the management team is incredibly aligned with investors to accomplish what we have laid out here.

Lastly just to summarize some thoughts that we left you with in December, we've positioned the Company for solid earnings and cash flow growth in the future. 2010, solid growth in 2011. Our strength in technology services global markets really position us we think well today. We kept investing in the downturn. Our pipeline is strong of new products. We defined the business that fully utilize the GE competitive advantage. We've got a simple and strong portfolio where we can invest and grow.

We think the worst is behind us in financial services and that GE Capital will be smaller but still a meaningful contributor in the future. We should get this profit snap back as losses go down and we are generating significant available cash to be thoughtful and we will be thoughtful about creating long-term shareholder value. You know, we want to be safe and secure but we also are going to have lots of optionality as we look at the future.

So with that, Trevor, I turn it back over to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith, for that. Noelia, I think we are ready to open up the phone lines for questions now.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Bob Cornell, Barclays capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks very much. You know, going back to just the Capital Finance, could you give us an idea of what you provide -- I apologize for the granularity of this question in a big picture quarter, but in the commercial real estate loan book in the quarter, what sort of provision did you take there? Was that -- can you tell us. Keith?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, I mentioned it. In the quarter --

BOB CORNELL: Let me simplify the question. What was the provision for loss in the commercial real estate loan book for the year? The charge in the third quarter was something like $559 million. What was that charge for the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Fourth quarter was $350 million after-tax. If you go to real estate for the whole year, we started the year with $300 million of reserves and we ended the year with $1.5 billion, so it is a $1.2 billion increase for (multiple speakers).

BOB CORNELL: That's in the loan book?

KEITH SHERIN: That's correct.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, I guess the question is when you take off all the pieces of Capital Finance, the only piece you target as being a problem is the commercial real estate -- is real estate, so how much realistically could the provision go up in '10 and '11 even given the cycle off the $1.5 billion that you had in '09?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I don't have a forecast for what the provision is going to go up. I can tell you that in December when we showed you our outlook for 2010 -- and we don't have a 2011 framework here, Bob -- for 2010 on real estate basically we said that we thought you could end up with losses and impairments being somewhere between $1.9 billion and $2.9 billion in the real estate business for 2010. So that's a combination of what we put on the books as provisions. What's left in the reserve will depend on the write-offs. But I think that's the range. I

f you look at the business lost $1.5 billion this year and the range included in that was about $2.2 billion of losses and impairments and then for 2010, we are basically estimating the losses and impairments could be $1.9 billion to $2.9 billion. I think it gives you a range for how to think about how we are thinking about real estate (multiple speakers) --

BOB CORNELL: I'm sorry, apologize, what was the '09 summary and the 2010 summary for real estate losses and impairments? Just let me have those numbers again.

KEITH SHERIN: $2.2 billion.

BOB CORNELL: I guess the point I'm getting too, Keith, is if you don't see a big increase in the losses and impairments in real estate, then out of the $11 billion in total provisions for this year and everything else coming down, why aren't we going to see a bigger drop in the overall provision for loss in the Capital Finance in '10?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I think you look at it, we've tried to give you a framework based on the framework of stress cases in December that said the losses and impairments should be about flat in 2010. There could be an increase in real estate and there could be stabilization in other places and there could be declines in other parts of the portfolio. I think that when you look at what we see on delinquencies and on earnings, that is why we are basically cautiously optimistic. We think there could be some upside in GE Capital, Bob, but you are dealing with a call on future outlook based on what happens to unemployment, what happens to the real estate valuations, and you've just got to be sensitive to that.

I think we have given you a pretty good framework. I think we feel pretty good about it today, but there's a lot of activity that will happen between here and there.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, a totally changed question. You talked about wins and big projects, Jeff. I mean you had the Koreans out there won a number of nuclear projects. I understand the pricing of those projects is pretty aggressive. What are you seeing with regard to some of these big project wins globally? Are you seeing some pretty tough pricing environment?

JEFF IMMELT: I think Keith said it, Bob. I think the pricing of what's going in the backlog is still pretty attractive. I think the number for Energy was that gas turbines was up 1%. Wind was only down 1% or 2%. Meanwhile our deflation is very strong. So look, I think on balance we won the deals we wanted to win and the margins in backlog are still pretty attractive.

BOB CORNELL: Good enough. Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Thanks for that bar chart on 2011. I appreciate it. On the Transportation business, when you look at what happened in the quarter, you said there was a $300 million charge. Is that -- can you just explain the accounting and what you are doing there? And then you said I think it's going to be flat next year. Is that sales or is that profits are going to be flat next year in Transportation?

JEFF IMMELT: Sure, basically when you look at our services business, we have to look at the lifetime revenue that we're going to get from our customers. We estimate the lifetime cost over these 10 to 12 year customized service arrangements. And what we had to do was update those estimates based on the activity we see, the utilization in the fleet, the costs that we have as estimates of what it is going to cost to keep the fleet running with whatever the productivity and efficiency guarantees that we may have made. And as I said, you know, over the last couple of years we've done those reviews in Aviation and in Energy and in 2009, we completed that review in Transportation and basically with 5000 parked locomotives and with the cost estimates of what we have for what we are going to need to do over time, we had to true the cost estimate at a lifetime of those CSAs for about $300 million.

That is not something that repeats and when I said profitability for the business, we said they made about $500 million of op profit in 2009 and we expect the business to make about $500 million of op profit in 2010 on much lower locomotive volume deliveries.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, so even adding back the $300 million, you are still going to be down -- on a core basis, you are going to be down next year.

JEFF IMMELT: On a core basis, we will be down but a lot of that $300 million, some of that $300 million would relate to 2009 activity. Some of it might relate to prior periods as a cumulative catch up. So -- hard to split (multiple speakers).

STEVE TUSA: Right, so they set some things. Shouldn't that be a tailwind to next year's profit?

JEFF IMMELT: It should be, but if you look at the locomotive deliveries, Steve (multiple speakers)

STEVE TUSA: That answers my question, that's great. On the GE Capital side, you are still deciding to pre-fund even though the capital markets continue to heal up. How much do you estimate pre-funding in 2009 hurts your net interest margin? And then when you look out in 2010, how much do you estimate?

I understand you are originating more than probably we would've thought here in the fourth quarter so you are starting to put some of the money to work, but can you give us an estimate of how much pre-funding has been a headwind for the last year and maybe in 2010?

JEFF IMMELT: Sure, I think we have -- first of all, everyone has recognized you got to carry more cash from a liquidity perspective on how you run the business. I think the extra cash, the calculation we have is it is about $700 million of impact on GE Capital for the pre-funding and the fact that we are carrying a lot of cash where we borrowed that money, we are not earning that same amount obviously on putting it to very safe and short-term places. So it's about $700 million.

We're not going to continue to carry $60 billion plus of cash. We are going to bring that down over time but we've got quite a few debt maturities that we will refinance and in the first quarter, we will bring it down quite a bit, actually.

But -- so on a year-over-year basis, I think it's in the run rate. It could be a little bit better, but last year it was $700 million.

STEVE TUSA: Right, and then one more question. Just price cost, what would you -- what was it in total for the Company, the value gap in 2009? And what would you expect that to be in 2010?

KEITH SHERIN: Steve, in 2009, it was a very good year. It was probably in excess of $1 billion. In 2010, it will be a couple hundred million dollars, something like that.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thanks a lot. I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Maybe just trying to gather up all the pluses and minuses versus where your thinking was in December, very clear on GE Capital that you've gotten a little bit more positive there. Your numbers have come in. You've got better confidence there.

On the industrial side, Jeff, I thought I heard you talk a little bit more positively about the value gap in your opening remarks, but I think the $200 million or so is kind of in line with where you were thinking before. On the Industrial side, what else has changed overall in terms of giving you a little bit more positive outlook on the 2010 picture?

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, why don't I do something -- Keith -- if you want to, you can -- I would say that -- I went through the value gap on equipment. I think you've got to like the services orders and the services margins. So another part of the overall profit drivers are there, so I think that's quite encouraging.

I think the second thing is the healthcare performance in the quarter. As Keith went through, it's just broad-based both geographically and technically, so I think that's a plus. Then the third thing I would say, Terry, is that we did a lot of restructuring in the quarter and as we are able to do that restructuring, that allows us to improve cost base in 2010 and beyond.

So those would be the three things that I would talk about. I would say the last thing is the orders in general were slightly better than probably we had thought about even in December.

KEITH SHERIN: I'm sure -- maybe I can -- I'll add a little bit of framework in terms of last year and year-end we talked about the commercial deliveries, Terry, that we had and I will lay those out by business.

So if you look at aircraft, in 2009, we had about 1939 commercial engine deliveries. The 2010 plan has 1846, so it's down about 5%. In 2009, we had about 915 military engines deliveries and in 2010 it's 874. It's down 4%. So the outlook in aviation is for equipment to be down.

I think you've seen the spare parts order rates and those are going to be a key determinant of how aviation performs in 2010.

For locomotives, it's a big change. I think in 2009, we delivered 511 locomotives. In 2010 right now the team is planning on 250. It's a very difficult environment in terms of equipment. I think the outlook for '12 and '13 looks great based on environmental standards that are going to come into place but in 2010, they are really going to be dealing with the lower volume outlook.

And then Energy, 2009, we had about 134 gas turbines. 2010 the plan is somewhere around 117 and wind turbines are about flat. We had 2633 units in '09 and we've got 2616 in 2010. So the units in Energy are a little more stable.

So that helps us put a little bit of framework around what we think the volume is going to be in the major equipment drivers for 2010.

TERRY DARLING: That does. And, Keith, on the aviation services and spares in total, that whole piece of the puzzle, are you expecting profit down in that piece as well did you say?

KEITH SHERIN: Not at services in total. I think if you look right now for the year the commercial spares orders were down 4% and, you know, we've got a lot of -- it's been a tough year for aviation, right? But there's some positive signs. In the first three quarters of the year, revenue passenger miles were down. Freight traffic was down.

If you get into the last quarter, though, the last three months passenger traffic was up 0.3%, 0.6%, and 2.1%. Cargo grew almost 10% in November. Load factors have held up around 75% and I think the main positive for us in aviation, if you think about it, we've got about 23,000 engines. We actually had 1000 net adds in 2009 because our engines are going in and they're not the ones being retired. The less fuel-efficient ones are the ones being retired.

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, the price will be up as well, catalog price up 5%.

TERRY DARLING: That helps.

JEFF IMMELT: I think services in general across the Infrastructure businesses will have good revenue and op profit growth next year.

KEITH SHERIN: We're counting on about flat overhaul, about 1600 overhauls.

TERRY DARLING: Keith, just on restructuring expense, can you give us the all-in dollar number for '09 and kind of where that's pegged for 2010? It sounds like you may move that number higher over the course of '10, but maybe just give us the starting point thinking there, please.

KEITH SHERIN: In 2009, we spent $0.20 in restructuring and other charges. It was pretty split between Tech Infrastructure and capital and C&I and Energy and about $100 million in NBC. For 2010, we've got that down somewhere less than half of that. We have to see -- we will see what the projects are.

We have pension going up. Pension should be up and I think it is a little less than what people thought, about $1 billion pretax in 2010 versus 2009. That includes the impact of the discount rate and it includes the impact of the losses in 2008. That's about $0.07 after tax, so that's a good item.

And then that gives us a chance to be able to be flexible as we see good projects to be able to do restructuring and we don't have a final number pegged, but we do have the opportunity to do more restructuring in 2010 to continue to work on the cost structure.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, then just lastly thinking on Industrial tax rate for the year at this point, 2010?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, our outlook for 2010 would be that the Industrial tax rate will be in the low to mid-20s somewhat similar to this year, maybe a little bit up from this year.

TERRY DARLING: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BAS-ML: Thank you. Good morning, guys. Keith, just a follow-up on the restructuring question. What sort of a restructuring contribution are you guys expecting in 2010 based on the activities that you did in 2009? And the follow-up would be just are you expecting any kind of material compensation headwinds perhaps because you have to restore merit pay or anything like that this year?

KEITH SHERIN: John, I think all the compensation stuff is factored into the way the plans that we have outlined. I think on restructuring we basically get a two-year payback, so we ought to get to $1 billion in benefits or something like that. I would say beyond that if you go back to 2007, 2008, we also had pretty good restructuring in those years.

And if you think about just base costs between -- if you go from 2008 to 2010, our overall base costs will be down $5 billion or $6 billion, something like that over that time period. At the same time, we will have increased R&D 7% in 2009 and probably 15% in 2010. So those are just some of the dynamics.

JOHN INCH: No, I appreciate that -- what is -- by the way, Keith -- or Jeff, what is the outlook for the gas turbine business in the US and possibly the wind business as well if you kind of frame it between what happened this year, your orders next year, how do you see that business shaping up?

JEFF IMMELT: I would say there is a macro and a micro there, John. I think the macro story is that gas and wind are the fuels of choice, right? And so there's always a lot of interest from the US utilities around both of those businesses.

Then it comes down to the demand for electricity was down in '09, it's probably flat in '10, so where will the excess capacity be needed? And then the third part is just how many more projects like Caithness will we see vis-a-vis the US focus on green energy and renewable energy? I think there will be some of those in 2010. So, Keith, would you agree to that?

KEITH SHERIN: I agree. I think that's right.

JEFF IMMELT: We like being in gas and wind. We think longer term in the US those are going to be the fuels of choice.

JOHN INCH: It sounds like it's still going to be an international story at least for the next couple of years. Is that --?

JEFF IMMELT: At least for '10, that would be my sense, John.

JOHN INCH: Ca n I ask you just -- it's been reported in the press the proposed financial crisis responsibility fee, you guys didn't really talk about it. I think -- I don't remember what news service quoted possibly $800 million could be ascribed to GE Capital. What are you thinking about that or is it too soon to sort of even talk about it?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I would say it's a little early. I think there's a lot of activity that still needs to go on that. Based on what we understand from the press conference and then there was a clarifying call this week, for GE Capital if this were enacted exactly as it is proposed, we would estimate that it would be about $500 million after-tax impact on GE Capital Corporation. For a full year, our understanding is it is effective after June 30, so on a half-year, it would be about $0.025 if it were enacted exactly as proposed.

And our expectation is that based on the outlook we have that we would still be able to stick to our framework if that were put in place that way and still have GE Capital about flat.

JOHN INCH: Maybe just lastly, Keith, if I look at your $11 billion of net income this year, I think about 35% came from capital tax credits. Where do you guys stand in terms of the ability to maintain those credits, call it in 2010, 2011? Like I'm presuming they can still be held relatively intact as long as there's offsets. Is that fair? Otherwise on paper it kind of looks like these could be some significant headwinds.

KEITH SHERIN: No, that's true. We don't anticipate in the framework that Mike Neal and Jeff Bornstein laid out in December the tax credits being anywhere near that level. We had about $3.8 billion of tax credits as you said in GE Capital. This year it's not only -- it's from our structural benefits we have but also the fact that we have the losses in GE Capital. And it's the benefit of GE and GE Capital being together. We are able to offset those losses with our GE Industrial income from a tax perspective.

We expect in Capital somewhere around $2 billion of tax benefits in the framework that Jeff Bornstein laid out in December, so it would be substantially less and we absolutely believe that we will be able to continue to utilize all those benefits with the consolidation of GE and GE Capital without creating any deferred tax assets or anything like that.

JOHN INCH: Wit spill over into 2011, theoretically?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, theoretically in 2011 you are going to be dealing with pretax profitability in GE Capital that will end up with -- you are still going to get tax benefits from our structural benefits as long as the legislation that's in place today stays in place. But we expect substantially more pretax, which would in some ways lower the overall tax benefit at GE Capital, John.

JOHN INCH: Okay, great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Could you all just clarify total marks and impairments, so not the charge-offs, just the marks and impairments for GECS for the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: In the fourth quarter the marks and impairments were $430 million after-tax.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, and real estate?

KEITH SHERIN: $315 million.

STEVEN WINOKER: Of that, just so I'm clear on that. Secondly, in the wake of the Capital One call last night, it sort of raised the question of the increase in the 166, 167 reserves coming up magnifying the sensitivity of loss provisions to improving economic conditions down the road. In other words, the reserve release for private label credit cards, as you think about it going forward, how are you guys thinking about that?

KEITH SHERIN: I think Jeff Bornstein laid that out pretty clearly in the December. We can go back to those charts. I don't have them in front of me, Steve, but the way 167 is going to work is we are going to put those receivables back on our books. We already have the retained interest on our books. We will have a charge to equity in the first -- January 1 as part of the accounting change to reflect the reserve posting associated with those receivables and then we will earn on the full balance as we go forward in the year that will more than offset the fact that we don't have securitization gains.

So I think in total for the year it will be a slight net positive. We have already included from a capital ratio perspective a risk weighting on those assets in our ratios that this won't have a big impact on the ratios in terms of capital. We have accounted for those receivables and what we deal with the rating agencies and what we thought about in terms of our capital ratios for the year for GE Capital.

So Jeff showed you what the impact was on those ratios, but I think --

STEVEN WINOKER: I think the question was more -- was that but also more the magnitude of the coming release, but basically you're saying it's no change from what Jeff shared with us?

KEITH SHERIN: That's right.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And then in terms of the healthcare business again, I am just trying to get my head around the sustainability of those margins going forward, of the incremental or the decrementals in the business. Can you just lay that out a little more in terms of not only did you see a really strong quarter but your expectation for sustainability as you look through 2010?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Steve, I think that the demand was so broad and deep, in other words so many different geographies and so many different product lines that -- and the quality of the backlog was high, so the backlog build, that leads me to believe that the market has at least stabilized and might be improving. I think we've got a nice lineup of products.

I think, look, there's still some uncertainty around reform and what it means and things like that, but if you go back to meeting you guys had with John [Denny] last fall, the average age of the installed base is old. Our offerings are strong. I think you have to at least be guardedly optimistic about how this business can perform in 2010.

JEFF IMMELT: There has certainly been some market paralysis based on all the discussion in the US about what's the reform, what are the changes in reimbursement going to be, what's two hospitals plan on from a budgeting perspective? We certainly saw some of that free up with more clarity in the fourth quarter and I think that just certainty around what the regime is going to be is going to be is a real positive as you look at the US specifically. Global growth was great. (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: From a working capital standpoint, I think the team is executing better. And so I think our ability to sustain margins and cash are I think quite strong.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And the finally on the capital allocation discussion that you put out there in terms of the cash you are going to put to use, can you maybe, Jeff, provide a little more strategic color again about how to think about what you will define as attractive -- in terms of acquisitions so that investors -- we won't be surprised to see -- as you as you announce things over the next year.

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say is that the cash builds during the year. I think any acquisitions we do will be bolt ons and they will have a good way to execute towards a 15% cash return by year five. With experienced management teams and clear synergies both on cost and revenue.

STEVEN WINOKER: When you say bolt-on, that means in your parlance smaller than what?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I hate to limit it, Steve, but I just don't see us doing a big deal. I think they are going to be reasonable sized from a couple hundred million dollars to maybe a couple billion, in that frame.

STEVEN WINOKER: Fantastic, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. So it sounds like you had a fairly huge month in December for the major equipment orders, probably the CSA as well. How do we interpret that? Is this just customers holding back on their budgets until the last possible moment or is there a real improvement in the end markets you are seeing? Maybe then has that trend continued to generate?

KEITH SHERIN: Look, I don't think if you look at the long cycle businesses there is anybody looking at their budget in the quarter when they buy gas turbines or aircraft engines. These are long-term projects that people plan for and we are piece of the scope. So I think if you look at the energy business, you look at the oil and gas business, those are based on economic activity globally.

Aviation again, we are dealing with a phenomenon where we had such great orders over the last three years that the airframe or backlogs are pretty much full through 2012, 2013. And then finally, in healthcare I think you see a little bit of both, as Jeff said. I'm sure some people had budget money and they spent it but that's not a driver of the overall orders when you look at major equipment orders for the Company, Nigel.

NIGEL COE: Okay. So the uptick we saw is a real uptick and should be sustainable?

KEITH SHERIN: We had real global growth, Nigel.

JEFF IMMELT: I think there is some real global growth, Nigel. I think we've tried to be in '09 and '10 appropriately conservative about what we see and when we see it and maybe it is just some of that.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the comparisons back in '08, '07, '08 were just really a little lofty. So I think these also -- we look -- while there may be a negative (inaudible) on some equipment here, Nigel, these are very healthy levels for us to operate the business at when you look at these order levels. We have a negative (inaudible) but we can run the business profitably at these levels.

NIGEL COE: Okay, sure, and then on the financial crisis or subsidies fee, first of all, you mentioned net of taxes. Can you clarify that that will be eligible for tax reduction?

KEITH SHERIN: There was a conference call this week with the administration where that was clarified publicly is my understanding.

NIGEL COE: Okay, then if it does come to pass in its current form, what are your options in terms of limiting that? Could you reorganize GE Capital offshore? Do you shrink the balance sheet more than you are currently guiding?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think there are incremental things. First of all, there's a lot of work to do in terms of what's the basis for this fee. If it's a TARP loss recovery, is it on financial services and auto? So there's some macro questions that I think need to be answered above what we are thinking about. I think at a GE level, some of this right now we've just calculated off our total liabilities except for our Tier 1 equity and our deposits, FDIC deposits. We've got TARP. We don't have any TARP but we do have TLGP debt. We paid a fee on that. Does that get concluded in the [base] liabilities or not?

Finally, the size of GE Capital, obviously we're going to continue to shrink GE Capital. As we bring GE Capital down, that will benefit us. But again, I think those are around the edges, I think there's a strategic question about what comes out in the president's budget, what does the Congress passed, and then how does it get implemented by the regulators? Those are -- there's three steps here that we are going to have to work our way through.

We've given you if nothing changes based on our understanding today without deducting anything out of the liability bucket other than what has been defined, $0.05 on a total year basis; $0.025 in the second half is our current estimate.

NIGEL COE: Okay, and then just a couple quick ones here. First of all, if I back out the $300 million [service 2] down I guess within Transportation, it looks like your underlying margins about 24%. Is that right? That's pretty remarkable with these kind of volumes. Is that sustainable?

KEITH SHERIN: I'm not sure if you backed it out -- is that out of the Tech Infra segment in total?

NIGEL COE: That's within Transportation so if you add back the $300 million, I think you get about $150 million.

KEITH SHERIN: No, that's also in revenue. If you do it that way you'll get closer to their 17%, 18 present margin range.

NIGEL COE: Okay, fine. If you could just call out what the pretax on the FANUC gain.

KEITH SHERIN: It was a couple hundred million dollars.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Thanks, Keith.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citigroup.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Just a couple questions. I don't recall ever hearing one of these adjustments in service like this. If it was, I don't think it has ever risen to this size. How frequently do these reviews take place?

JEFF IMMELT: First of all, in the size of transportation, it is more significant. That is why you are seeing it here in the quarter in that business. We basically over the last few years have done a complete review of all of our service contract businesses. We started in aviation. We moved into energy and we completed those.

Today the process is on an annual basis every contract with a customer that has a CSA with us is reviewed. Usually it's about a quarter of the contracts each quarter and we will do a complete update of our long-term forecasts of what the total revenue over the life of the contract and the total cost over the life of the contract are. And if it needs an adjustment, we make those adjustments every quarter.

So they are more in the actual ongoing operations of the aviation and energy. They are every quarter. In transportation, our practice was not to do it on a contract by contract basis until this year and in the fourth quarter we said we've got to standardize this across the company, have every business do it the same way. And in 2010, transportation will do about a quarter of its long-term service contracts every quarter and review them the same way the rest of the Company does.

So we have been going through this for a number of years. We haven't had in a business on a relative basis something of this magnitude, but we have had adjustments in both aviation and energy. Some of the adjustments in aviation were back in some of our corrections we made two years ago, Jeff.

JEFF SPRAGUE: I guess the thing that just raises the concern is I just think about the demand disruption in electricity demand the last couple of years. Has there been pay-as-you-go headwinds in energy on just lower gas turbine utilization?

JEFF IMMELT: There have been, and on the cost of the overhauls of everything, if you look at the last several years -- if you go quarter by quarter in aviation, we've had periods in every quarter where we have had a little pressure in service costs and energy. We've talked about it, so yes, absolutely every quarter those are looked at and adjusted.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And just moving on, I think price was addressed a little bit earlier on. Just looking at my notes, I think you guys said wind price was up 10% in Q3 and now it is down 2% in Q4.

JEFF IMMELT: No, you are dealing with revenue. The price in the backlog was very strong. The orders price in the fourth quarter was down 2. So the backlog pricing in wind is very strong. The orders pricing for the year is about flat in total. Then the quarter was down about 2.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, so you still have positive price coming through backlog?

JEFF IMMELT: Absolutely.

KEITH SHERIN: And our material deflation, Jeff, is probably 4%, something like that for next year.

JEFF IMMELT: For next year. Right now we've got about 1.5% this year. So again, I think the value gap will remain positive.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, and then just on commercial spares, actually a very strong performance, down 4 and for the year I think you said. Obviously you had very good utilization relative to what was being parked and what was not being parked. But was there any comparison issue there that creates any particular headwind into 2010?

KEITH SHERIN: No, I think if you look at the numbers that I am giving you on spares rates, they take out the impact of any one-time order with AVL or anything like that. The fourth quarter spares orders were $19.5 million a day. That was down 11 in the quarter but for the year, as I said, down 4 at 19.4.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And does the guidance in any way anticipate or allow for potential gains on security at NBCU? Would those be restructured or (multiple speakers)?

KEITH SHERIN: No, I don't have anything in the guidance on that.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then finally, Jeff, I think you addressed it in December and actually I'm just looking at my notes and I don't have it clearly. On your last slide, you talked about driving people to compensation as it relates to these metrics. Obviously all we are seeing on the slide is kind of the triple plus for 2012. But what is it exactly that people will be compensated for? And how are they being measured?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Jeff, we have a three-year long-term incentive plan and so they have always been aligned with earnings per share growth, return on total capital, cumulative cash flow. So those will be the metrics that are the backbone of it and they will be reflected in the team with the double plus and the triple plus.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Are we going to know what those are, though? Is that going to show up in the proxy? Are we going to be able to kind of track and measure the Company relative to that so we know how you're doing?

KEITH SHERIN: I haven't looked at the proxy yet. We haven't historically done that, Jeff, but again, I just want to make sure you get a sense that the people are very much aligned with what I would say will be a strong performance on earnings per share in the future.

OPERATOR: Lee Rosenbaum, Loomis Sayles.

LEE ROSENBAUM, ANALYST, LOOMIS SAYLES: Keith, can you just refresh me in your comments when you were discussing income maintenance agreement, did you cite $2 billion in 2011? Did I hear that correctly? If so, what was your prior thinking on that number?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, yes, that is what I said. We forecast as part of the stress cases in March that 2011 could be anywhere from $2 billion to $7 billion. Today we are recommitting that our current outlook based on the GE Capital plan is somewhere around $2 billion and that would be put in in 2011.

LEE ROSENBAUM: Okay, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So just a couple of quick ones here. Enterprise solutions, obviously profit was up a lot, but was that entirely attributable or almost entirely attributable to the gain or is there something (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: No, that's right, the (inaudible) gain is in there.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, so basically it wasn't doing all that much different?

KEITH SHERIN: A couple hundred million dollars, otherwise it would be close to flat.

JASON FELDMAN: Got it. On finance, a little bit higher-level question I guess but you are talking I think a little bit more optimistically than you had been about the commercial side, the commercial lending and leasing, but it sounds like consumer is more stable, not necessarily down next year but fairly stable. Typically earlier last year and certainly when we talk to our finance guys you would expect the consumer business to turn around faster and the commercial tends to be later cycle.

Is there something different going on there or are those dynamics different this cycle or is it just your business mix? Any thoughts there?

JEFF IMMELT: I think we are just looking at unemployment kind of staying in around 10%. That's kind of what keeps the delinquencies and keeps the nonearnings where it is, so it hasn't crested over. I think if you look at the commercial side, we actually see nonearnings go down by $600 million in the quarter, you see delinquencies starting to roll over. Basically we have dealt with the restructuring on quite a few of the early companies that went into distress part of the recession and that is starting to show some signs of improvement.

KEITH SHERIN: So we see both positive next year. They're both positive.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, but was I wrong to say that you perhaps were more optimistic on the commercial side or seemed a little bit more positive there?

JEFF IMMELT: There's more visibility on commercial outside of a employment on consumer.

KEITH SHERIN: I think consumer was actually slightly better this year than we thought it was going to be. We finished the year (multiple speakers) so I think actually in some ways this is playing out -- some of it started in the second half of the year on consumer and will carry over and then the commercial I think gets better during the year.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, and then last one. You talked a little bit in terms of cash deployment on the kind of criteria that you might use for acquisitions. Are there particular kind of broader business areas that seem more or less attractive going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: I think we just talked about Infrastructure in general as being the sweet spot of the Company and that's where the capital will go.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. But within that just very broadly, not one particular part relative to the others?

KEITH SHERIN: You know, it's just our little secret.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, fair enough. Thank you very much.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, Noelia. I think that's the list of questions. We've gone through everything. Just to close out today, the replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon and Joanne and I are always available to take questions.

Just to announce our first quarter earnings release will be held on April 16, so please reserve that date. Thank you, everyone, for your time today.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation in today's conference. This concludes your conference call. You may now disconnect. Have a great day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i34532 : Components for Electronic Goods | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
gtrans : Transport | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c151 : Earnings | gvtrn : Transportation Department | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100205e61m0008d
  


 HD
 Q3  2009  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
15,858 words
   PD
16 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric third-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Noelia and I will be your conference coordinator today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thank you, Noelia. Good morning and welcome, everyone. We are pleased to host today's webcast. Regarding the materials for this webcast, we issued the press release earlier this morning and the presentation slides are available via the webcast. The slides are also available for download and printing on our website at www.GE.com/investor. We will have time for Q&A at the end of the presentation.

   TD
As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt and our Vice-Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Great, Trevor, thanks. Good morning, everyone. Just going to the first page on the overview. I think GE had another solid quarter. The global environment is improving, but we are expecting a gradual recovery. For the quarter, we earned $2.5 billion, $0.22 per share, down 51%, really driven by Capital Finance. I think the good news is the Industrial segment profit was up 4%. Infrastructure, Media and C&I all had positive earnings. Capital Finance was positive at $263 million, down to 87%, basically driven by a favorable tax credit as expected. We had aggressive cost out. We had another $0.05 per share of restructuring and other charges in Q3.

I think particularly noteworthy was solid execution in the quarter. We had cash flow of $4.4 billion. Our year-to-date CFOA is now $11.5 billion, up 1% and we are positioned for greater than $15 billion of industrial CFOA for the year. We've got lots of cash on the balance sheet. We had really substantial margin expansion, up 260 basis points.

Our infrastructure orders declined by 18%, but backlog increased and we had good orders growth sequentially. Capital Finance reserves continued to expand in the quarter and we are still investing in the long term. Our R&D spend is tracking to be higher in '09 versus '08. We did several small acquisitions and we continue to invest in the long-term growth of the Company.

The environment has definitely improved in the third quarter. We had a couple of factors as we ended the year, a dramatic financial crisis. That is definitely better. The credit markets are improving, pricing on new lending is attractive, but losses still remain high. Keith will go through that in a bit here.

We expected a difficult recession; I think that has really bottomed. We see signs of life. The appliance market improving sequentially, orders strengthening, scatter pricing at NBC better, delinquencies are leveling off, but there is still a lot of excess capacity and we are going to deal with high unemployment. And there is global growth. The emerging markets remain relatively strong and there is growth out there to be had. So the environment definitely improved in the third quarter.

Earlier in the year, we set out on some key priorities to execute as we went through this recession. The first one was to stabilize Capital Finance. We think our funding is well ahead of planned; our capital ratios are improving; we have got good margins. And we are going to work through a difficult real estate cycle. All the other businesses at GE Capital are profitable except for Real Estate and that is the one we are really going to have to work through.

We wanted to outperform in a tough economy by focusing on backlog and services, getting global marketshare, expanding margins and that is really performing as expected. And we wanted to strengthen the balance sheet through strong cash generation and to maximize financial flexibility. And we would say that is much improved versus where we were in previous this year.

Just turning to GE Capital, we really have made significant progress to make GE Capital safe and secure. We have shown this chart to you in a repetitive basis this year. On long-term debt funding, we basically have pre-funded almost all of 2010. We feel great about that. Our commercial paper and GECS is really at our goal of $50 billion. Our leverage continues to decline. In the fourth quarter of '08, we were at 7.7 to 1 leverage. We are now 5.7 to 1. All of our ratios have improved, our Tier 1 common ratio is now at 7.5%. And importantly, the equity at GECS has increased to $71 billion.

And we have been able to shrink GE Capital ahead of plan. We now are putting out there an even more reduced balance sheet plan for the fourth quarter. This has a negative impact on GE Capital revenue, but we think it is really consistent with our strategy and approach. So strong execution through the crisis, ahead of plan on all metrics.

Looking at the Industrial side, I think some good news in that our backlog grew by $5 billion in the third quarter. If you look at equipment, our orders improved about $700 million sequentially quarter-over-quarter. Our service orders were up 3% driven by strength in energy with Smart Grid and our backlog and services grew by $5 billion. We think that the trend on orders, particularly equipment orders, will be up sequentially from the third quarter, again in the fourth quarter when we look at our backlog of what is in our funnel. So we really do look at the second quarter as potentially the low spot on equipment orders. And keep in mind that these results don't include some big commitments we received in energy in Kuwait and aircraft engines with American Airlines. So I think when you look at a total backlog of $174 billion, that should give our investors I think some comfort in terms of the visibility we have got for the future.

We continue to focus on Industrial revenues. Last December, we set out some key initiatives and key priorities as we went through this year. The first one is to protect backlog and really the backlog is up $4 billion versus the beginning of the year. Cancellations remain extremely low and again, we think this is a great job done by our commercial teams. We wanted to focus on growth in emerging markets and this shows you some progress we are making in China, India, Eastern Europe. We are winning big orders in the Middle East and we continue to think that emerging markets represent real strength for the Company going forward.

We are launching more new products in 2009; our R&D spend is up. We feel good about our share position overall. We are extending productlines. We have got big initiatives in healthcare and clean energy. We have got some new product launches that are gaining hold and growing our adjacencies. So this continues to be a big focus.

And the stimulus really hasn't shown up yet. We expect to ramp up in the fourth quarter in 2010. You will see in the fourth quarter some wind commitments coming out of the stimulus. We have more orders in the funnel on Smart Grid. Healthcare IT we expect to pick up in Q4 and some big global rail projects that are funded by other governments we are quite encouraged about as well.

I think importantly, the services model remains intact. The service revenue is solid. The backlog of CSAs continues to grow; our margins continue to expand. We had nine new aviation CSAs in the quarter. Healthcare is growing its service business in China and India. Our oil and gas service backlog has grown and even in transportation, we are seeing some of the segments have some upward trends. So total backlog is at $174 billion. It is a record high. We have got good visibility on those backlog orders and we feel good about how we are positioned.

We have continued to execute well in 2009 and we think we are well-positioned for 2010. Our margins grew by 260 basis points in the quarter, up to 16.3% and they grew across all the major segments. We had contribution margin rate expansion, a positive value gap of price versus cost, service margins expanded. And keep in mind that we did have a 100 basis point expansion by no repeating the Olympics, but even without that, this was excellent performance by the team. So we are on track for growth for the year.

We continue to reduce base cost. Throughout the year we have done significant restructuring to date and our third-quarter base costs are down 10% and we have got more ideas for restructuring. We have got a funnel of about $2 billion plus on ideas all with a two-year payback. We announced some in the third quarter in lighting and transportation. We have got another $700 million being reviewed for potential fourth quarter and 2010 execution. So we think this gives us some good momentum going into 2010.

Lastly, industrial cash flow is a big highlight for the Company in the quarter. We generated $4.4 billion of Industrial CFOA in the quarter. It puts us up 1% in Industrial CFOA year-to-date. This strong focus we have had on working capital is really working throughout the Company, so we feel great about that.

Just in terms of where we stand, we have got consolidated cash of $61 billion on the balance sheet right now and importantly, I think when you look at our quarterly CFOA, less the reduced dividend, it allows us to grow the cash at the parent substantially quarter after quarter after quarter, which we think is quite appealing for the Company as we go forward. So CFOA is on track for greater than $15 billion for the year. I think last December we said we would be between $14 billion and $16 billion. We think this really speaks well for the execution of the team and positions us well for the future. So with that, let me turn it over to Keith to go through the third-quarter performance.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Jeff. Good morning, everyone. I would like to start with a summary of the third quarter. On the left side is the summary for continuing operations. Revenues of $37.8 billion were down 20%. That is as we expected. Industrial sales at $25.1 billion were down 13%. You saw in the press release organic growth was, on Industrial, was down 9%. Financial Services revenue at $12.7 billion, down 30%. I will explain more on that when I get to the Financial Services page. We earned $2.5 billion in net income, which was down 45% and for earnings per share, we earned $0.22. That does include the cost of our preferred dividend.

As Jeff covered, total cash flow from operating activities was $11.5 billion, which was a great result through the three quarters and in terms of taxes, I will separate this between the GE and the GE Capital rates. The GE rate for the quarter of 22% is down about six points over last year due to higher [global] benefits from our lower taxed European operations industrially. Year-to-date, the GE rate is 26%. That is somewhat above our current estimate of a GE tax rate of a low to mid 20%s for the year, so we would expect a lower GE rate in the fourth quarter to bring the total year down to that level.

For GE Capital, because there is a large tax benefit and a pretax loss, this is a negative divided by a negative. We have a high positive rate for the quarter. The larger tax benefit in the quarter is mainly due to lower pretax income. If you look year-over-year, GECS pretax income was down $2.6 billion and at a regular tax rate, that is $900 million of lower taxes, which more than explains the change in the rate in the quarter. The credit in GE Capital drives the consolidated rate to a negative 7% third quarter year-to-date.

On the right side, you can see the segment results. Our Infrastructure businesses had $3.3 billion of segment profit, which was flat with last year. NBCU segment profit was up 13%. I'll explain the benefits from the A&E transaction on the next page. GE Capital Finance earned $263 million, including the favorable tax credits and C&I had a nice quarter, $117 million of segment profit, more than double last year. Overall segment profit was down 26% and the difference reflects the restructuring completed at quarter between the 26% and the 45% in earnings.

So let me go into the details of the businesses in a few pages, but before I get into the businesses, I will just cover some of the third-quarter items that impacted our results. First, we had $0.05 of restructuring and other charges that were recorded in corporate. We continue to invest in lowering our cost structure and the pretax charges were aligned by business as follows. It is not on the page; I will just give you some of the numbers.

Tech Infrastructure was $234 million of lower-cost programs; C&I, $161 million continued restructuring, a lot of work on reducing our incandescent footprint; energy infrastructure, $77 million; Capital Finance, $57 million and the balance was in corporate.

The second items, we had $0.06 of marks, after tax marks and impairments in GE Capital. If you look at the details, the largest items, we had $0.02 of impairments in our commercial Real Estate business. We had $0.01 in GECAS in our annual evaluation review. We had $0.01 for additional FGIC write-offs where basically the FGIC investments are down to somewhere around $15 million now and we had $0.01 in treasury ineffectiveness in the quarter.

And then finally, NBCU, we had some pluses and minuses in NBCU. First, we did realize a gain from the sale of a little more than a third of our ownership stake in A&E. A&E, as you know, combined with Lifetime in the quarter and that gain was $283 million after-tax at the GE level. That was partially offset by a write-down of, first, NBC's stake in NDTV, which is an Indian entertainment investment. We also had our share of an impairment on the value of the Weather Channel, plus we had some programming asset write-downs. The net impact of those items was $89 million positive after-tax included in the NBC segment results. So that is $0.01 positive on the net of the four items. Year-to-date through Q3, we have executed $1.9 billion of restructuring as Jeff said and we continue to reduce our cost structure going forward.

I will start with a few pages on Capital Finance. Mike Neal and the team continue to execute well in a very challenging environment. For Q3, the revenues of $12.2 billion were down 30%. That is driven by our assets being down $70 billion year-over-year. It is also driven by the impact from deconsolidating Penske, which was about six points of revenue decline in the quarter. And we also had lower revenues because we have lower gains, principally in Real Estate and also from lower interest rates with our floating-rate book. Capital Finance earned $263 million. That was down 87% driven by the higher credit costs. I will cover that in more detail. Lower gains and the impact of again shrinking the business.

I'm going to start on the right side and then I will cover the businesses. Our most recent update was July 28 and from that meeting, a few of the key categories of items we covered. First, funding. Our funding is in even better shape. Jeff showed you we have now completed about 90% of our pre-funding for 2010, which is great to have done. We need to do less than $5 billion for the remainder of this year. And when you look at the profile going forward right now, if you go back to the July schedules, we are only planning on doing $20 billion of long-term debt in all of 2010. So the funding is in great shape.

Originations continue to be attractive. We underwrote $7 billion of commercial volume in the third quarter at about a 3.3 return on investment, so that continues to remain very positive.

Losses, third-quarter year-to-date losses and impairments are $9.3 billion and if you just annualize that rate, they would be about $12.3 billion or about $700 million lower than the Fed base case we presented in March. I will cover Real Estate in a separate page. We increased loss reserves $757 million in the quarter and our coverage is up over 2%. And we continue to be ahead of our plan on all the cost-out metrics. We started the year, as you know, with a target of over $2 billion and we are tracking close to $3.7 billion for the total year for cost-out.

So a few comments by the businesses on the left side. First, our consumer business delivered $434 million in net income. That is down 45%. That is driven by the higher credit costs. A few of the pieces, North America private label credit card business earned $118 million even with $6.5 billion of lower assets year-over-year. Our global banks earned $151 million despite higher credit costs and our restructuring operations, including the UK home lending, earned $125 million in the quarter.

Our Real Estate business obviously had a very tough quarter. We lost $538 million versus earning $244 million last year, so this explains the biggest decline in our earnings. We had $559 million of pretax credit costs and another $285 million of pretax marks and impairments. The majority of the credit costs are for reserve strengthening versus losses and reserves were up $458 million from Q2. I will cover more on Real Estate, as I said, in a few pages.

Our commercial lending and leasing business earned $135 million, which was down 65%, again, as a result of higher credit costs and lower core income as the assets here are down $34 billion versus last year. GECAS had another strong quarter. They earned $191 million and that included the impact of the third-quarter impairments of $74 million and we ended third quarter with one aircraft on the ground. So the portfolio remains in good shape. Energy Financial Services earned $41 million, down 87% from last year driven by lower gains.

Two final points on GE Capital in total before I flip the page. First, we have had a lot of discussions about GE Capital during the last four months because of the proposed regulatory changes. As you know, there have been a lot of positive developments in this area and we are highly confident that GE's ownership of GE Capital will be grandfathered. However, those discussions led to questions around whether GE had a strong enough commitment to GE Capital. You know the explicit commitment that GE has with GE Capital is the fixed charge covenant agreement. During the last year, we received questions about whether GE or GE Capital could terminate that agreement at any time, whether the three years was long enough.

Based on our analysis of the agreement and review of other companies' agreements, we are modifying the fixed charge covenant agreement. We are going to extend the term to five years from three and we are putting in a clause that over 50% of the long-term debtholders would have to approve any future negative modifications to that. We think these changes appropriately address any concerns regarding our strong commitment to GE Capital. So we will put out some information about that to give you the words of how we are modifying the agreement.

The last point is that, in our continued commitment to transparency, we have scheduled another GE Capital update. Right now, we have got it on for December 8 and Trevor will get the details out to everyone.

So a little bit about the portfolio quality and non-earnings. On the left side is the commercial equipment finance data. 30 plus day delinquencies for the equipment businesses are up 23 basis points in Q3 versus Q2. We saw increases of 37 basis points in the Americas in core midmarket accounts. That is partially offset by lower delinquencies on 30 plus in both Europe and Asia.

If you look, the commercial non-earnings were up 41 basis points. Again, that is driven by the midmarket accounts where we have collateral coverage and I will cover more on non-earnings in two pages.

On the right side is the consumer data. This continues to develop into the two different stories based on the type of exposure, the mortgage and the non-mortgage. We broke out these two types because the loss dynamics are so different. We are secured on the mortgage side. For 30 plus delinquencies, you can see the delinquencies have leveled off for both mortgage and non-mortgage, which is good news. Non-mortgage delinquency is driven by North America, which was up 31 basis points in the third quarter. That is about half the normal seasonal increase we usually see from 2Q to 3Q.

In the UK, 30 plus delinquency actually declined 9 basis points to 24.7% on the mortgage book. So that is still a high level, but at least the trajectory has changed and we continue to see improvement in home prices in the UK. We are realizing gains versus our marks on the properties we repossess and sell.

For consumer non-earnings, the actual dollars are down about $100 million versus Q2 at $6.5 billion. However, the percent is up slightly as the consumer assets are down slightly.

Next is an update on reserve coverage. We had another good quarter for reserve strengthening. Our provision for loss was $2.9 billion in Q3 and with the write-offs flat in Q2, we increased our reserves by $757 million in the quarter. You can see that both commercial and consumer increased their reserves. The reserve increase in commercial was $593 million. About $415 million of that was for commercial real estate and overall, the coverage increased by 30 basis points versus the second quarter.

For consumer, the reserves were up $164 million and coverage went up 20 basis points and for mortgages in the consumer book, the coverage is also up and we are realizing 115% proceeds versus our foreclosure marks on the real estate that we own in the mortgage book. So continued strengthening of reserve levels, another good quarter, coverage up over 2%.

Next is an update on non-earning assets and reserve coverage. These are the same charts that Jeff Bornstein, our CFO from GE Capital, covered in March and July at the update meetings. Since we've viewed these several times this year, I am not going to go through all the bars on the charts, but I thought I would just cover a few of the points on the update.

On the left side for commercial, our reserves at the end of Q3 are up to 189% coverage on our estimated loss exposure. Again, that is up from 173% in Q2. We continue to track and analyze the actual results versus our estimates for recovery and our assumptions continue to hold as we update the actuals each quarter.

On the right side, we continue to have almost two times coverage on our non-mortgage loss exposure. So principally the private-label credit card and other unsecured consumer loans. And our mortgage reserves are up to 206% of the loss exposure versus 173% in Q2. And Jeff will cover more of this -- Jeff Bornstein will cover more of this again in detail at the December 8 update.

And finally an update on commercial real estate. I already covered their earnings in the quarter, but here is more information on the business. On the left side is information about the debt book, 30 plus delinquencies on the debt book are up slightly to 4.19%. This is right in line with other bank real estate portfolios if you exclude the impact of development and construction, which we don't have. Non-earnings of $1.3 billion in real estate debt were flat from Q2 to Q3 and in the third quarter, we performed a valuation review of our entire debt portfolio using relevant third-party data. The result of that review was an increase in specific reserves of $562 million.

If the loan to value is more than 100% and there is a refinancing event in the next 24 months, we basically put up reserves at a 100% loan-to-value level even if the property is current and cash-paying. So for 77% of the loans, which we reserved in 3Q, the properties are paying current. If you look at the total debt service coverage for the total portfolio, it is about 2.5 times and with the reserve increases this quarter, our coverage went up to 2.3%.

On the right side, some of the metrics for the equity book. Third-quarter net operating income is in line with our original outlook, close to $1.2 billion 3Q year-to-date. We have had some gains in the year, but they are below plan. In the third quarter, we sold 72 properties for an after-tax gain of $51 million, but that is clearly less than last year. Impairments are running above plan. As I said, we had several hundred million dollars of impairments in the Real Estate book in the quarter.

Occupancy is in line with our estimates and the team has done a good job of releasing space. In the third quarter, we had 7.3 million square feet expire and we have re-leased 7 million of that in the quarter. So overall, if you look at the Real Estate business, our total credit losses and impairments are $1.5 billion through three quarters. And if you look at the segment, it is tracking closer to the Fed adverse case, but again well within the boundaries of what we laid out for the risk in Real Estate and the potential losses in the March stress case. So we feel like the team is operating pretty well in a pretty tough environment. The risks are understood and manageable.

I will shift out of Capital now and just cover the other businesses. First is NBC. For the quarter, revenues of $4.1 billion were down 20%. We are comparing to last year, which had over $1 billion of revenues for the Beijing Olympics. So if you adjust for the Olympics, revenues were basically flat year-over-year. Segment profit of $732 million was up 13%. In the first and second quarter, we showed you the reported variances were not as bad as they looked. For Q3, I'll adjust for the gain and that goes the other way.

On the box on the top right, you can see are reported V of 13%. If you adjust for the net benefit of the A&E/Lifetime transaction gain and impairments, which I covered on the third-quarter items page, the operations variance would be down 9% in the third quarter.

In terms of going around the business performance, I will start with cable. Cable just continues to perform extremely well. The revenues of $1.2 billion were up 8%, profit of $552 million was up 11%. USA led the way as the number one cable channel for the 13th consecutive quarter. They had strong revenues and profit growth. Syfy, CNBC, Bravo were also all up.

If you go to broadcast, revenues of $1.4 billion were flat ex the Olympics last year and op profit was up about 4% ex the Olympics. Four weeks in, the Jay Leno show is exceeding our ratings estimates as are Conan and Fallon. So we are happy with the 10 o'clock and the late-night performance. And we're three weeks into the new season and our prime ratings are on our estimates and as Jeff said, fourth-quarter scatter is up double-digit in prime and up over 20% on cable. So that does show some signs of life as he mentioned.

On the right side, the film business had a very tough third quarter. Revenues of $1 billion were down 20% and op profit was off by over $120 million. We had tough comparisons to last year, plus less-than-expected box office performance this year and the parks were down 14% in op profit as expected in this environment.

And finally on digital, hulu continues to perform. It was the number two video site in the quarter and I covered the impact of the gain in the impairments that we had in the business. So if you look third-quarter year-to-date, NBCU reported op profit of $1.7 billion, down 27% in line with the industry.

Next is Technology Infrastructure. John Rice and the team delivered revenues of $10.2 billion, down 11% and segment profit of $1.7 billion was down 8%. You can see the business results on the bottom left. The quarter was driven by another strong result in aviation, offset by continued pressure in health are and transportation.

Aviation, I'll go through some details. Third-quarter orders of $4.5 billion were slightly ahead of 2Q. They were down 19% year-over-year. Major equipment orders of $1.9 billion were down 37%. We had a $1 billion of commercial engine orders and $900 million of military orders and the strong backlog here continues to bode well for the future. The major equipment backlog ended the quarter at $20.7 billion. It is only down 1% versus last year and down 3% from Q2.

Service orders in total were up 1%. Commercial spares of $18.6 million a day were down about 8% and this was offset by a parts distribution order we had with Aviall to get the total orders up and commercial overhauls were down 4% in the quarter. Revenue was down 6%. We shipped 456 commercial engines, which were down 16%, partially offset by 253 military engines, which were up 38%. A similar profile to what we have had all year and service revenue was down 2% reflecting the impact of the lower spare shipments.

On that, revenue op profit was up 16%. We had 4 points of margin growth here driven by pricing, which was up 4% and services productivity, which was partially offset by the lower volume that I mentioned. So as we look forward with the slowing service rates, orders rates and the lower engine delivers, we wouldn't expect to continue to outperform at these levels, but they have had a great year so far.

Healthcare reported orders of $3.9 billion, were down 9%, down 7% organically. You can read about this every day, about the pressures in the healthcare market. Equipment orders were down 13%. In the US, the orders on equipment were down 21%. In non-U.S., the orders were down 8% or 4% FX-adjusted, some impact from the dollar in the quarter.

The pressure was pretty much across all the productlines. CT, MR, x-ray, healthcare IT, clinical systems were down double digits. Life sciences was flat and services was up 5% if you exclude the HCIT impact. China DI orders were a bright spot, up 28%. With those orders, revenue was down 9%. Equipment was down 11% and services were down 6%, but flat organically. So op profit of $508 million was down 20% driven by the lower volume, some price pressure and negative productivity. And when you look at the environment here, between the economy and the legislation uncertainty, this just continues to be a really tough healthcare environment.

We are going to have an analyst meeting. We are pulling up the RSNA meeting and it will be held in New York City next Tuesday and Trevor and JoAnna can get you the details on that. So we will give a nice review of the healthcare business next week.

For transportation, third-quarter orders of $637 million were down 38%. Equipment orders remain very challenging and the North American railroads have significant overcapacity. There are still about 5000 locomotives parked. That does impact service orders, which were down 43%. And in the quarter, revenues were down 23% driven by both equipment revenue being down and service revenue being down. So op profit was down 31% driven by those volume declines.

The entire Tech Infrastructure segment is really executing a strong cost-out program in a tough environment and one other bright spot about this, if you break out the services businesses here, service op profit was up 10% for the segment and the quarter.

And finally, energy. John Krenicki and the Energy Infrastructure team had another very strong quarter. Revenues of $8.9 billion were down 9%. Segment profit of $1.6 billion was up 11%. You can see the business results on the bottom left for both energy and oil and gas delivery, double-digit growth. Energy had $6.5 billion of orders. They were down 25% versus last year, but flat with Q2 and equipment orders, if you look quarter-over-quarter, from Q2 to Q3, they were up 15%. So it reflects the dynamic that Jeff talked about on orders.

Thermal orders of $1.1 billion were down 46%. We received orders for 23 gas turbines versus 33 last year in the third quarter. That included 15 units for the Iraq order, about $600 million. We still have 25 more units to book for the Iraq order, which is probably going to be in 2010. Thermal backlog at 7.1 billion is down 1% from Q2. Wind, we had $1.3 billion of orders. That is now 43%, but again up 2.5 times from Q2. The wind backlog stands at $3.8 billion and the good news in the third quarter, the stimulus investment tax credit guidelines were finalized and that will help with new wind orders as we look forward.

Service orders were up 9% driven by energy services up 16%, partially offset by water and nuclear service orders, which were down 5%. So revenue for the business was down 11% driven by that lower thermal volume. We shipped 16 gas turbines in the quarter versus 50 last year, but pricing was up 4%. We shipped 935 wind turbines versus a little over 1000 last year with pricing up 5% and service revenues were up 9% driven by the growth in contractual services and transactional sales. So op profit was very strong, up 11% driven by that strong pricing and services growth partially offset by the lower equipment volume.

Oil and gas also had another solid quarter. Oil and gas is seeing some good pickup in orders. Orders of $2.1 billion were up 1%, up 7% when you adjust for the impact of the exchange. Equipment orders of $1.3 billion were up 6% and up 13% FX, driven by $500 million of LNG orders for the Gorgon project in Australia. We are seeing a lot more discussion about large orders in the LNG segments, so that is good news going forward. The equipment backlog of $6.9 billion was up over $400 million versus the quarter, second quarter and service orders were down 5%, but flat ex FX.

Revenues in the quarter were up 3% driven by strong volume. We had good petrochemical and refinery equipment deliveries and service revenues were down 2%. In total, the op profit was up 11% driven by that volume growth and the price. So overall, another great quarter for the Energy Infrastructure team and with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith, thanks. Now returning to the 2009 framework, just recapping where we are year-to-date. If you look down the list, Infrastructure, which is both energy and technology put together, year-to-date, are up about 3%, in line with really our expectations and we continue to have good backlog and service strength in that segment.

NBCU has been performing in line with their industry, but below our original expectations. We said that GE Capital would be profitable for the year and third quarter year-to-date, we have earned $2 billion. C&I is actually better than expectations. We expect strong positive growth in both 3Q and 4Q.

So if you look at third quarter, we have earned $0.75 while substantially restructuring and investing and lowering the cost of the Company and we plan to do more restructuring in the fourth quarter. So we are executing well against our framework and we want to keep improving our position for 2010 and beyond.

So to summarize on the last page, the global environment has definitely improved. It has definitely gotten better. We are expecting a gradual recovery, but we see more interest and even long cycle orders today and things like that. So the feel is definitely better. Overall, we have got very solid operating execution versus our outlook for this year. We have dramatically strengthened funding and balance sheet and the balance sheet at GE Capital. The GE parent is really accumulating cash and the work we have done on industrial cash has been significant. So we really feel great about achieving our safe and secure objective that we had really set out earlier in the year.

We have got a highly valuable $174 billion industrial backlog. I think the service model is really standing the test of time through this downcycle and equipment margin expansion has really been proven throughout this year. So we have got capital available to play offense and we will continue to invest for long-term growth. And I think we are well-positioned for the environment that we expect for 2010 and beyond. So with that, Trevor, let me turn it back to you and let's take some questions.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great, thanks, Jeff and Keith. Noelia, we are ready to take questions from our audience now.

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. Just first a question on some of the details on GE Capital. Do you guys have the interest income number handy from the income statement? I know we don't get the breakdown of revenues until the 10-Q, but just wondering if you have that number.

KEITH SHERIN: I will give you that in the 10-Q.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. You talk about the $700 million of improved margin going forward. How quickly should we expect that to work its way through the income statement? I guess I am just wondering what are the net interest dynamics that we should expect as this freshly priced book rolls on over the next, I guess, year and a half.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the -- the $700 million you are referring to in the charts, Steve?

STEVE TUSA: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, that is the -- that is actually the cost to carry the extra cash we're carrying.

STEVE TUSA: Oh, sorry.

KEITH SHERIN: That is a drag on our positive. So that is the quantification of the cost of having this extra cash in advance.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, you mentioned along the lines a 3.5% or 3.3% ROI. I mean how quickly do we start to see that because clearly revenues were weaker this quarter? That may have been impairments or losses, but I am just wondering how we should think about the net interest margin going forward.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think you're going to continue to see that on a -- quarter-over-quarter, we will continue to be under pressure. When we are underwriting $7 billion of new commercial volume at 3.3 ROI against a commercial book of $300 billion of assets, it is going to take awhile for that to blend in and have a positive. We do expect to continue to see pressure on net interest margin for the foreseeable future here. I don't know when it is going to turn, but it is a positive in terms of new pricing we are putting in. But if you think about the magnitude of it, it is going to take a while for it to have an impact, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. And then just in moving parts on Real Estate, from the loss you had last quarter to the loss you had this quarter, is that all impairments or is there something else that was pressuring that number?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. It think if you look at the Real Estate page that I went through, there were two components. First, we did have a couple hundred million dollars of impairments. And the second is we had about $515 million of increased reserves. And as I said, we went through a complete review of the debt portfolio in the quarter. That happens twice a year in the first and the third quarter. So I think we are through that for the fourth quarter for the debt portfolio. We will have to see, as we look at the total value of the equity portfolio in the fourth quarter, what that does for impairments. But I think the reserves that we have posted in the third quarter would have been extraordinary or above what the normal run rate is just based on the fact that it is 100% review property by property using new third-party assumptions. And obviously updating from the first to the third quarter, the environment didn't get better in that period, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: Right. And then one last question. You guys didn't mention the guidance for new equipment revenues next year down 10 to 15. Are we still sticking by that or has anything changed on that front?

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, I still think that is a good number for next year. I think the activity in the third quarter just bolsters that if anything. The fact that the orders have come back and so I think that is still a good assumption for next year.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. The 2.8% coverage number is definitely a sequential improvement, but where does that number need to go? I mean do you have a target? Is it just something you talk about with the auditors once a quarter? It's tough to put context around it just because, if you look at the banks, they use much, much higher numbers.

KEITH SHERIN: I think you've got to take a look at the details of the information that Jeff Bornstein presented. When we compare ourselves to the banks, we have a dramatically different book in terms of our consumer versus commercial mix in terms of our global mix and certainly in terms of the types of assets we have in the Real Estate business. Those would be the three major regions reasons for a difference between their total provision percent and ours.

We do not have a specific number. We put the reserves out that we need to based on the embedded losses in the book every quarter per the accounting. And we had originally set out this year and said that we thought that the reserve coverage would go over 2% as part of the total year and we have achieved that through the third quarter. So there is not a specific number. We review our reserves every quarter with our auditors and we don't have a specific number. It is based on how is the portfolio performing, what are delinquencies doing, what are non-earnings doing and what reserves do we need based on the book performance.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure. I mean just to kind of follow up on that a little bit, I mean you are building book value, which is good, but some would argue that you have an opportunity as you are building book value to really take provisioning up and be extra conservative. You can always obviously reverse down the road if it proved the other way. I guess what I kind of don't understand --.

KEITH SHERIN: I live in a world with accounting guidelines and rules and we follow them to the T, I can tell you that.

SCOTT DAVIS: Yes, no, I totally understand that.

KEITH SHERIN: It is not an exercise and we will just book some extra reserves. There is a very thorough process and a very thorough review that goes into this every quarter.

SCOTT DAVIS: No, I get it except the banks seem to be able to find a way to add a couple billion dollars here and there to reserves. So just are they working on different accounting rules or is it just that you find yourselves to be more conservative?

KEITH SHERIN: I am not going to comment on what the banks do versus what we do. I just know that what we do is we follow a very rigorous process every quarter and we have got a lot of oversight on it and we are trying to make sure that we are getting it right every quarter. The teams have every incentive to make sure they get it right.

JEFF IMMELT: I'll just add to that, Scott. I think the transparency around GE Capital, we believe in that. Another meeting in December after July and March, so we want -- we want our investors to see what we are doing and what the assumptions are and stuff like that.

SCOTT DAVIS: Yes, no, no. I get it. I am just trying to reconcile the difference. Last quick question here on -- backlog is up $4 billion. It looks like -- do you guys calculate kind of a book-to-bill number? It looks like it would still be fairly negative even though backlog is up. Is there some sort of number that you tend to use? And another way to ask the question is kind of when would you expect book-to-bill to be approaching 1?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, if you look at the orders chart that we showed you in here today, you can see what the -- if you separate equipment from services, Scott, you can just look at the services or the equipment revenues versus equipment orders. The backlog on equipment went down $1 billion. So you are in the 85% book-to-bill on an equipment basis, something like that. I think we have got to see what the fourth quarter looks like, as Jeff showed you. We think sequentially the fourth quarter is going to have higher equipment orders. Originally, earlier in the year, we thought we could end the year with somewhere around a $45 billion backlog. It could be better.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citi.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you very much. Good morning, everyone. I wonder if we could just talk about the portfolio a little bit. Obviously I am sure your hands are tied somewhat around what you can say around NBCU. But Jeff, just looking at the big landscape here, today, you have kind of shown a recommitment to GE Capital or reaffirmed the commitment. We have got the very credible sounding speculation on NBC. There is talk of the Areva T&D assets, there is talk of securities. So it is a complicated company; there is always a lot of balls in the air, but it looks like there is a lot more balls in the air than normal right now. And I just wonder if you could give us some view of how we should think about the portfolio say three or four years from now? Really what the Company might look like and the path to get there?

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, again, let me just try to put it in context because I want to kind of stay focused on what is known. I would say if you think about GE, we have got a strong, long-lasting commitment to infrastructure. You see talk about Areva and other investments we have made there and that is very important for the Company going forward.

I think with GE Capital, the vision we have expressed is that GE Capital is going to be smaller, more focused, high return, connected to the core, things like that and we continue to execute along those lines. A lot of the speculation has been on NBCU and in some ways, (inaudible) has been speculation on NBCU for a long time.

The way I would say is the Company has got a lot of cash, so we are in great shape overall. NBCU is a great franchise. It has consistently delivered income growth and cash prerecession. So it has been a solid performer. I think we have always evaluated our portfolio and I think, in the context of what I have talked about, that we expect this to be a reset world and it is a good time to be thoughtful about the portfolio. I really do mean that.

In the case of NBCU, Vivendi has been a great partner. They have got a window every year to really review their options for NBC and this year, we just wanted to be ready for several scenarios. One might be an IPO or another strategic partnership like the one we have had actually with Vivendi.

So I don't have a specific pronouncement or a specific need for cash and look, in many ways, we plan to operate NBCU over the long term or partner if that accelerates the growth of the franchise. So I just think -- I wouldn't look at this as that much more than what we have done in the past. I think GE Capital we've talked about, infrastructure we've talked about and NBC is the one of that is receiving the most attention right now. And to a certain extent, that is logical just given the process that Vivendi goes through each year.

JEFF SPRAGUE: As we think about the potential to perhaps do more M&A over time, I think you would probably agree that kind of the M&A track record on the buy side of things has been kind of mixed over the last five to seven years or so. I just wonder as you think about moving forward from here is there a change in focus, a change in how you measure these sorts of things, planning for synergies, planning for growth. Just anything we can kind of get our arms around when we think about kind of the next wave of capital allocation?

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I would say, Jeff, that we want to be disciplined around the capital that we have. I think if you look at the franchises we have in aviation, in healthcare and the big infrastructure businesses that we have, we have got good strong core teams that can execute on these plans. Again, I think if we look at some of the ones that we have been mentioned around, like the Areva transmission and distribution business, we have got a great strong core team that can execute on a transaction like that.

So, look, we just want to be disciplined around all the investing that we do and there is nothing different about that.

I would say net-net, though, you know, we are going to generate a lot of cash industrially. We have got a lot of cash on the balance sheet that we have put in place to protect GE Capital. I don't think we need to do deals to grow the Company in the future.

We have got a great organic growth process, and we are only going to do them if they generate attractive returns for our investors. In some way shape or form, Jeff, that has been the philosophy we have always had.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. And I guess just one last thing, if I could, just a point of detail for Keith. Can you give us what the A&E gain is on a pretax basis?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I will have to dig it out. I think it is -- yes, for a total 100%, $550 million.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning, everyone. Keith, I want to start with the provisioning. Is it your sense, just based on market dynamics, that this sort of 2.8% number appears to be something of a cresting trend? Because I know if we go back to some of these meetings, you had thought provisions based on the commercial book were likely to rise through 2010.

I'm just wondering based on the loss experience, stability, and economy kind of where that basically sits now, particularly given the strength in coverage.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it is a great question. We are also thinking through -- you look, they are up a little bit, the provisions in the third quarter versus the second quarter. It does include quite a bit of provisioning for the Real Estate business and if you look at the GE Money business, the provisions are actually down a little bit based on the book shrinking and where delinquencies are globally.

So I don't know. We will have to see how unemployment goes. I think the Real Estate losses on the debt book, the provisioning seemed high versus a normal quarter to me. The fact that delinquencies are up a little bit in the core commercial book would say that you are probably going to have to look at additional provisions there still going forward. And it depends on unemployment on the consumer book. But I think I feel like we are at a pretty good rate here. We are within a band anyway of what the provisions are going to be and it is going to depend on unemployment and it is going to depend on what happens in the commercial cycle here.

I think Real Estate is one that is going to be over a long period of time, whether we are dealing with the debt book here. We had a big increase in reserves in the third quarter. I am not sure those are going to turn into losses. I think a lot of people are basically going to protect their equity in those properties eventually.

And another factor that I think about are things like the timing of when you realize losses. If you look at the beginning of the year and our investment securities portfolio in the insurance business, we had huge unrealized losses. That has gotten better by $3 billion in nine months.

So I think we are at a decent provisioning run rate. I think there is going to be some higher unemployment we would anticipate. We'll see how that affects the consumer book. Probably continued pressure in the midmarket book. I think the Real Estate would come down on a normal run rate. For the provisions, we will have to see where impairments go on the equity side. If you look, our 2010 framework, John, that we laid out on the base case and the adverse stress case for 2010, essentially the losses are pretty similar. Losses in impairments in aggregate are pretty similar to the 2009 book. So we may be peaking, but we are not going -- we are not planning on losses going down dramatically in the next year or so.

JOHN INCH: No, that's fair. So as we think of capital in the framework going forward -- so let's just presume there is some stability in lots of different areas with a few question marks. Your tax credits are $0.27, $0.28, I mean year-to-date versus the $0.74 the Company has put up. Is the way to think -- I am trying to wrap my mind around -- the way to think about this, that the starting point once capital is normalized and begins to return to profitability, do you have to make up that sort of $0.30 year to date, $0.27 to $0.28 year-to-date deficit to then begin to grow the Company's earnings from there? Or do the credits sort of gradually bleed off or how does that work?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the best way to think about it is, under the current legislative tax regime, in the Financial Services earnings, there is probably about around $500 million a quarter of credits related to our ability to invest in low-tax investments or in countries with lower tax or benefits from our structural financing.

So we have said all along there is probably about $2 billion a year of a structural tax benefit between GE and GE Capital globally and so the question is will legislation change. I think the fact that the credits in 2009 are higher than that reflect the higher pretax losses. I don't know whatever those are going to be based on the loss in impairments we have in GE Capital, we can absorb those with the GE earnings, that is not a problem. But hopefully what our goal is that those losses go down as you go forward here.

So I think you have got a structural amount that is a benefit that will stay in place based on the current legislative regime. And then you have extraordinary credits based on the losses that we are going through in this credit cycle and hopefully those won't be needed.

JOHN INCH: Okay, that's fair. And then just, Keith, you talked about the fixed charge covenant. Can you remind us, if you look at where things are today, right, and your expected trend of whether we talk provisions or whatever, what amount of money does the parent have to inject or may have to inject into capital just all else equal based on what you see today next year?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. As you know, it is a 10% cushion against the fixed charges in GE Capital. So roughly if GE Capital had $20 billion of interest costs, you would have to earn $2 billion pretax. In 2009, we have injected $9.5 billion of equity already. We don't anticipate any scenario where in 2010 you would put any more capital in based on the fixed charge covenant agreement.

In 2010, if GE Capital performs in a similar manner to 2009 and we laid that out at the July meeting, we would anticipate somewhere between, at the base case, somewhere close to $2 billion, up to $7 billion of capital that might be required in 2011. So I don't think there is any capital required in '10 and again, it is going to depend upon how GE Capital's performance unfolds in 2010.

JOHN INCH: Right, which is consistent with your comments you guys don't need the money or don't need money from deals or whatever. Okay, thanks very much. I appreciate it.

JEFF IMMELT: And I think if you look at the Industrial CFOA with reduced dividend, we are generating 3 -- well, in the last quarter, we generated $3 billion and that just shows the strength of the industrial company.

JOHN INCH: Right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Christopher Glynn, Oppenheimer.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Thanks, good morning. A couple more questions on Capital. So the guidance remains for Capital Finance to be profitable in the fourth quarter, but you have $2 billion earnings year-to-date. So in theory, you could lose up to $2 billion. Can you just kind of narrow a little bit the framework thinking about the fourth quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: No.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: I mean we have said GE Capital is going to be profitable for the year. We are not forecasting any quarterly guidance, Chris. I don't know why I would --.

JEFF IMMELT: And we like the way the team is executing. We really don't see any change in the way the team is executing and they continue to do a good job in the environment.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay. And then cancellations in equipment and services orders were called in significantly. Are you seeing anything by way of push-outs that could actually be a tailwind in 2010?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know about a tailwind in 2010. As we said, we had around $200 million of cancellations in the quarter, about half in aviation and half in healthcare. I think on the energy side, on the oil and gas side, I don't see it. I know the fact that the production tax credit has now been finalized and that you are getting a Department of Energy tax rebate for the wind project, that is going to be a real help to the industry, I would say. We are going to get some finalization around healthcare legislation here I think. Once that is finalized and people understand the rules, I think that is going to be a help to the whole industry and help to our business.

You are seeing some pretty good activity in oil and gas globally. I think that is a positive. I think in the aviation space, we would anticipate that the air framers are going to push out some of the production runs that they have and you would have to anticipate lower equipment deliveries in 2010. So I don't know if that is a new headwind. I think that is something that we anticipate we would be planning on, Chris.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, but services push-outs, you haven't really seen much of that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think you're seeing it in the aviation spares rate. You see the aviation spare rate go from about 10% up in the first half down to 8% in the third quarter. I think people are definitely trying to conserve their cash and push their maintenance event to the latest possible point for them. But locomotives again, with all of the parked locomotives, you can see that in the business, in the locomotive business and energy is going the other way. I mean I think people are really utilizing their equipment, overutilizing their equipment. And with gas prices where they are, that has been the go-to place for incremental power generation and that is a positive for that business.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: Okay, and last one, can you estimate how long you kind of have this built-in services backlog growth from the prior equipment cycle emanating from that?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know. I think there is one indicator I would say. We have grown our aircraft engine installed base so dramatically over the last 15 years that 40% of the engines in the fleet haven't even hit their first maintenance event. It is just a massive installed base that as there are flight hours, there will be service revenues. And again, you're not going to predict a quarter, but if you look forward, that is an incredible installed base that is going to generate a lot of cash flow for us.

The second thing I think about is the F turbine technology from the bubble from the 2000 period. They are all coming into their second maintenance cycle, which is a heavier maintenance cycle than the first one. So we have built a massive installed base of F technology and they are using those units very aggressively, so that is a positive as well. Those will be the two biggest indicators I think about. For the medium term and long term, those are very positive for us.

JEFF IMMELT: And I would say that gas, natural gas pricing being low really favors our energy installed base in a massive way.

CHRISTOPHER GLYNN: That's helpful. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Steven Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning, guys. I just want to have another couple of questions on GE Capital. First, am I correct in interpreting the prior answers then that your expectations for peak charge-offs are in 2010? Middle half? Or second, third or how are you thinking about that again?

KEITH SHERIN: I hope that's right. I mean in the environment we see today, I would think that you are running at a rate that is pretty high. You are going to have a little pressure from unemployment. I don't know how -- how will that change the consumer loss provisions? Right now, they actually went down a little bit in the quarter. Net charge-offs were down a little bit in dollars because the portfolio -- the consumer is definitely retrenching a little bit, delevering.

I think on the commercial side, continued pressure in the midmarket for us for a period of time. You saw non-earnings go up about $700 million. Is it dramatically different? I don't think so. And then I think the one question is how long and over what period of time will this real estate cycle play out. So I hope that happens the way you outlined it. In all our long-term modeling, we know that -- is it 2010?

JEFF IMMELT: Delinquencies are leveling. You just look at the charts. And I would say even in Real Estate, there has been, I don't know, $50 billion or $60 billion raised by REITs and other funds. We see some of that starting to bleed through into the market. So there is liquidity. I think delinquencies seem to be leveling, but it is hard to call exactly, Steven, when that is going to take place.

KEITH SHERIN: Okay, you know that when we look at this portfolio, just with the passage of time, somewhere between 2011 and 2012, these loss provisions are not going to be at these levels. A normal loss provision at a $650 billion balance sheet here was around $3.5 billion. So we have got to work our way through it, but this is going to turn and it is going to be positive for us.

STEVEN WINOKER: And with markets stabilizing, losses trending better than the Fed base case, why not deploy more cash into the market where you're getting great pricing? And how are you thinking about that in terms of the right level of conservatism as opposed to letting capital have a little more leeway in parts of the business that you like?

KEITH SHERIN: Mike and the team have a green light on their core commercial finance activity, on the middle-market activity, on the things that are connected to GE. There is no question that we have got a green light on that and on things that are not core and things that we are going to have as a smaller percentage of the portfolio going forward, we are being very disciplined on it, even if there is an opportunity. So I think it is around what did we define as the core of GE Capital and what is important to us where we have a competitive advantage going forward. They have a green light.

Right now, there is not an abundance of demand for CapEx. I think people are cautious in the midmarket. We do have the capital, we are putting it to work there. But again, you have got to have really more demand to say, oh, gee, let's triple down on some of these areas. So I think it is going to take a little bit of the economy swinging to be able to really put more capital to work in some of the core parts. In other parts, we are being very supportive and aggressive.

STEVEN WINOKER: And on the industrial side, the organic growth rate I think was down 8% versus down 5% last quarter. I think I am correct in that. Is that getting -- as you think about that getting worse, how does that turn looking forward and how much of it is pricing, offset by pricing actions that you've taken this quarter, particularly in places like aviation?

KEITH SHERIN: Pricing, as we said, was pretty positive. I think Jeff mentioned it. If you look at the dynamics of orders versus shipments and the backlog position that we think we will end the year with and if you could have industrial revenue down 10% to 15%, you are going to have organic revenue declines in 2010. So I don't have a quarterly profile up for that, but as an overall view for the year, that would be a framework that -- we are just about to go into our budget sessions. We are going to go in and do detailed operating reviews of all the teams and we will have a better update of that for you in December. But right now, that comment that we had about revenue being down 10% to 15% on the industrial side is the way we think about it.

JEFF IMMELT: The other thing I would say, Steven, a lot of what drives that is long cycle businesses. We were outperforming let's say early in the downturn. I think the thing that has been pretty consistent has been services and that, again, I think provides, always provides the really underpinning for our industrial profitability. And that I think has performed pretty well through this entire cycle.

KEITH SHERIN: It is a great point, when you look at the equipment services mix, if you think about the last three years, we have been talking about building the installed base and we've had negative productivity, negative op profit because equipment growth was growing three times faster than the services revenue. That has really turned in 2009. We will probably continue in 2010. The revenue and equipment third-quarter year-to-date is down 11% and the revenue and services is basically flat and the op profit is positive in services. So I think it shows the strength of this installed base and the services model.

JEFF IMMELT: We took a lot of beatings from you guys the last few years while we were growing this installed base, but I have to say it does show the robustness of the business model.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Keith, I was wondering if you could help calibrate some math here, Keith, on the prior commentary of industrial operating profit ex C&I, ex restructuring kind of flat '09 versus '08. I guess I am not hearing anything to change that framework. Is that correct?

KEITH SHERIN: I think for the total year, it is pretty close. Remember the one thing you got to add in there is the industrial taxes because the Industrial segment profit is on a pretax basis. So that is a little complicated, but overall, third-quarter year-to-date, it is down 7, but in the fourth quarter last year, we had quite a bit of restructuring and on a total year basis, we are going to be probably closer, depending on how much restructuring we do in the fourth quarter.

TERRY DARLING: I guess just thinking on a pre-restructuring basis, which I think is the way the framework was calibrated previously, I think that it implies a -- if you look at the year-to-date on that and back that out, sort of what the fourth-quarter sequential improvement implies. You are typically up very sharply in Industrial profit 4Q versus 3Q, but it looks like $1.5 billion sequential improvement. I just wonder if I got my math right there.

KEITH SHERIN: You are talking about the Energy Infrastructure plus Tech plus the NBC category, not the restructuring category?

TERRY DARLING: Yes. I mean I thought the framework of flat ex restructuring, ex C&I --.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, up top. We showed you that. I mean if you look at 3Q year-to-date, it is up 3% for the Infrastructure businesses and then media has performed less favorably than what we thought this year. It is clear and overall, right now, 3Q year-to-date, we are down 3%. So I think we are not giving guidance on a quarterly basis or an annual basis, so we'll see how the thing plays out. You can see the framework 3Q year-to-date where we are and we will have to see how it plays out in the fourth quarter.

TERRY DARLING: And then I guess sort of a similar question, talking about GE Capital pre-provision pretax, if we go back to the slide in the July presentation, and one that Jeff rolled out at the Electrical Products Group conference, under the Fed base case, pre-provision, pretax $11.1 billion on the adverse case, $9.2 billion. If you think about what you have done year-to-date on that and maybe I am not clear as to where impairments fall on that discussion, but it suggests, under the adverse case, pre-provision moves to kind of $3 billion in 4Q and under the base case, it would be $5 billion. Can you just clarify how we should be thinking about that?

KEITH SHERIN: Not exactly sure which basis you are going off of. Basically, for the Fed base case for the total year, we had about a $400 million pretax, pre-provision loss at GE Capital finance. I think --.

TERRY DARLING: I am thinking before credit costs, I guess, Keith. So it is $11.1 billion.

KEITH SHERIN: Pretax pre-provision, we had a $400 million loss for the year in the Fed base case. And if you look, that doesn't include the costs associated with the capital corporate, which is probably about $700 million and then the fact that we are a lot smaller than we were expected to be is probably about another $500 million on that on a 3Q year-to-date. And that will probably continue as you go through the fourth quarter.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks very much.

JEFF IMMELT: So I want to reiterate one think Keith said is that we are shrinking GE Capital faster than we had planned. We think that is on strategy and as we do that, the GE Capital revenues decline accordingly. And so I think these are things we are doing proactively that are on strategy where we view this as being a positive execution point.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Just following up on that point, I mean I certainly understand the long-term strategic reasons for shrinking GE Capital, but earlier on this call, we were hearing about credit costs are likely to remain relatively high, at least for next year and beyond that, a separate issue. I mean any concern that there is less ability to handle those losses with a kind of smaller pretax pre-provisioned earnings base going forward? And it could be partially counterproductive to do that and shrink the portfolio this quickly.

KEITH SHERIN: We think we can manage through both pieces. Jeff Bornstein laid out the 2010 cases and we know the size of GE Capital that we are talking about in there and we are planning on doing that. I think you have seen some of the positives for us in terms of the lower costs. That has certainly been better than what we laid out. We started with $2 billion and we're getting close to $3.5 billion to $4 billion of improvement in SG&A. We do have some benefits from some of the acquisitions we have done like the BAC transaction. That is a positive in terms of the total earnings for the Company. And we are going to have to work our way through the losses and impairments. We think we can do that based on the size of GE Capital and manage this thing in a very safe and secure way. We will give you more details of that in the December meeting. Like I said, we are just going to go into the operating plan for next year with all the teams and Jeff and Mike Neal and Bill Cary and that team are going to do that as well.

JASON FELDMAN: And shifting over to the energy business, not surprisingly, a lot of the order activity recently seems to be coming from the Middle East. How do you see things playing out in the United States for both gas turbines and wind kind of given the regulatory uncertainty? It seems like there is going to be some stimulus boost next year, particularly on the wind side, the PTC extension. But is a real rebound in a sustained way there really dependent on what happens with the economy or is it federal energy policy that is really the big question going forward?

JEFF IMMELT: I hate to say this, but I think it is both to a certain extent. I mean energy is just one of those businesses that needs or that looks a little bit at the economy and also public policy at the same time. I think wind is certainly going to be helped in the next 18 months by the stimulus and the production tax credit and things like that. I think the great news for us is that, in almost every scenario, gas is going to be a winner. I think the finds of shale gas and the basic cost makes it, I think, the fuel of choice environmentally by our customers. And so we are seeing some good activity around gas.

KEITH SHERIN: I think wind also -- I think when the production tax credit -- as we said, there is definitely a demand for it. We need the economy to pick up a little bit in terms of energy demand in total, but I think you're going to see some pickup there.

JEFF IMMELT: But you will see -- you will see from us in the fourth quarter a couple sizable commitments on wind.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. And kind of a somewhat similar question on the medical side. I am sure we will hear more about this Tuesday and we have heard quite a bit about the emerging markets opportunities. But in the United States, again, you have got economic and regulatory uncertainty. But with healthcare reform being considered in Congress, I mean how concerned are you that some of the headwinds, at least on the imaging side, are going to wind up more permanent as opposed to -- energy seems very temporary and it will get better, we just need some certainty. With healthcare though, do you see a different kind of set of risks there?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, you guys are going to hear a lot on this next week. I think in healthcare, we are at some of the most difficult times right now, I would say, just because it is all unknown, it's up in the air. You have the combination to your point of capital markets, plus a tough economy, plus regulatory uncertainty.

What I would say is, and you'll hear this from John next week, in theory, if there is some kind of reform, the volume in theory should pick up. There will be a negative, whether it is reimbursements or some negatives in there and then wherever the stimulus goes in areas like healthcare IT and how those all wash through I think remains to be seen. But the installed base age of just basic imaging equipment is at the highest point today than at any time in our history and over some period of time, that washes through.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hey, guys. Let's get back to some blocking and tackling here. You guys talked about pricing being a benefit in a couple of areas and I was wondering if you are really talking about pricing has been embedded in backlog that was put in place in the market a year or so ago and what the outlook for pricing would be going forward?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the price numbers that I gave associated with revenue were for actual sales. If you look across the businesses, energy, new orders that I mentioned, the price index was up 4%. If you look at aviation, the price is up 2%. I think the one place where we are seeing continued price pressure, it was healthcare, was down about 3%. So I think if you look at energy, oil and gas, aviation, we are still seeing good pricing and it requires good technology. I mean it requires us to continue to invest in technology and have the product that people need and that is what is going on globally.

BOB CORNELL: Thanks. On the cash flow number, you gave us the year-to-date walk, but not specifically the third-quarter walk, at least I didn't see it. How do we get to the free cash flow number of 4.4? Are we looking at the progress payments turnaround for you, was it inventory tightness? What drove the free cash flow number up there?

KEITH SHERIN: If you look in the quarter, we had net income plus depreciation, plus some timing of tax payments, plus working capital. You put the four elements together, it is $4.4 billion. And we only had $1.1 billion of dividend payments. So this is the first quarter, as you know, where we had to cut the dividend. We did it; it is going to be helpful to the Company in total. But now we are going to start accumulating that cash and I think the teams -- we have an operating counsel, Bob, where we are meeting every month. We are looking at every element of working capital for every business. We have commitments and targets, we have plans and programs and we have a lot of oversight and review on it. The teams are doing a hell of a job on it. For the year, we have had a $3 billion year-over-year impact on progress and we have offset that with our working capital benefit.

BOB CORNELL: $3 billion negative, right?

KEITH SHERIN: Negative, year-over-year, year-over-year in terms of cash flow. The progress balances themselves have stayed relatively flat. So the teams have offset that with receivables and inventory and payables work. I think it has really helped.

BOB CORNELL: Another thing, final thing I guess from me is on the gains. You mentioned the gains in the A&E. Were there other gains of meaningful amount in places like aviation for example or even in capital?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the only -- I said we have about $50 million of gains in Real Estate. That's the only thing that I have across the portfolio, Bob. I have the A&E gain.

BOB CORNELL: And the $50 million of the Real Estate gains?

KEITH SHERIN: Right. But that is embedded in there in their total loss of $500 million.

BOB CORNELL: Absolutely. That is not a big deal.

KEITH SHERIN: Significantly less than last year.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. A couple of quick follow-ons. Just want to dig into the energy services growth, [auto] growth this quarter, 16% out. You talked about some utilization on the gas turbines and the installed fleet, kind of the second overhaul, but do you think that is sustainable? I mean do you think double-digit growth is sustainable given some of the trends you highlighted?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, third quarter for the total energy business was up 9% and as I said, services were up 16%. They have built an incredible installed base. We are coming into a better cycle on the F turbine technology in terms of continued maintenance. They have got a good CSA backlog, the customized service agreement backlog and strong global contracts. I think if you have high single-digit revenue on a period of time here, that would be great.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's helpful. And then on the consumer delinquencies, again, the trend was very encouraging. Given that the outlook for 2010, given the sort of base case economic forecast for unemployment, do you view this as a speed bump in a trend or do you view this as something more sustainable?

KEITH SHERIN: As I sit with the teams, as I sit with the teams who are working on the consumer business and I separate it between the mortgages and the rest of the unsecured portfolio, I think the team in the US here has done a hell of a job. We acted early, we cut the credit lines that were open to buy. We have increased our standards in terms of who gets credit. We have got a very disciplined approval process. We have improved our collection process and the US consumer is retrenching.

I think our entry into delinquency continues to show very favorably. Once you get into delinquency, if someone has an individual financial problem, employment or healthcare, they can end up going right through to write-off, but the entry rates are good. I think we do expect unemployment to go higher. That will have its related impact with us, but I feel very good about the progress we have made here and to me, it depends here on macroeconomics and what is going to happen on unemployment in the US. The business is running well.

The mortgage business, I think we've made a lot of progress. I think we have seen the delinquencies stabilize in the UK. That is the biggest portfolio obviously. And I think the house price information in the UK is very positive. We are doing a good job of collections and managing the accounts. If we have to go into foreclosure, we do it. We mark those things at 364 days. We mark it to the market value and we are realizing a 15% gain above those market values on houses that get to that point. So I think the loss framework is well understood and again, the delinquencies rolling over on that mortgage book are very positive for us. It is at a high level; we are going to have pressure. We are going to have to work through it, but I feel pretty good about that.

NIGEL COE: Okay. And then just finally, your interest in Areva is interesting. I mean how do view do this? Do we view this as somewhat opportunistic, a great asset on the market. It would be remiss to express interest or have you come to the conclusion that T&D or a bigger presence in T&D is critical for GE going forward?

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I think we like the energy space. The whole notion around Smart Grid and emerging markets changed the dynamics around that industry and this is an opportunity that is out there that we should really review very seriously.

NIGEL COE: Okay. And just finally, Keith, let's assume hypothetically that GE Capital pretax losses and the profile of the losses are the same year-on-year in 2010, would you expect a similar tax credit versus this year?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I mentioned earlier, I think there is an amount that is relatively structural that is close to $500 million a quarter that we would expect to continue. I think if you have pretax losses that can be absorbed by GE, those will be absorbed and that is not a problem.

This year, you remember in the first quarter, we had a one-time decision to permanently reinvest some of our overseas earnings. I don't know whether that would occur again. That was a one-time item; that was $700 million. And if you look in the Q, we are negotiating and working on settling our open years with the IRS and those could have a positive impact. I don't know when those would hit. They could settle in 2010, maybe being a partial offset to the one-time item that we had this year. But that is a lot of uncertainty. I don't know how to predict it. But those are the categories of things that I think about.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Noelia, I think we have time for about one more question.

OPERATOR: Daniel Holland, Morningstar.

DANIEL HOLLAND, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. Can you guys walk through the margin improvement that you are seeing in the Infrastructure segments and kind of quantify the benefits that you might be seeing from some of the previous restructuring activity?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think if you -- two places I would look at are the charts early in the pitch. The number one place where you see the benefits of the restructuring that we have done was on page 8. Base costs are going to be down 10% this year. It went from $44 billion to $40 billion and that is a -- that is a lot of work that the teams have done across the Company to reduce our headcount, to consolidate operations, to get common back offices, to reduce our cost footprint. So I think that clearly the restructuring that we have done in prior periods and that we have invested in this year, which is outlined on the chart, is paying off.

In terms of the margin improvement on op profit, the base costs have certainly been a part of that, but in addition, it is the equipment services mix and on a year-over-year basis through three quarters, about 60 basis points of that improvement in margin comes from the fact that the equipment services mix has turned as I went through a little earlier.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Got you. Thank you. One last question. Did you guys do any real estate transactions in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: As I said, we actually sold some properties. We sold about 72 properties for an after-tax gain of $51 million, if that is what you mean. I am not sure of what other transactions we did.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Any purchases?

KEITH SHERIN: There is no purchasing going on in the real estate space right now. The team is totally focused on managing this portfolio. We do have some obligations in some of the partnerships where we may have to provide capital on a schedule and we have some of that. But real estate was basically flat quarter two to quarter three.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Got you. Thank you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thank you, everyone, for today. I would like to close by announcing three upcoming events for everyone's calendar. As a reminder, we will host our GE Healthcare Analyst meeting on October 20 next week. Please visit our investor website for information regarding this event.

We will also host our third GE Capital event of the year. There will be a webcast held on December 8. We will send out details a little closer to that event. And then finally, the annual Outlook Investor Meeting with our Chairman and CEO in New York City will be held on December 15. Again, more information will be sent out closer to that event date and finally, the replay of today's webcast will be available this afternoon. As always, JoAnna and I are available today to take your questions. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gemeds : GE Healthcare | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i951 : Health Care | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | ereal : Real Estate Markets | gverg : Energy Department | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | c151 : Earnings | gtrans : Transport | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091030e5ag000gs
  


 HD
 Q2  2009  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,599 words
   PD
17 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric second quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. I will be your conference coordinator. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for the conference, Trevor Schauenberg, the VP of Communications.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Good morning and welcome, everyone. Joanne and I are pleased to host today's webcast. Hopefully you have the press release from earlier this morning and the slides are available via the webcast. The slides car also available for download and printing on our website at www.ge.com/investor. If you don't see it please refresh. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes, please interpret them in this light. We will be reviewing the GE press release from earlier today and have time for Q&A at the end. For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt; our Vice Chairman and CFO Keith Sherin, and our Senior Vice President and General Counsel, Brackett Denniston. Now I would like torn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Trevor, good morning, everybody. On the first page the overview, despite a difficult global economy we're pleased with our results. Overall earnings of $2.9 billion, energy and technology, infrastructure continue to perform. GE Capital is profitable and media and C&I basically were down versus last year. Our execution is very good. Our cash flow is ahead of plan. We've generated $7.1 billion from industrial cash flow year to date. We were able to do substantial restructuring in the quarter. Our margins were basically flat year-over-year and our backlog remains strong, and we announced during the quarter several investments in new products, technology centers, R&D spending in '09 is greater than '08. We're pursuing stimulus projects, so basically all the things that we said we were going to do in the last period of time we've really executed on in this cycle.

If you look at the environment and the global landscape not much has really changed from how we saw it at VPG. Unemployment, CapEx, commercial credit all remain challenging and we're seeing growth in selected markets. Parts of the globe are still robust. China and the Middle East, India, places like that. Deflation is helping our margins. Importantly customer usage helps our service business. Existing assets are being utilized early, and we get great traction in services. Stimulus was really a non factor in the first half but we see momentum building. And the capital marks are improving. And then all these things we talked about at EPG are underway.

We talked about on the next page how we were going to execute through the recession. The operating framework for the Company. I'll give you an update on where we stand on each one of these fronts. We really talked about three things. Making GE Capital safe and secure, outperforming in a tough economy, and strengthening the balance sheet. I'll go through some of the details and updates on the second quarter in the next few pages.

First on GE Capital, safe and secure, we really have made substantial progress on leverage, funding, and the balance sheet. First on long-term debt funding, '09 is done. '10 is partially done, and 2010 we plan to have done by the end of this year. We plan to issue more on guaranteed debt this year. Commercial paper is already at our year-end target, and cash plus backup lines are more than double our commercial paper. So we're very strong there. We've reduced our leverage to 5.6 to 1. Our tier one common ratio is equal to the strongest banks. Our ending net investment we've already achieved at roughly $500 billion, our '09 goal. We expect that to trend lower in the next two quarters. Our collections are strong, and we'll show you a lot of detail about GE Capital on July 28, but we feel very good about how we're executing in this cycle.

On the next page just talking about orders and backlog, we had about $18 billion of second quarter orders, slightly below first quarter and down about 23% FX adjusted versus last year. We're down about 16% year to date. The backlog remains strong. The orders were about the same level as '06 and '07. Backlog remains very strong at $169 billion.

If you just look at the orders in some context we had a record first half of '08. That was really the peak of what we saw for major equipment orders. We built $30 billion of backlog over the last four years so we really expected orders to be down even without the recession. A couple positives about where we stand with major equipment, our cancellations are very low. Our cancellations are like $100 million. So extremely low. We're holding almost $12.5 billion of progress, and a couple things that I think bode well for the next six months, on energy we're really working the commitment to order conversion. The production tax credit on wind just was clarified in the last week or so, so we think that's going to improve the order scope in the second half. And the roughly $8 billion we took in commitments in the Paris Air show will convert to orders over the next six months.

If you look at our backlog conversion rate and current orders and look forward, maybe 12 months, and you think about the fact that about two-thirds of any given year's revenue convert from backlog, and the other third represent current year orders, we look at a rough estimate for 2010 at about, with equipment he revenue down about 10 to 15%, somewhere in that range. Just because we have such extremely high backlogs right now. Meanwhile service continues to perform as a very high level up 4%, orders year to date. We had $4.3 billion of new CSA additions in the second quarter. The service story continues to be very strong. If you look at the next page we'll just take a little bit of a deeper dive on service.

Service in the quarter grew in revenue, margins, and backlog. Four of our five major service businesses will be profitable for the year. Energy, we see momentum building in the second half of the year as contractual services continue to accelerate. Oil and gas would have been positive in the first half on an FX-adjusted basis but we see good momentum in the second half. Aviation had spares orders up 10% in the second half so that bodes well for second half, and health care, we're seeing customer outsourcing, so we're see going service revenue growth there. And transportation, you guys have all read about the fact that there's probably, that the industry has maybe 5400 locomotives parked. About 30% of those are GE. Despite that our service earnings were only down about 5%. So this is about a little bit more than 75% of our total industrial net income with high visibility, well positioned for the future for 2010 and beyond. We just think from investor standpoint this just gives us great strength when we think about where we are and positioned for the future.

Quick update on stimulus and global growth. First with stimulus. We talked about at EPG having about $190 billion potential from a stimulus standpoint. Almost nothing has come out from this so far. The major buckets are clean energy, affordable healthcare, and then a scattering of other projects. We're seeing some early wins in smart grid with orders up 70%. Again, as we said, the wind tax credits have been clarified. China spending is very strong. We're starting to get some bidding on health information exchanges and we're seeing some decent activity around the nuclear business. If you look at it from a global standpoint, some of the global regions are still extremely strong. China was up 31% in the quarter, India up 46%, Middle East up 10% despite the fact that we're only beginning the Iraq shipments and order completion. So the major initiatives are underway. Our 2009 product spend is up. We think it's in the right places and we think this bodes well for the future.

The next two charts give you an update on the execution in the quarter. Again, we feel pretty good about how the team is executing. The second quarter margins were basically stable at about 16.3%. We saw good margin expansion at the contribution margin level. Our service margins expanded by three points. The head wind really in NBCU as Keith will cover in a minute come fundamentally from impairments. We have very aggressive base cost reduction, we're on track for a 10% base cost reduction for the year. Our second quarter base cost reduction was 14%. And we see a lot of this momentum carrying forward into the future. Lastly on restructuring, we've done about $5 billion restructuring since 2007. We're evaluating another $2 billion of restructuring with about a two-year payback. These are more structural and focused and again we think the more restructuring we can do this year positions 2010 for improved outlook for earnings and beyond, so that's really what the goal is, is to continue to take costs out of GE.

Lastly, cash has been a very strong story in the quarter. We generated $4.3 billion of cash in the quarter. As you all know, the GECS dividend is zero for this year. Our working capital was reduced by $2.3 billion, more than offsetting the reduction in progress payments. Historically we generate about 40% of our cash in the first half of the year, so at $7 billion it puts us well on our way to the $14 billion to $16 billion goal for industrial CFOA for the year. We have about consolidated cash of $52 billion at GE, in addition to $5 billion in the quarter. With the dividend reduced from $6.7 billion to $2.3 billion, starting in the second half, that generates really surplus cash in the second half, and we'll save $13 billion of cash in '09 and 10. So this is a great story, and again, the team is executing well. I would say we're ahead of plan here with very solid prospects for the rest of the year. With that, let me turn it over to Keith to take through the business and the business performance.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Jeff, thanks a lot. I'm going to start with the summary of the second quarter. On the left side is the summary of continuing operations. Revenues of $39.1 billion were down 17%. Down 12% ex FX. I know there's been some discussion on our revenue number. We're not giving guidance on revenues. The revenues were right in line with our Q2 expectations. Industrial sales of $26 billion were down 7%. Financial services revenue of $13 billion were down 29%. We earned $2.9 billion of net income in the quarter which was down 47%. Earnings per share, we earned $0.26, and that includes the cost of the preferred dividend, about $75 million. As Jeff covered the total cash flow from operating activities was $7.1 billion which was a great result for our first half.

For tax rates the consolidated tax rate for the second quarter 7%. This rate is down from 2008 due to significantly reduced pretax income. As you know the lower pretax income is principally driven by the GECS loss provisions. For GE the second quarter rate of 26% was flat with last year and for GE Capital because there's a large tax benefit and a pretax loss we're dividing a negative by a negative, we end up with a very high positive rate for the quarter. There were no significant one-time tax items in the second quarter as we had in the first quarter.

On the right side are the segment results. Our infrastructure businesses had $3.6 billion of segment profit. That was flat with last year. NBC was down 41%. I'll cover the details of that in a few pages. GE Capital Finance earned $590 million including $149 million pretax income which was a good result for the quarter, and C&I had $111 million, pretty good result for them. I'll cover the businesses over the next several pages. And before I get into the specific business results, I wanted to do a summary of the second quarter items that impacted the quarter.

First we had a transaction gain of $200 million benefit from a gain in GE Capital. We acquired a controlling interest in BAC, which is a leading Central American bank where we already own 49% of that. That change in control resulted in a gain that was reported in capital finance. Second, we continued to fund restructuring projects to lower our future costs. We're taking out a lot of costs in the Company as Jeff showed you on the base cost improvements. We had $0.03 of after-tax charges in the quarter. They were recorded at corporate. The reductions were aligned by business. I thought it would be helpful to just give you where the cost-out activities were. Tech infrastructure had $77 million, capital finance had $74 million, C&I had $37 million, energy infrastructure had $24 million, NBCU had $8 million, and the balance was in corporate.

And then third we had $400 million of after-tax marks and impairments which included several items. I've listed the biggest items on the right side. The largest negative items were $110 million write-down of our position in Cosmos Bank in Taiwan. We had $96 million of commercial real estate equity impairments. We had an $85 million treasury negative mark as our credit spreads improved in the second quarter, and we had a $56 million write-down of our after-tax remaining stake that NBCU held in Ion. We wrote off the rest of the stake, 100% written of now Those were partially offset by a positive mark of $139 million on our stake in Gen-Pac. So we continue restructuring, as Jeff showed you we're going to continue to do restructuring in the second half and in 2010 and in the quarter the restructuring more than offset the gains that we had which were principally the back gain in GE Capital.

I will start with a few pages on capital finance. You should be aware that we have a webcast scheduled for Tuesday, July 28, from 8:30 to 10:30 in the morning and we are going to give you a much more detailed update on GE Capital. For the quarter Mike Neal and the team earned $590 million. That was down 80% from last year but we think it was a solid quarter given this environment. Revenues of $12.8 billion were down 29%. The revenue decline was driven by lower assets. That's 12 points. As we shrink GE Capital that's had an impact on the top line. We de consolidated Penske. That was about six points. Foreign exchange, with a stronger dollar, hurt us about seven points. Assets of $557 billion were down 11%. Year-over-year assets are down $71 billion, down 5% ex foreign exchange so if you just look in the second quarter assets were down $10 billion ex exchange. So we continue to make progress with collections exceeding originations.

The business results are in the bottom left. Let me start with consumer. Consumer, you can see had segment profit of $243 million, that was down 77% from last year. The decline in earnings was driven by higher credit costs of $660 million. $200 million of lower tax benefits, partially offset by the back gain in the Cosmos write-off which I covered on the previous page. That's a consistent theme. Higher credit costs throughout each of these businesses as we go through the individual segments.

In terms of the specific consumer business I don't have these numbers on the page but I will cover three pieces. One, the US consumer, two, UK home lending, and then three, our global banks. US consumer had a very strong second quarter. The US consumer business earned $153 million positive in the quarter. That was still down $88 million from last year, and that was driven buy higher credit costs of $190 million partially offset by lower operating costs in the business but the US consumer losses and impairments are trending below the outlook case that we showed you on the March GE Capital meeting. So a very good performance in US consumer. UK home lending had a loss of $155 million in the quarter. That's driven by higher credit costs of $293 million. We increased our reserves as a reflection of the higher delinquencies that I'm going to cover in a few pages. If you look at the total non-US mortgage losses for us globally those are trending slightly below the fed base case. There have been some recent positive signs in the UK housing market lately, but the UK book is the one out of the global mortgages that remains under pressure for us.

Our banks made $251 million in net income in the quarter, that was down 48%. Again, driven principally by higher credit costs up $190 million. If you look at the banking businesses the losses and impairments are trending above the fed base case that we showed you in March.

Moving to commercial real estate, you can see the business had a loss of $237 million in the quarter down from almost $500 million of earnings last year. The decline is driven by $275 million of higher credit costs and impairments, and $380 million of lower gains. We did sell some properties in the second quarter, for the quarter we sold 49 properties for $245 million with a small gain, $23 million. We also increased our reserves by $175 million in real estate. That's a reflection of the higher delinquencies in non earnings we're seeing. And for real estate our credit costs and impairments, if you compare to the outline cases that we did in March, they're running below the fed base case but we're still very cautious obviously about the real estate outlook. For commercial lending and leasing the business earned $233 million in the quarter, that was down 74%. Again, the earnings decline was driven by higher credit costs of about $300 million. Lower core earnings, assets are down about 14%. In terms of the loss outlook for CLL it's trending to just lightly above the fed base case. For the verticals, you can see G-Cast had another solid quarter, earnings of $286 million were up 3%. We ended the quarter with only two aircraft on the ground. In energy financial services earnings of $65 million were down 60% driven by $100 million of lower gains in the quarter.

So the portfolio quality is good there with flat non earnings. If you look overall, the summary for the overall losses and impairments for GE Capital through the first half were running just slightly below the fed base case that we outlined in March. We're also running ahead of our overall cost-out projections. For the year we expect cost savings to be more than $3 billion that we said we'd have in the first quarter earnings so the team is doing a really good job of controlling the costs. Next I'm going to turn it over to Brackett Denniston our Senior Vice President and General Counsel, to talk about about financial services regulatory reform.

BRACKETT DENNISTON, SVP, GENERAL COUNSEL, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks Keith, good morning. As many of you know the treasury issued a white paper about a month ago which outlines a sweeping proposal for financial services reform. It's probably the most sweeping proposal in US financial services history. It's main features as many of you know, are it designates the Federal Reserve Board as a systemic regulator including what the paper calls tier one financial companies. And it will be advised in that capacity by a council of regulators, the bank regulators, the securities regulators and others.

It includes consolidation of the banking regulators, the office of thrift supervision and controller of the currency but not consolidation of other agencies like the SEC and CFTC. In connection with the consolidation of banking regulators it calls for the conversion of thrifts and ILCs to national banks regulated by the national bank supervisor. It has market reform over things like securitization and credit default swaps. It includes resolution authority over big financial institutions, a bankruptcy-like process run by the FDIC. And it has very broad consumer reform regulation proposed in it including a consumer financial products commission.

Now, one of the dozens of proposals in the white paper is one that would require separating existing financial from nonfinancial companies, whether they be tier one financial companies, however that ends up being fleshed out. ILCs, or thrifts, and there's a five-year transition period. We're quite clearly opposed, as we said publicly, to this proposal. These structures were certainly not a cause of the crisis, and the proposal would also unnecessarily affect important sources of lending at a time when the country needs lending. And in the past these existing structures have been traditionally handled by grandfathering them.

We've talked to a number of people in Congress, and we've heard considerable skepticism about many of the features of the white paper, but particularly on this aspect of the white paper, and we've also heard considerable support for the idea of not breaking up the existing structures, grandfathering. Now, the proposal is of course just the beginning. And what will emerge from Congress will be quite different from what is proposed. This is often the case. Congress will take over now and it will be a long and complex process, probably lasting into 2010. At the same time, I make two quick additional points. First, we're supportive of systemic regulation, and more regulation is certainly something we prepare for. Second, nothing in the proposal changes our moving forward with a smaller more focused GE Capital. So as I said, the proposal is still early stages, and we're advocating very intensively for our point of view. I'm now going to turn it back over to Keith.

KEITH SHERIN: Thanks, Brackett. I'm going to cover a few more pages about GE Capital, volume, and asset quality and reserve levels and then wrap it up and go into the industrial businesses. The first page is about how important GE Capital is as a source of liquidity for US businesses and consumers. If you look at the first half of 2009, we've done $69 billion of volume, and these have been at attractive returns for us. The financings are critical to our customers as we continue to support them through the downturn, and more importantly, if you look all the way back since January of 2008 we've extended $155 billion of new financings to our commercial customers and $127 billion of credit to over 50 million consumers. Importantly, we're not just supporting existing customers but new customers as well. In the first half of this year we added 16,000 new commercial customers and now support 23,000 new small businesses through our retail program. So we have broad reach. We provide a lot of funding to a lot of capital that funds a lot of mid market and small and medium-sized businesses in this country. Lastly, we've maintained our leading position in larger key markets where we have deep domains. We're supporting virtually every US airline and maintaining leadership leadership position in debtor in possession bankruptcy financing, healthcare financing and energy infrastructure financing. So still a lot of lending activity going on and providing a lot of capital to the markets, especially in the US.

Next is an update on our delinquencies in non earnings. On the left side is the commercial equipment finance data. You can see the 30 plus day delinquencies for equipment are down six basis points in Q2 versus Q1. This is a positive signal obviously for the commercial book. That was driven by a decline in delinquencies in the Americas where 30 plus went from 2.81% to 2.45%. So we're very interested in watching this trend and seeing how this develops as we go through the year. That was partially offset by, we had some increased delinquencies in our Asia and European equipment books. We continue to see pressure on non earnings, up 18 basis points versus the first quarter but again the pace of that growth has also leveled off a bit. It's driven by senior secured loans where we're well collateralized.

In terms of real estate, which is not in the delinquency for the equipment bar up above, the line up above, delinquencies increased up to 4% on the real estate book and non earnings are up to 2.9%. You can see we continue to see pressure in the commercial real estate book, and then finally for the verticals the delinquency in non earnings were basically stable with Q1 which continues to perform very well.

On the right side is the consumer data, and this is really developing into the two different categories by type of exposure. We broke out mortgage, global mortgage, and nonmortgage because loss dynamics are so different. You can see the improvements in the non mortgage delinquency as the delinquency went from 6.02% in the first quarter down to 5.73% in the second quarter and that's really driven by North America. The North American delinquencies are down 14 basis points to 6.96%. We're seeing better entry rates in delinquency. It's the lowest we've seen. We're seeing improved late-stage collection effectiveness. The non earnings balance was flat to the prior quarter, and the reason the rate is up a little bit is because the balance is down. So as a percent it's a little higher, but we are getting the benefit of all the underwriting actions that we took last year as well as some seasonality benefits.

And then the second category here that you look at are the mortgage, the global mortgage assets. We continue to see growth in 30 plus delinquencies and non earnings. UK mortgage book drives most of the changes, and I'm going to cover our reserves versus non earnings in a minute. So overall in a pretty tough environment, we are seeing some leveling off in both the equipment and the US consumer delinquencies, and we're going to be monitoring those trends through the third quarter to see if we can really see that they're solid trends here as we go forward. But some positive spots in the book.

Next is an update on reserve coverage. We had a very good quarter for reserve strengthening. Our provision for losses was $2.8 billion in the quarter, and while write-offs were up $300 million to $1.9 billion we still added $900 million to our loss reserves. So a 50% increase in provisions versus the write-offs. We increased our reserves in both the commercial and the consumer book. Reserves increased by $500 million, and the commercial book increased our coverage rate to 1.13%. We increased our CLL reserves by $350 million, and we increased our real estate reserves by $175 million quarter two versus quarter one.

If you look at the consumer we increased reserves by $400 million. You can see the consumer coverage rate increased for both the US retail and the non-US mortgage. So overall coverage with $6.6 billion of allowance is up 22 basis points versus the first quarter, up 74 basis points versus year ago, and we're well on track to get to 2% plus coverage by year end.

Next is an update on how we think about the non earning assets and our reserve coverage. These are basically the same charts that Jeff Bornstein covered during the March 19, meeting. I showed you these charts for Q1 and now we've updated the numbers through Q2. The left side is commercial. Non earnings ended the quarter at $6.4 billion. It's up $1.9 billion from Q1. It represents 2.9% of our financing receivables. The bars show the benefit of being a senior secured lender. We expect $1.9 billion of non earnings to have 100% recovery. We have another $1.2 billion in some type of workout where we expect full recovery. We'll have a renegotiation, some changes to the documents and terms, and then we have another $1.9 billion where we're protected by the collateral value. Significant amount of work. Our risk teams are working to make sure they work through this loan book. At the end of the day that leaves you with what we think of as $1.4 billion of estimated loss exposure today. You can see we have 173% coverage against that with our reserves.

On the right side of the consumer non-earnings of $6.6 billion they were up over $1.1 billion over Q1, represent about 4.7% of the financing receivables. The consumer dynamics are very different between the mortgage and the nonmortgage assets so the green bar represents our non mortgage non earnings, principally the US retail business, the credit card business and retail sales finance. We have $1.7 billion of non earnings in that book. And we have $3.3 billion of reserves against it, 189% coverage. And then the remainder of the non-earnings on the global mortgage book we expect $1.5 billion of that to cure. With our underwriting positions we expect to recover $2.9 billion of exposure based on loan to value position. You remember we underwrite these at about 70 to 75% loan to value. Today they're at about 85% loan to value as house prices have declined globally and that gives us a lot of recovery value. We have some mortgage insurance that we expect to recover on leaving us with an expected estimate loss today of about $500 million, and 173% coverage without that. We believe we're appropriately reserved for non-earning loss exposure. Again, we'll cover more in detail on the 28, meeting.

So let me wrap up GE Capital with a recap of where we stand through the first half. This framework is the stress case that we outlined in the March 19, meeting. We've given you an update now on each of our major businesses, where they stand relative to the stress case. Some are higher or lower than the fed base case in terms of where we are going on credit costs but overall we're trending to slightly below the estimated fed-based case for 2009 on losses and impairments. More importantly, we've completed a number of significant actions that we said we were going to do. We're dealing with a tough loss environment and we strengthened our reserves while we've remained profitable. We've injected capital and strengthened our capital ratios. We've dramatically improved our liquidity profile with commercial paper down and cash balances up. We've completed our 2009 long-term funding. We've already prefunded over 30% of our 2010 needs. As Jeff said our plans to complete the 2010 funding before year end, in 2009 we've issued $9 billion in non guarantee debt, that's more than any other issuer, and we're shrinking our balance sheet while we're still providing a lot of credit to consumers and businesses. Finally, we've been transparent. We are going to cover more detail about GE Capital at the next update on the 28th and continue that trend.

So next let me turn to the industrial businesses and I will start with NBC. Jeff and the team continue to operate in a very challenging environment for the quarter revenues of $3.6 billion were down 8% and segment profit of $539 million down was down 41%. I think the first thing to point out is the overall performance is not as negative as it looks. I've tried to highlight that with the numbers on the right side. $200 million of the decline year-over-year was driven by two items. First, there was no repeat of the gain that we had last year from the sale of Sundance. That was about $113 million of benefit in '08. Second, we wrote off the balance of our investment in Ion which I said that was about $95 million this year. Adjusting for those two items, NBC was down about 24% in the quarter.

So if you look at operations as we go around the four different numbers on the page here, cable continues to deliver strong results. Revenue, $1.2 billion was up 3% and op profit of $595 million was up 7%, USA remains number one for the 12th consecutive quarter. Oxygen had a good quarter, Bravo had a good quarter, and the cable news channels had a very good quarter. MSNBC beat CNN in prime ages 25 to 54 and total viewers for the full quarter, first time ever. And their profit was up 8%. CNBC remains the clear leader in business news and profit was up 7%.

Broadcast had a tougher quarter. Revenues of $1.4 billion were down 9%. Op profit was down about $100 million and that was driven by lower revenues on house versus last year and higher investments that we've made in new programming. Plus the local media continues to be down year-over-year. We're very pleased with the transitions with Jimmy Fallon and Conan. They've been better and very successful. The new development that we've done for the fall shows have received very positive feedback from advertisers. And the upfront is very slow. I think everybody knows that. Basically we're planning on retaining more inventory as we go into the 2010 season.

Film did have a tough quarter. Revenues of $915 million were flat and op profit was down about $80 million. The main impact was driven by fewer significant film releases to DVD versus second quarter last year and then our second quarter movie performance was less than we expected so that was down. Parks actually had a good quarter. Parks were up 13% in out profit. They had good cost controls and they had some timing benefit from Spring Break going into the second quarter versus first quarter last year.

Digital is a very good story. Continues to grow. Hulu was the number two video site behind YouTube and we're thrilled to have Disney have joined Hulu as a media partner. Finally, as I mentioned, we took the final writedown on Ion which really impacted us. If you go back to what we said in Q1 we showed the operational view of NBC was expected to be down about 15 to 25% for the year, then the second half we expect to have favorable comparisons from not having the Olympics cost in the third quarter plus other cost reduction activities that the team has taken on to provide more offset to the advertising market and some of the pressure from film.

Next is tech infrastructure. John Rice and the team delivered revenues of $10.6 billion down 11%, segment profit of $1.8 billion was also down 11%. You can see the key businesses on the bottom left and I will start with some details on aviation.

2Q orders were $4.2 billion for aviation, down 23%. The biggest drop is in major equipment obviously with orders of $1.7 billion, down 44%. We had $1 billion of commercial engine orders and $700 million of military orders. The good news here is we still have a tremendous backlog. The major equipment backlog ended the quarter at $21.3 billion, up 5% versus last year and only down 1% from the first quarter. Service orders were up 5% in total. Commercial spares of $20.4 million a day were up 10%. And we had very strong contractual service sales from both Southwest and US Airways partially offset by some lower overhauls on CF6 cargo engines. None of the $3 billion engines or $5 billion service wins that were announced at the Paris Air show have flown into orders yet as Jeff mentioned.

For the quarter revenue was down 6%, we shipped 472 commercial engines which was down 19%. That was partially offset by 239 military engines which were up 49%. Service revenue overall was down 1% reflect the impact of higher contractual services, mostly offsetting the lower freight overhauls. And op profit was up 1% with 1.4 points of margin growth in the business driven by services up 13%. We also had $79 million last year of revenue share benefits that didn't repeat. And without that the op profit for the entire segment would have been up 11%. For healthcare, reported orders of $4 billion were down 11% down 7% organically. They were impacted by the stronger dollar. Equipment orders were down 15% with five points of decline from the stronger dollar as well. The US orders were down 13% and the non-US orders were down 7% on an FX adjusted basis.

The pressure was pretty much across most of the major product lines. CT, MR, x-ray, clinical, and MDX all down double digits. We did see better orders performance from life sciences, up 4%. FX adjusted surgery had a very strong quarter, up 37%. Service orders were up 2% on an FX adjusted basis. China was up 11%, India was up 19% so we see some strength around the globe but overall revenue for the business in total was down 9%. Equipment was down 15% along with orders and services were down 6%. That would have been flat on an organic basis. Op profit of $590 million was down 21%. We really were hit by the lower volume. We had some negative price, about 1% in the quarter. Negative productivity and services op profit was up 2% in the quarter in that number. It's just a tough healthcare environment that the team is dealing with obviously.

If you look at transportation second quarter orders of $600 million were down 50%. Equipment orders are just going to remain challenging as the North American railroads have significant overcapacity as Jeff mentioned. Service orders were also affected by that, they're down 38%, driven by both tough comparisons from some good parts orders last year as well as the idle locomotives. Revenue down 11 driven by lower locomotive deliveries. We had 119 this year in the quarter versus 165 last year. Services revenue were down 6%. So team did a good job managing all that. The op profit was down only 2% as we improved margin rate by two points offsetting lower volume with favorable price, more deflation and good productivity. The entire tech infrastructure segment is executing pretty strong cost out, doing a lot of restructuring in a tough operating environment, and even with that tough environment, the service op profit for the overall business was up 7%, showing the strength of the services model here.

Next is energy. John Krenicki and the energy infrastructure team had another very strong quarter. Revenues of $9.6 billion were down 1%. That's up 4%, if you adjust for the impact of FX in the quarter. And segment profit good leverage, $1.8 billion, up 13%. If you look at energy, the orders of $6.5 billion were down a third versus last year. But basically flat with the first quarter. We had $1.2 billion of thermal orders. They were down 60%. We received orders for 26 gas turbines versus 58 last year in the second quarter. And that included 10 units for Iraq which totaled about $400 million. We still have 30 more units to book as orders for the Iraq order. The thermal backlog is $7.1 billion, that's down 10% from the first quarter. Wind orders of $500 million were down 60% as well as customers basically are looking for the finalization on the stimulus terms and conditions which happened last week. I think that's going to be a positive as we go forward with a lot of wind commitments that need to be finalized. Wind backlog at $4.2 billion is still strong. Aero orders of $262 million were down 69%. Again, tough comparisons last year but definitely slower. Service orders were up 12% driven by energy services up 8% and wind, aero and nuclear in total up 21%.

For the quarter revenue and energy was down 1%, up 2% when you adjust for FX. Equipment was up 5% and services were down 6%. We shipped 42 gas turbines versus 44 last year but pricing was up 8%. We shipped 680 wind units versus 672 last year with pricing up 6%. Service revenues as I said were down 6%. Two things here, it was driven by tough comparisons in the power adjacencies business. That was up 23% last year. And it was down this year and water services were down 18% if you look at the core energy contract service business that performed very well with revenues up 11%. Op profit was up 15% and that was driven by strong pricing as I mentioned and good productivity. We had 2.8 points in margin rate growth in the energy business.

Oil and gas had another solid quarter. Orders of $1.9 billion were down 10%. But it's flat when you adjust for foreign exchange. We had $390 million of orders for natural gas compression equipment. That's up four times over second quarter last year, we're seeing a lot more activity in the natural gas area. And that partially offset the lower orders that we are going to see in pipeline and refinery markets. Equipment backlog ended the quarter at $6.5 billion, that's up $170 million versus the first quarter. Still growing the backlog in oil and gas. Service orders were down 6% FX adjusted driven by tougher comparisons from last year in both parts and upgrades.

For the quarter the revenue was up 3%. That was strong volume growth in the petrochemical and refinery equipment segments. Service revenues were down 6% but up 5% if you look at the FX flat year over year. Op profit up 11%. Great volume and great productivity partially offset by the negative foreign exchange impact in the business. Overall another great quarter from the energy infrastructure team and if you look, another good service story, services revenues were down a little bit in the quarter and op profit was up 3%. So the service story really plays out in both the tech infrastructure and the energy infrastructure segments. Let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith, thanks. Just want to wrap up with two charts. One just kind of recaptures the Company framework. When I look at energy infrastructure, technology infrastructure and NBCU, and kind of take a look at the second half and all the market dynamics we see we see these as earnings being about flat for the total year of 2009. I think at last December we gave a range of zero to five. The markets are tougher but I think the teams are executing very well in this environment. So we see about flat earnings year-over-year. And capital finance, profitable in 1Q and 2Q. Keith outlined where we stand versus the various credit cost cases and we've got, I'd say building confidence around capital finance. And from a corporate standpoint, C&I is performing better than we thought and seeing pretty good momentum into the second half. So we'll continue to do restructuring within the context of the framework, but the team is really executing pretty well in this environment.

And then looking forward, I think we see kind of more of the same. I think we see lower equipment sales but very solid service position with very high margins. Continue to execute on cost out and increasing margins. And we think we'll see more benefit from the global stimulus as we look at the second half of the year. We will continue to be in a tough credit loss environment, but we'll have a profitable GE Capital and the funding is solid and originations are strong. C&I is better and more restructuring. So I think the combination of services, productivity, margins, strengthening GE Capital, this I think is a good context for GE as we look at the second half of the year and into 2010.

Then just to wrap up, we continue to build a strong Company for the future. I think if you look at what we've done in the last three months we've significantly strengthened GE Capital, liquidity is in great shape, funding is in great shape. We've strengthened the capital ratios. We've increased reserves, we're generating profitable business. We're able to play offense, and we are really committed to GE Capital, all the things Brackett said, we are strongly committed to our point of view and to a smaller, but still strong GE Capital business. We're running GE with intensity both on a productivity and cash basis. I think the cash story is very strong and the margins are still at 16.4%, very high. Investing in technology and service, we've got a service backlog of $122 billion. We've launched new products like batteries. Our technology budget is up. We're winning globally when you look at China, India, and the Middle East. We're well positioned in some of the big themes that I think will mean that we're working on the right things vis a vis stimulus. I think the Company is stronger and we're well positioned for this challenging environment. So Trevor let me turn it back to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, Jeff. Let's open up to questions now.

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) Our first question comes from the line of Terry Darling with Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, good morning.

JEFF IMMELT: Good morning Terry.

TERRY DARLING: Jeff, you had mentioned 2010 equipment revenue maybe down 5 to -- 10 to 15%, if I got that correct, and I'm wondering if you might make a comment on how would you feel about the flow-through on that as well as any thoughts on the services side of the business at this point?

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, it's still early days to think about '10, but again, we make, as we said, 75% plus of all industrial earnings come from services. When I look at services we see backlog building, we see good customer usage rates, things like low natural gas prices mean people that are working their gas turbines harder, good productivity and things like that. Then I think when you look at the equipment side, a combination of restructuring -- relatively low margins on the original equipment sales, very aggressive restructuring that we're doing plus good margin momentum, we think it's a good one-two punch. Good service growth, good service revenue and good productivity.

TERRY DARLING: Sounds like on the services side, 2010, there's nothing that you see that would be obvious at this point to drive that business from the profit perspective when you layer in the restructuring efforts you have to drive that down dramatically, just based on what you see right now?

JEFF IMMELT: Terry, we're kind of out of the guidance business, and thinking about 2010 but I sit here and say we've got $122 billion of backlog, we've got really young -- we've got the most energy efficient fleet and aircraft engines and gas turbines. We're as well positioned as we can be in the type of environment that we see today, really. With great visibility, and the service margins were up 3 points in the second quarter. So we've got -- we're seeing the productivity fall through. We're seeing the restructuring fall through. And we've got the assets we have are being worked pretty hard.

TERRY DARLING: Just try to sneak a quick one on second half tax rate industrial, Keith, can you help us with that? . That 26% rate, where we ought to

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, if you look at the way the accounting rules work on tax we're supposed to be booking to what we estimate as our total year rate to be. If you look at 26% for the half that's a pretty good estimate of what we think we'll have for the year for the industrial rate.

TERRY DARLING: I think you'd call that 29% last quarter. Is that just mix geographically?

KEITH SHERIN: We have some lower pretax earnings, so that does in some way affect the rate. We're getting a little less benefit from some of our global funding structures because of interest rates and FX, but, no, it's going to be -- last quarter we had a little bit of a higher rate in the industrials remember because the percent of GE Capital was so low in the first quarter. So that raised it versus what we thought the annual estimate was going to be. At the half that's a better estimate.

TERRY DARLING: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Scott Davis with Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Scott.

SCOTT DAVIS: When you have an order book that softens like this, what impact do you start to see on price?

KEITH SHERIN: If you look right now, we've got a really strong story in the order book, in the backlog on pricing. If you look in the quarter energy business had 5% price up, oil and gas had 1% price up, Energence was up 3, healthcare was down 1, consistent with where they've been, actually lower than what they've been last few years. Overall for the Company we had 1.9% price up. So you are seeing a very strong backlog that we're working off of. In terms of orders as we go forward, for energy in the quarter, they were up 2.9%. Oil and gas was down about 1%. Engines was up 10%. And healthcare had pressure about 1 to 2%. So I don't see anything abnormal yet. I think you've got to worry about supply and demand dynamics as you go forward but right now we've got a very healthy backlog and we're protecting that. And the orders in the quarter were pretty good.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Good. I'll ask a similar question for GE Capital. You talked about higher credit costs but obviously you're booked I think a 30-year book reprices every year. What's the typical lag, I guess, between kind of your credit costs going up and your pricing being able to follow and strengthen to match that?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, our pricing right no is already up. Everything that we did in the quarter, we're getting 2.5 to 3 return on investment sort of margins on the volume that we did. We did about, in total, $35 billion of unbooked volume in the second quarter at about a 3 ROI. The one-third of the book turning used to be at higher volumes than we're doing. I think you're probably going to deal with a little bit longer time frame before you get the book to turn based on the fact that the volumes are down 40% year-over-year, Scott. But the margins that we're getting today, with the estimates of both our funding costs and our credit costs are extremely strong, and that's because cost of capital is going up for everybody, and people need capital, and we're providing it.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nigel Coe with Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. You covered a lot of ground in the slides. One thing you didn't mention was CIT, so obvious question, are you seeing any early impacts from the dislocation of CIT?

JEFF IMMELT: It's a little early to have any real impact on that, Nigel. We'll have to wait and see. We don't compete direct well them in a lot of places, and then there are some opportunity areas where we do have overlap. We'll have to wait and see how that plays out. I think it's a little premature to have any type of impact off of whatever they ultimately find as a resolution.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Secondly, within GE Capital, you made a pretax -- positive pretax income at GECC, a (inaudible) loss at GECS, the gap between the two was wider than I expected. Was there anything to think about in terms of why that -- why there's about a $400 million gap between (inaudible) finance pretax and GECC?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, the biggest thing on the corporate costs including treasury, those were at a pretty normal run rate for the quarter. We did have some of the costs as I showed you on the impairments were in the treasury line in the quarter.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Finally, I guess interest expense within GE Capital is big drop Q on Q. I think it's about 4 million, $5 million, is this the low point for interest expense or do you think it could actually go a little bit low from here?

JEFF IMMELT: I'm sorry, repeat that.

NIGEL COE: The interest expense within GE Capital, been a big drop. Q on Q I think it went from 5.1 to 4.5. Do you think that's as low as it goes within GE Capital or do you think the scope as going lower?

JEFF IMMELT: We'll have to see what happens with the global benchmark rates. We've had a decline in obviously all the short term benchmark rates. That's been a driver for a benefit as well as the lower debt balances that we have. So you tell me what the benchmark rates are going to be, but so fare we've had a very good experience here in terms of funding and interest costs have been favorable as you said.

NIGEL COE: Thanks a lot.

JEFF IMMELT: The other thing I'd say in the cap corp there is that $77 million I mentioned of restructuring, that's in the cap corp line as well. That may help you, Nigel.

NIGEL COE: Thanks a lot.

JEFF IMMELT: That's after tax.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Steve Tusa with JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Good morning.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Steve.

STEVE TUSA: So just getting into the, I guess zero -- flattish growth for the year now, instead of 0 to 5 in a framework, I think if I'm adding the segments up right you were down about 5% in the first half, so could you just talk about the dynamics of without giving specific guidance, maybe what gets better in the back half of the year for these various segments?

JEFF IMMELT: Why don't I start, Steve, then Keith you kick in. I'd say energy infrastructure both from a backlog and services standpoint continues to be very strong. Technology infrastructure is -- again has good productivity and sustained service growth in the second half. NBC Universal has easier comparisons and really we think the second half of NBC Universal is going to be significantly better than the first half from a run rate. I think Keith went through some of the impairments. I think you get improvement in NBC. Energy, if anything, gets better during the year. Technology is kind of more or less around the zero mark to in that range. So, I don't know, Keith, would you--?

KEITH SHERIN: I agree. NBC is a big number. We had over $200 million of impairments in the first half. We've got the $150 million loss in the Olympics last year in the third quarter we don't compare to. I think if you look at those dynamics, that's a big factor. I think services is the other factor, Jeff, if you look first half to second half we do continue to see positive outlook for services as we get into the balance of the year.

And I think the other thing I'd mention here, Steve, is we've also included in that zero, we've included a relook at the equipment levels that we're going to have, and that's factored in here. In January I kind of gave an outlook for gas turbines, wind turbines, commercial engines, military engines, locomotives, and we've included in this update that Jeff covered a view on those five categories, and I think it may be helpful to put those out there. Gas turbines in January we said we'd have 185 for the year, and right now the July estimate has 150 to 160 for the year. Some of that, Iraq has pushed into 2010. Wind turbines, we said we'd have about 2800 units for the year. We're around 2700, 2800 units, so pretty consistent there. Commercial engines, we had originally 2200 engines in the year, now we're down to 1930 as the airframers have reduced their production schedules. Even below what we had at the plan. Military engines are on track, 925 to 925, and locomotives went from 600 down to about 500. So I think included in that zero we're factoring in the fact that we think equipment is going to be a little less than we had as the original estimate and that's because of the strength of services as we go forward.

STEVE TUSA: That's very helpful detail. Just lastly, on energy and the price cost gap, do you expect that it was again a nice number this quarter, do you expect that 450 to get bigger over next couple quarters or have we kind of peaked on that, how long, going back to Scott's question how long can you hold on to that price/cost gap?

JEFF IMMELT: I think, Steve, look, our expectation is that as time goes on that there's going to be pricing pressure, and it's hard to predict right now. I think we're protected by a great backlog. But when we look at the raw material productivity that we're getting and the cost-out that our sourcing people are getting, it's going to be substantially better in 2010 than it is in 2009. We've got tremendous -- and we are able to kind of see that, so we've got really great cost down programs going. The other thing I would say, Steve, in addition to what Keith provided, I think only having -- in this environment, only having $100 million of cancellations in a quarter is pretty good. And so I think that's a real plus for investors as well.

STEVE TUSA: Great. Thanks a lot.

JEFF IMMELT: All right, Steve.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Robert Cornell with Barclays Capital.

ROBERT CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hi, everybody.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Bob.

ROBERT CORNELL: Pretty clean quarter for you guys. I'm always impressed that the fire -- with the fire hose of information.

JEFF IMMELT: Thank you.

ROBERT CORNELL: Yes. The commercial delinquencies going down was a surprise. Maybe to go back, you discuss it being America's driven, but it's sort of counterintuitive given the trouble at CIT is and that your commercial delinquencies are actually going down. Maybe you could give us some more visibility into why that's the case?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I think we've seen quite a bit of activity in that portfolio from customers delaying payments already for the last 9 to 12 months. I think if you are going to have an indication of how the commercial book is performing on the mid market business in the Americas, that's already been impacted by the economic outlook that we have had, and we're seeing those account basically already go through the first wave of what we would expect to see in terms of credit indicators, 30-day delinquency, 90-day delinquency, and then non-earning. So our credit guys are cautious about it Bob, but I think it's a good sign that we've leveled off here in the quarter. Now we've got to see whether that trend continues as we go forward, but we're -- we have real terms and conditions and rights. We don't have covenant-light loans. We don't have no-doc loans. As a result, people have to pay us, and we're experiencing the delinquency in line with the economic environment our customers are feeling. I don't know how it compares with CIT, but for us I think it's a good sign on the book and we're going to have to see how it affects us going into the second half. We've shifted so much of our front end activity into managing accounts, Bob, managing and making sure that we get our senior secured credit positions back, and I think that helps us to manage the delinquency once we get in here, but I think it's a positive sign, and we'll have to see how it comes out in the second half.

ROBERT CORNELL: Well, you certainly hear a lot of anecdotes about GE out there hitting hard.

JEFF IMMELT: We're a senior secured lender. That's how we run the business.

KEITH SHERIN: Bob, we've also originated a lot of -- we're originating a lot of business out there right now.

ROBERT CORNELL: Yes, I heard that comment. I expect we'll get into it more on the 28th call. Another point is you talked about funding outside FDIC. What are some of the indications of funding costs on that non-FDIC funding that you're looking at?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, you can see our cash bond spreads every day. We're -- they've come down since the first quarter clearly, and we think they're at levels that we can -- if you just do our cash bond spreads at five years, a little over 5%, we can borrow at that rate for five years, and we can lend it to customers who need capital at an attractive rate. We're trying to balance how much additional non guaranteed debt to how quickly do you do it when you already got $50 billion in cash. We've got the cash there for the insurance so we don't need to do any but we're committed to prefunding 2010 before we get out of 2009. We're going to do it pieces at a time in markets where there's acceptable demand and we're not going to be disruptive in the credit markets as we go forward and do that.

ROBERT CORNELL: One final question from me. There were commentators on CNBC this morning noting the evolution of the commercial real estate book, both equity and the loan book. I'm sure you will touch on that in some detail on the 28th, but how do you guys see those positions evolving and what level of impairments and credit losses are we likely to see, just looking out over the next three years or so? How is that going to evolve?

JEFF IMMELT: We're going to grind our way through it. We're going to show you -- we showed you in March how we feel about our loan book, underwritten at conservative loan to values, making sure that we understand the supply and demand dynamics for every market we're in, we've been very careful and diversified on our equity book but obviously that's under pressure based on how the market is performing and what people have as opportunities to put new money to work at but again not a big supply and demand overhang, and we're going to grind our way through the real-estate book. We've got Ron and his team working on making sure every property that comes up for lease gets released. Every negotiation point on a refinancing gets negotiated hard. Everything that we can do to help them from a GE perspective we're doing, and I think the team has done a very good job working through that. It's a tough market, we're going to have an overhang from the equity book and things we bought in 2007, clearly. And we're going to work our way through it is over time. I think you are going to have to basically we've said we've got a 4 billion to $5 billion embedded loss that in book and we're going to grind our way through that over the next couple of years. You get a little over $1 billion of that every year through depreciation. Our net operating income is pretty good at about $1.6 billion on that equity book. Our occupancy is good. And the team is doing a good job of releasing everything that comes open. So I think it's a grind it out. We've got a lot of good people working on it, and I think the team is doing pretty good job in a tough environment, and we'll show you a lot more details on the 28th.

ROBERT CORNELL: What's the schedule from refis in that book in the balance of the year? You had like $5.4 billion for the whole year. Have you been through half of it or is most of it second half?

JEFF IMMELT: I don't remember the exact number, Bob. We'll definitely cover that on the 28th. We gave you an update on that in the first quarter. I don't have it with me right now.

ROBERT CORNELL: That's all, thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jason Feldman with UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Jason.

JASON FELDMAN: I know you've talked for awhile now about shrinking the capital finance portfolio but at least sequentially assets were up somewhat. Was that currency or more aggressive origination? Opportunistically, or is there something else going on there?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, that's all currency. On a reported basis, as you said, the assets were up 13 -- $25 billion of that quarter over quarter was driven by the dollar. FX translation. So we're down 12 or 13 in the quarter on an originations less than collections basis.

JASON FELDMAN: Got it. And that's a lot of data all at once but if my math is right, reserves as a percentage of non earnings, declined modestly despite reserve builds. I mean reserves as a percentage. Non earnings are about 50% down from 57% last quarter. How should I think about that? Is ita change in the mix of where non-earnings are?

KEITH SHERIN: It's really -- you've got to separate out the global mortgage book. The global mortgage book has a lower percent of reserves based on the fact that we're senior secured position in the properties, and so as those go to non earnings, they get big numbers in non earning, but really the loss percents are much lower than what we have across the rest of the consumer book for sure and they're probably comparable to the rest of the commercial book. So it is a mix effect. And we'll show you some more of that on the 28th as well.

JASON FELDMAN: I'm sorry, just to make sure that I get this what you are basically saying is when the non earnings growth comes from mortgage side, because the actual expected losses are lower you don't need the same comparable reserve build.

KEITH SHERIN: Exactly.

JASON FELDMAN: Sorry, just wanted to--.

KEITH SHERIN: Because remember, we underwrote the properties at 70% loan to value. When it goes nonearning, the full value of the property goes and even though you've got all that asset behind your loan position.

JASON FELDMAN: Then last quick thing, at commercial lending and leasing, I'm trying to reconcile non earnings, which were up substantially this quarter, while the equipment financing delinquencies actually were down. I know not all of CLL was equipment financing, but can you kind of explain the dynamics there, why we're seeing continued growth in the non earnings with delinquencies that seem to be stabilizing, how we should think about that probably not just there but elsewhere as well?

JEFF IMMELT: Some of that actually is connected, as something goes out of financial receivables into nonearnings, or goes into the nonearnings category, it's not in the delinquency category. Some of that, the book is already basically starting to season. You're dealing with a non-earning asset. You've got to work your way through that, in terms of getting your senior secured position recovered, and it comes out of the 30-day delinquency measurement.

JASON FELDMAN: Do you view that as a sign of stabilization?

JEFF IMMELT: I view it as a sign of maturation of the commercial book here in the US. I don't know if it's stable yet. I'd like to see the third quarter, but I can tell you that it's nice to have it at least flat tin second quarter, and I hope it is a sign of stabilization.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, thank you very much.

JEFF IMMELT: Seasoning sign was the word I was looking for, Jason. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague with Citigroup.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a few things. Just on credit costs for the year, Keith, should we kind of expect we'll be in the $10 billion, $10.5 billion range based on kind of the run rate and what you said, a little below the fed base case?

KEITH SHERIN: We -- we're just take where we are at the half, and if you look at where we are at the half and you double it for the year, you end up in those numbers. Again, in all our indicators, with all the ups and downs, some above the fed base case, some below, especially the retail business, even below our op plan, you get somewhere below the fed base case. If things continue as they are through the second half, yes.

JEFF SPRAGUE: I was just wondering, disc ops. Did something else move into disc ops and GE Capital in the second quarter? The number was quite small in Q1.

KEITH SHERIN: Nothing else moved in there. There was a true-up on the lake disposition with Shinsei in the quarter, right around $100 million related to the exit of our consumer business in Japan.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And I wonder if I might just actually ask Brackett a question since we have him on the call.

KEITH SHERIN: That's why we brought him.

JEFF SPRAGUE: I would certainly agree with the notion that perhaps companies like GE had nothing to do with the core of the problem that happened, which actually then makes the language of this thing actually quite interesting. A lot of people surmise that it actually seems to directly target GE, based on your size and other sorts of things, and I just wonder your view on that, if the strength of the administration's conviction that kind of the mingling of finance and industry is actually an underlying problem here?

BRACKETT DENNISTON: Well, I think it's one of many proposals. I don't sense it's up at the top of their list. It's not something they talk about a lot publicly. But it's a debate that's gone back 30 or 40 years between banking regulators and other people. And so I think that's where that reasoning comes from. It's an old debate that usually gets resolved in the way I mentioned. It gets resolved by grandfathering. I don't think it's fundamental to any crisis prevention, although you could make arguments that way. And the existing structures have been well regulated by the kinds of protections you have in law and could strengthen modestly to address any kinds of risks that are covered in the couple of paragraphs in the white paper that touch on it.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the actual circumstances of what we've been through over the last nine months are completely the opposite. Why is GE and GE Capital better than other financial institutions? We've been able to raise equity as a combined enterprise. We've been able to strengthen the balance sheet at GE Capital based on the strength of the GE business model and our cash flows. We had to cut our dividend. That protects GE Capital going forward. The industrial combination with our financial services business has provided the strength for us to work our way through this crisis, Jeff, and I think that's a pretty strong proof statement in one of the toughest environments that any business model has ever gone through.

BRACKETT DENNISTON: Jeff, as you can tell, we're very committed here, extremely committed and just to -- we're out originating new business, we're out providing liquidity. As we showed earlier, even in a tough environment, this industrial Company is going to generate between 14 billion and $16 billion of cash flow, and all of that can be applied strengthening GE Capital and doing more origination in the marketplace. So we're very committed to this business model.

JEFF IMMELT: I just would add one other thing, Jeff. I don't think this thing was targeted at GE Capital. I think this was a broader conceptual kind of thing. And so I don't buy into the notion that somehow this was targeted.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great. Just one other unrelated question. Keith could, you give us what the industrial organic growth was in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: Revenue growth down about 5.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thanks a lot, everybody.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Inch with Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, guys. The equipment orders down over 40%, Keith, what was the organic results? So if you exed out pricing and currency see and in terms of the embedded down 10 to 15 do you guys presume that the down 40ish reported number does, that continue or does that actually get better because of other comps or stuff that you're seeing?

KEITH SHERIN: FX is only about 2 points on that, but, yes, it gets better because the second quarter was the second highest order quarter ever. In the second half you go down in the $13 billion order sort of order numbers, instead of the 14 billion $15 billion numbers we're comparing to. Based on the fact that orders we had, absolute level, were so great you are going to see a little better comparison. We're -- we don't expect to be down 44, 42% for the year. It's somewhere probably closer to the 25% kind of range.

JEFF IMMELT: Even without the recession, John, we would have had an unwind here. We billed $30 billion of backlog over four years. It's just a -- just a ton. So this is really within our expectations, and what I talked about, vis-a-vis equipment revenue, for how to think about it going forward, I think using all of our analytics, that seems pretty reasonable.

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at the absolute order, equipment order level being down the amount, first of all that is not what's going to turn into revenue. As Jeff said, you do the math on the backlog conversion, and what you get in normal orders in the current year going into revenue, and you could be down somewhere around 10 to 15%. We're giving that you framework in a nonguidance world, but it's not going to be down 40%. On top of that you got the services the other side.

JOHN INCH: Right. Well, Jeff, you're pretty optimistic on energy continuing, yet the energy orders specifically are down. Is there something about the back half that allows your turbine business specifically to continue kind of the trend into next year, or is there mix issues? How should we--?

JEFF IMMELT: John, what I would say is, you've got a very strong service momentum in the second half. So I think that is a very good sign for the energy business. Big backlogs, big global footprint. I would say that a lot of the wind -- we have a very formal process in terms of how we book orders. A lot of the wind commitments didn't turn into orders really because our customers were waiting to see how the eventual language worked on the production tax credit. That's not been clarified. So we see a couple big orders that are out there that will probably happen the second half.

KEITH SHERIN: I think 100% of what we're talking about for 2009 is in the backlog across these business these we covered with those updates I gave you, John. I think we'll have to work our way through the second half and see what equipment is for 2010, but that framework that Jeff talked about I think is pretty appropriate.

JOHN INCH: Then just lastly, Keith, the $678 million of tax credits at GE Capital, how does that compare to the tax credits in the first quarter if you were to ex out or however you want to look at it, the impact of the reinvestment of earnings that you did in the first quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: It's pretty similar. I think the way to -- the simple way to look at it, if you take the pretax loss at GECS and you tax-affect it, then you end up with about 400 million to $500 million of tax benefits that we get every quarter from our global structure including the fact that GE pays GE Capital for its tax losses. So you are talking about a 400 million to $500 million a quarter run rate, and that's very similar excluding that one time reinvestment that we did -- our commitment to reinvesting earnings overseas that we did in the first quarter.

JOHN INCH: Lastly your deposit base, $36 billion, I think it was flat. Is there anything going on there? Maybe just a little bit of an update with respect to the GE plus accounts or anything like that?

KEITH SHERIN: No, there's nothing really. I think we've had a little bit of slower growth in the core on the ILC bank in Utah. So if you don't have the assets, we don't raise the deposits. We've had good global growth in some good bank loan growth offsetting that.

JOHN INCH: Thanks very much.

JEFF IMMELT: Great. Why don't we take one more question.

OPERATOR: Wonderful. Your final question comes from the line of Steven Winoker with Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Thanks for taking the call.

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Steve.

STEVEN WINOKER: Couple questions. One, just to follow up Jeff's question with Brackett, on the white paper proposal, I guess it is only one option. It's early days. But did explicitly exclude grandfathering in one of the comments. What options have you thought about, in sort of some of the worser case scenarios as -- to avoid a split, if, in fact, you did get named a bank holding company, or how you sort of scenario plan this thing to mitigate any damage, other than just fighting it?

BRACKETT DENNISTON: Well, I think I talked earlier on about the number of things that we're doing to protect ourselves, getting smaller and more focused, number one. Number two, bulking up on regulation. I'd say those are the two principal things. And you talk about all the other things that we're doing around capital, strengthening capital for a new regulated world, strengthening our liquidity profile, all of those things prepare you for whatever comes out of this white paper.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And on capital allocation, how are you thinking about, in light of current results that long-term dividend payout outlook? Is it going up to 50%, or how are you thinking about that? And over what kind of time frame?

KEITH SHERIN: We said when we made the decision to cut the dividend for the second half of this year that we're going to have an assumption that we weren't going to rely on any capital out of GE Capital for the near term. That assumption is still in place today. We'll have to see how 2010 and 2011 look before we revisit that. And we think we've got a pretty good dividend yield on the dividend payout we have today based on our industrial earnings and our industrial cash flow relative to what is competitively available out there. I think it's something we'll look at as we get more clarity on 2010 and 2011, but we've got a pretty healthy dividend yield versus the dividend payout we have today.

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, the good news is that our CFOA is equal to or higher than it was when we had our December meeting. So, it gives us just a lot of financial flexibility when we look at the second half of the year, to make good choices for our investors. But our CFOA performance is very good.

STEVEN WINOKER: And as you mentioned in December, Jeff, are you still basically thinking in terms of that you're out of the market for large, at least in terms of large M&A?

JEFF IMMELT: Steve, I made two comments in December that I still think are true today. The first one is, our priority right now is just to make sure that GE Capital is safe and secure, and that we have the opportunity to play offense in GE Capital in the second half of the year, and I think we can do that. The second comment I made is that we don't think there's going to be a lot of big transactions that take place, and I think what we've seen in the first half supports that.

STEVEN WINOKER: Thank you.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Trevor. Thanks everybody. I think in the key highlights are great service strength, tremendous work on productivity, strong cash flow, and you've seen the framework for the second half of the year. Again, we think the GE team is executing well in a tough environment.

KEITH SHERIN: And we look forward to giving you a good update on GE Capital on the 28th, and that should be a revisit of the deep dive we did in March on a more focused basis.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thank you Jeff and Keith and Brackett. Just a few housekeeping items. The replay will be available this afternoon. I'd like to close by announcing three upcoming events for your calendars here. First, we have a reminder that the GE Capital investor webcast will be held on July 28. Second, we will be also hosting investor day at the global research center on September 17, so please stay tuned. More details to come on that. And then finally, our third quarter earnings call will be held on October 16. Information regarding all these upcoming events will be made available on our website shortly, and for today as always Joanne and I will be available to take your questions. Thank you very much, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation. This concludes your conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8150105 : Consumer Lending | i371 : Measuring/Precision Instruments | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i8150104 : Sales Financing
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | e1101 : Economic Growth | cpartn : Partnerships/Collaborations | c131 : Regulatory Bodies | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | gtrans : Transport | e1114 : Factory Orders/Durable Goods | ceffic : Corporate Process Redesign | c151 : Earnings | ereal : Real Estate Markets | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | gtenp : Tenpin Bowling | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gplan : Urban Planning/Development | gpol : Domestic Politics | gspo : Sports/Recreation | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | nrgn : Routine General News
   RE
usa : United States | uk : United Kingdom | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090731e57h000jj
  


 HD
 Q1  2009  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
18,456 words
   PD
17 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Noelia and I will be your conference coordinator today. (Operator Instructions). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thank you, Noelia. Good morning and welcome, everyone. Joanne and I are pleased to host today's webcast. Hopefully, you have the press release from earlier this morning. Slides are available via the webcast. Slides are also available for download and printing on your website at www.ge.com/investor. If you don't see it, please refresh.

   TD
As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

We will be reviewing the GE press release that went out earlier today and have time for Q&A at the end. For today's webcast, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now, I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Great, Trevor and good morning, everyone. Just to start on the overview page, the global environment remains challenging. Everybody can read the newspapers every day and that is what we all see. GE I think demonstrated in this quarter that we are navigating through the recession.

We will discuss in the presentation the way we are running the Company, but a couple of things that I want to point out -- very aggressive cost out, strong and solid cash flow. Our commercial teams are doing a good job of holding our backlog and GE Capital safe and secure. Many of you attended the meeting we had on March 19 and this is really an update of that.

And while earnings are down 35% year over year due to the recession, our first-quarter earnings really were consistent with our March update and December framework. The infrastructure and media earnings were flat for the quarter and Capital Finance segment profit was $1.1 billion. This did include some one-time tax benefits that we will walk through, but we were profitable in the first quarter and we will remain profitable in the year.

We are running GE for the long term. We are investing in growth. Several weeks ago, we announced a joint venture with Intel for home health, which is a good example of the things that we think we can do in this environment.

Now if you turn to the environment, I will just give you a snapshot of the way we see the world based on the industries we participate in. The downturn continues. We are in the midst of a global recession that is taking place around the world. Unemployment continues to increase. We believe it is going to go higher. Capital markets are improving. We have seen some bond issuances and some IPOs recently. I think that is encouraging, but there is still some volatility. The commercial credit cycle we believe will be very difficult and we are planning for that eventuality and we still see weak consumer business confidence. We had more capacity quite honestly to lend to our commercial customers in Q1 than we had demand.

There are some positive signs, the parts of the globe that are still robust. China and the Middle East and Latin America, our order intake was decent. Broad deflation will help margins throughout the year and we are seeing pretty good expansion in energy infrastructure and technology infrastructure. Customer usage helps our Services business. We have a very solid installed base and we think that will get worked hard in this downturn. And stimulus is starting to take hold. And while this will take some time to translate into hard results, we are seeing momentum around projects. So while we were seeing some positive indicators globally, we continue to be cautious and run the Company to be safe and secure.

On the next page, there are just some operational details. These are things we discussed in December and what I want to do is just update them today. We talked about having aggressive cost out and with revenue decreasing, we upped our goals and we should have more than $5 billion of cost out this year. The focus on driving orders where available while protecting the backlog and again, we will take you through that, but we think we have done a fairly good job of protecting the backlog.

Solid industrial cash flow, our CFOA was at 1.6 times our industrial net income. We are on plan for cash through the first quarter. Keeping GE Capital safe and secure. I think the transparency of 180-page presentation on March 19 demonstrates our commitment to the business and the desire to share the results with investors and resolving the credit ratings. The rating agency reviews are behind us now and despite the downgrades, we retain a strong and stable rating and we're pleased to have this uncertainty resolved.

So the next page just takes you through some of our aggressive cost out and as I said, we are ahead of plan. In the first quarter, our base cost was $1 billion below last year. In addition, we have funded an additional $400 million of restructuring. That is going to help us achieve even greater results throughout the year. Headcount is down and we have lower spend and just to put restructuring in context, we have about $2.5 billion in restructuring over the last several years.

On indirect costs, our indirect costs are down about $600 million year over year. We are seeing price down and lower usage in IT, telecom, transportation, MRO across the Company and we think this will give us good momentum going forward. In direct material, we have upped our goals. We are seeing more deflation in places like steal and other raw materials. We are seeing some opportunities. Some of this will take place in '09, but we see even more improvement in the books for 2010 and 2011.

The margins we are still targeting to be positive for the year and the quarter. Our infrastructure business had a 90 basis point expansion. We had a very positive value gap and that was offset by some margin headwinds in NBC, which we will go through later, but on balance, we think we have good momentum for margins to potentially be positive this year. So we have increased our goals on cost out and are ahead of plan.

Turning over to orders, orders are done 10% overall, but relative to the economy, I am pleased with our sales effectiveness in this environment. If you look at the top left, the real focus is on preserving backlog. The backlog is essentially flat quarter over quarter. We did have about $500 million of cancellations, $400 million in energy and $100 million in aviation, but on balance, we feel very good about how the backlog is in place.

From an order standpoint, equipment orders were down 21%. We think that is to be expected in a cycle like this and we could see several quarters of negative orders as we go through a combination of having a huge order run-up over the last few years and some of the economic headwinds. I think more importantly, the service orders actually picked up in Q1 versus Q4. 7% order intake in our high-margin service business is I think encouraging and on track.

Just a few highlights by business, the energy infrastructure equipment orders were $4.3 billion, Services were $4.1 billion. Wind hung in there almost flat for the quarter at $1.7 billion. Thermal was down by about 50%, but we didn't book any of the Iraq order in the first quarter. That was about $500 million that slipped into Q2.

Technology infrastructure had pretty good orders in aviation both in equipment and Services and we had real headwind in healthcare as that market is proving to be very difficult, particularly in the US in the first quarter.

From a Services standpoint, I think it was pretty strong across the board. Aviation commercial spares were up, overhauls were up, energy and wind services were strong, transportation services were up 19%. So we saw pretty good service capability across the board. And lastly, a lot of orders are coming from outside the United States, a lot of global orders healthcare in China, the West to East pipeline in China. So we are trying to focus where the growth is available.

And in that context, I thought I would give you an update on what we are seeing on stimulus. Once again, this is going to take some time for the projects to translate to income, but we are seeing activity. On the left-hand side, about $2 trillion of stimulus has been announced. GE is targeting in nine regions -- US, Canada, China, Japan, Brazil, UK, France, Germany, Middle East. We have got a real strong team and process in place. You're going to see several big projects break in the second quarter. And we have got a pipeline of about $100 billion plus in opportunities.

On the right-hand side, I thought it would just take you a walk on how global and how broad-based these activities are. The first one has a lot to do with wind in terms of stabilizing the backlog and solidifying the 2009 projects and then building the backlog in '09 and -- or in '10 and '11. You have seen projects like Invenergy, there was one in Missouri yesterday funded by the Wind Capital Group. So you have seen three or four in the last few weeks and we think that will pick up during the rest of the year. And in China, their stimulus is actually accelerating our wind demand.

They are accelerating green energy investing like the Smart Grid. For your perspective, a one million population city is about $500 million of GE content in the Smart Grid and you will see a big deal on this next week on a big city where this technology is going to be applied by GE.

Stimulus outside the United States is solidifying our growing backlog. The China rail project is actually growing year over year and we see more opportunities behind the Iraq turbine order, which is going to help us grow in the future.

Healthcare stimulus differs by region. In the US, it is focused on healthcare information technology. Outside the United States, it is focused on building new hospitals and equipment and again, in different ways, we think this stimulus is going to help our healthcare business in 2010 and 2011.

We are seeing the access to innovation investment. This is going to allow us to spend more in R&D in 2009. In the US, we have got support on things like green appliances and batteries and globally, we are getting R&D offsets to fund more projects. So we think that is a benefit.

And lastly, there is many programs being put in place to support export finance in aviation, energy, transportation and healthcare through the EXIM Bank or in Europe, places like COFAS. So GE is uniquely positioned, well-positioned and this is both important and intense. We're going to get some benefits from this in 2009, but we think a lot of benefit in 2010 and 2011.

Next page on cash, cash was $2.8 billion in the quarter. Now this is consistent with our operating plan because there is always a build during the year. Historically, 18% of our four-year cash flow is in the first quarter. This would put us on a run rate to hit about $16 billion for the year. You should know, and I think most of you know, that we are not going to have any GECS dividend in the GE CFOA in 2009. All that capital is going to be kept inside GE Capital.

Our working capital improvements were solid for the quarter, offsetting the decline in progress collections. And if you look at the right-hand side of the page, you really see the big event in the quarter was that we contributed $9.5 billion to GE Capital and returned to $3.3 billion to shareowners as dividend. So that is really what you see on the GE cash balance walk between the fourth quarter of '08 and the first quarter of '09. So cash is really on plan in terms of what we expected and importantly, our consolidated cash flow at the end of the quarter is $47 billion ahead of plan. So we continue to make good progress on cash and we are on plan for the Company so far through the first quarter.

The next page is on safe and secure GE Capital. Our key metrics on liquidity, funding and capital are all consistent with our March 19 update that many of you attended and just to give you a brief update, we are really about funded for this year on our long-term funding plan, so we feel good about that. Our commercial paper progress is really ahead of plan. We are targeting to get to $50 billion by year-end of 2009 and when you look at the difference between first quarter of '08, it is really significant.

Cash on the balance sheet of $47 billion is above the estimate we gave you on March 19 of $41 billion. Our leverage is on plan to be at 6 to 1, so we feel good about just making the Company safer and an important capital ratio of tangible common equity to tangible assets increased significantly. I think it is the sign of balance sheet strength. It is very solid and ahead of our March 19 commitment and it compares we think very favorably to the banks. So we funded 93% of our long-term debt. We have reduced commercial paper and our capital ratios I think really signify how serious we take the need to have a very strong balance sheet in this very rigorous economy.

Also, on credit ratings, we retain a strong and stable outlook. We have made progress throughout the quarter, just taking you back. In December, S&P put us on negative outlook. In January, Moody's put GE under review. Those have both been resolved in the short term. S&P has given us a AA+ with a stable outlook on March 12. The rating of AA+ indicates a very strong [capacity] financial commitments. A stable outlook means the rating is unlikely to change in the next six months to two years. Moody's put us on a AA2 with a stable outlook. Again, obligations of AA2 judged to be of high quality and no change in short-term ratings. So nobody likes a downgrade, but GE retains a strong, stable rating, and vis-a-vis our financial service peers, we think this makes us competitive in terms of our cost of funds and capacity. So with that, let me turn it over to Keith to take you through the first-quarter performance.

KEITH SHERIN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: All right, thanks, Jeff. Before we get into the details of the first quarter by businesses, I wanted to start with the framework that we outlined in December and then we updated again at the March 19 capital meeting. We said we expected energy infrastructure to be a strong positive performer for the year, if you look at first-quarter results up 19%. That was a great performance. We said we thought technology infrastructure would have positive growth for the year. The first quarter was up 6%. We said we expected NBCU to be flat to down in December and as the environment worsened, we said it would be more negative in March a couple of times. The actuals are very tough, but I'm going to take you through the details of why the first-quarter performance is indicative of what we expect for the total year.

In total, we said infrastructure and media would be up 0% to 5%. With the pressure at NBCU, we came in flat. For Capital Finance, we updated our December framework at the March 19 meeting. There we said capital -- we expected Capital Finance to be profitable. They are $1.1 billion and I'm going to take you through a lot of details on Capital. Overall, the results were consistent with the outline from the March meeting and we said we expected corporate, including the C&I results and industrial taxes, to be flat and the actual results were flat. So that is a summary of Q1 against our previous updates.

Here is a summary of the first quarter. On the left side is the summary of continuing operations. Revenues of $38.4 billion were down 9%. You can see our industrial sales of $24 billion were down 1%. We were impacted by the strong dollar in the quarter. They would be up 2% ex-FX. So we had a lot of good actually international activity.

Financial services revenue, as expected, would be down as we are shrinking that balance sheet, $14.4 billion down 20%. We earned $2.8 billion in net income. It was down 35% and for earnings per share, we earned $0.26, which includes the cost of the preferred dividend.

Total cash flow from operating activities was $2.8 billion, as Jeff took you through and for taxes, the bottom left of the page has the tax rates for the quarter. I'm going to take a little bit of time to explain them as they were significant in the quarter. The consolidated rate came in at negative 12%. That rate comes from a large tax benefit or credit mostly in GE Capital as you can see on the income statement on significantly reduced pretax income for the quarter and again, that is all in GE Capital.

The whole rate is driven by the GE Capital credits. As you can see, the industrial rate for the quarter was 31%. For GE Capital, the rates are positive because we have a credit that we are dividing into negative pretax income. The pretax was about 150 negative and then you have got a significant tax credit resulting in the favorable rate.

One key point here that I want to reinforce is that our industrial earnings enable us to use these GE Capital tax losses and that is a benefit of having GE Industrial and GE Capital together. So for GE Capital, the $1.2 billion credit for capital includes the first-quarter impact of the tax benefit that we would otherwise expect for the year, the normal benefits we get from our low tax international operations, plus $700 million from a decision we made in the first quarter to permanently reinvest about $2 billion of our low tax overseas earnings. That resulted in a one-time tax benefit and under the accounting rules, a $700 million benefit is recorded entirely in the first quarter, not spread through the year. So that reduced the rate compared to what we project for the year. But only $200 million of that impact actually fell through in the quarter because, as we increased that prior year indefinite reinvestment for $700 million, that was offset by $500 million of tax charges that we took in the quarter to book to our projected full-year rate.

So the $500 million charge was necessary because, excluding that permanent reinvestment benefit, our tax benefits for the quarter would have resulted in a lower tax rate in the first quarter than we are projecting for the year and therefore, we recorded a $500 million tax benefit to bring the first-quarter rate up, excluding the discrete items to the projected full-year rate.

So in total, there is a $0.02 incremental tax benefit in the quarter -- $700 million from the one-time permanent reinvestment offset by $500 million of expense that has been booked at corporate to bring the rate to the total year benefit.

On the right side are the segment results looking at our December framework format. Industrial ex-C&I had $3.4 billion of segment profit, which was flat and you can see the pieces as we talked about on the previous page. Capital Finance earned $1.1 billion and C&I earned $36 million, which was down 75% and I'm going to cover the businesses over the next several pages.

Before I get into the businesses, there is one page here on the summary of the first-quarter items, which impacted our results. We tried to describe this in the press release to give you the unique items in the quarter and how the pluses and minuses offset. First, for transaction gains and marks and impairments, the impact in total on the Company was $0.03 positive. We basically had three transactions that generated gains -- two in aviation for $0.03 and one in GE Capital for $0.03. And I will cover these in the business results, but the total in the quarter was a positive $0.06.

And then partially offsetting that were the marks and impairments. We had $0.03 of marks and impairments at GE Capital. There was no one large item. Included in the impairments, we had $72 million for real estate. That would be the largest single category; although it was several properties. And we had $32 million for FGIC, a write-down of our FGIC investment.

Second, we also completed a lot of restructuring, as Jeff said. We are taking a lot of costs out of the Company. We did $400 million after tax of restructuring in the quarter. The majority of that is recorded in corporate and then some of it is recorded in capital. If you look by business, there was $50 million for our energy business, $75 million for our tech infrastructure business. There was $60 million in GE Capital, $75 million for C&I. However, the biggest pieces are the workforce and footprint reductions.

And then third, we had the two tax items in the quarter, which I just went through and that netted to a $0.02 positive impact. So overall the net of all these was a $0.01 favorable impact on the consolidated GE in the quarter.

I am going to start the business results with GE Capital and just wanted to reinforce some of the key messages we talked about on March 19. As Jeff already said, we are running the Company to be safe and secure. Clearly, liquidity has dramatically improved over the last six months. With commercial paper under $60 billion and $47 billion of consolidated cash, we have dramatically improved that position.

We have completed most of our funding and after looking at the 2009 plan, today, we are reviewing our 2010 long-term debt needs and we are going to continue to fund ahead of our needs to maintain a strong liquidity position and our objective is to be issuing on a nonguaranteed basis during 2009 as we enter 2010. So we are going to keep working on that.

We have obviously been working on resizing GE Capital. That has gone very well. Assets were down $31 billion from the fourth quarter. Ex-FX, some of this is from the strong dollar and translation, but even ex-FX, we achieved 44% of the total year shrinkage plan and I'll show you in a few pages that we have more capacity to invest in new opportunity starting in the second quarter, which is good news.

We are being very aggressive on managing costs. SG&A for GECS was down. $600 million in the first quarter. We're on track for a $3 billion plan. I think we showed you $2.7 billion roughly at the March 19 meeting. So we continue to make progress on that.

We are in a really challenging credit cycle; there is no doubt about it. We do expect delinquencies and provisions for losses and write-offs to all continue to increase and that is the environment we plan for, what we are expecting.

Even with that, with the dividend savings we are going to have in the second half of the year and the recent capital infusion, we believe we have capital that is sufficient to weather the adverse economic conditions as we showed you on the 19th and I will show you lots of details on asset quality, reserves and non-earnings. We are increasing our total reserves and marks and impairments were about $0.03 lower than the fourth quarter. So a little bit of positive news there.

We earned $1 billion in the quarter in total in GE Capital Services. We said we would be profitable and we expect to be profitable for the year and even in this incredibly tough cycle, we are committed to GE Capital. We have great franchises; we have got great people. We have real businesses that are going to earn us strong returns for our shareholders over time. And we are going to be smaller and more focused and better position as we come out of this credit cycle.

So here are the results for Capital Finance for Q1. Mike Neal and the team earned $1.1 billion, which while down 58% from last year was a very positive outcome in this environment. We also continue to make progress on shrinking the business. As I said, year-over-year total assets of $542 billion are down 13% from a year ago.

11 points of that reduction comes from the stronger dollar, but if you look from the end of 2008 to the first quarter, assets being down $31 billion or 5%, and half of that coming from real progress in shrinking the business. And in consumer loan without FX, we're down $15 billion from year-end. And we also had a $3 billion decline from year-end in commercial real estate.

In terms of the business results, I'm going to cover some of the income drivers for each of the businesses and then also tie back to the framework that the team pitched on March 19th. So let me start with consumer. You can see on the bottom left in consumer we earned $727 million. That was down 27% year-over-year.

The decline in earnings was driven by higher credit costs. The credit costs in consumer were up $581 million, and we also had lower gains. Last year we had about $290 million of gains as we sold the corporate card business. And those declines were offset by higher tax benefits that I covered earlier and higher core earnings. We had some better earnings in the US retail business, and we had good earnings from global cost productivity.

In terms of the specific consumer businesses from the March meeting if you look at the right side, the US consumer was profitable in the first quarter. And while unemployment is trending towards the numbers in the adverse case, our credit costs in Q1 were $964 million, which when you look at the framework we laid out is below the Q1 estimate even for the Fed base case. We are seeing the benefits from our underwriting actions that we took last year and it is showing up in delinquencies and it is showing up in entry into delinquencies. So I think there is some good news here.

On the UK home lending, the business lost $73 million in the quarter. We had $219 million of credit costs and a lot of that was to increase reserves. Home price inflation was negative 2.7% in Q1, which is favorable. However, when you look at the indicators of rising delinquencies and non-earnings, we do expect to see more pressure in this portfolio as we go forward.

For Central and Eastern Europe, the banks made $84 million in earnings in the quarter. We had $156 million of credit costs, which are below the Fed base case for the first-quarter estimate. Commercial real estate, obviously one of the biggest businesses that we are talking about today with investors and we gave a lot of details on the 19th. The business lost $173 million in the quarter. That was the biggest variance year over year for GE Capital; was down $650 million. The main driver of the earnings decline is significantly lower property sales gains. Last year, we realized -- we sold $2.6 billion of fair value properties. This year, we sold $200 million. We had a small gain, but year over year, the gains were down almost $500 million.

As expected, delinquencies have risen. 30 plus delinquencies in this portfolio is about 2.2%, which is very low, but we did increase our reserves in real estate by about $110 million and we had $70 million of impairments explaining the full decline in negative income at basically gains plus the increasing credit costs.

In terms of the March update, the total loss of $173 million in the quarter basically is in line with our December outlook, but as we look at the indicators, we expect the losses to continue to worsen as we go through 2009.

For commercial lending and leasing, the business earned $222 million in the quarter; is down almost 70%. The earnings decline was driven by $155 million of higher credit provisions and we also had lower gains here. Last year, we had a [jampacked] gain and that was partially offset by the gain in Penske this year. We sold to below a control position. We have been selling down Penske for 2.5 years now and we completed the transaction to get below 50% and that resulted in a gain of about $0.03 in GE Capital.

Our CLL customers are clearly being impacted by the tough economy and in terms of the March update, the total losses and impairments are just slightly above the base case that we showed you. And finally, the verticals had earnings declines, but mainly that was driven by lower gains. Last year, GECAS benefited from some aircraft sales. That didn't repeat. That was about $100 million and we ended the quarter with one aircraft on the ground, but right after the end of the quarter, in the first week of April, we signed a new commitment on that plane and we will move that out. So a lot of good asset quality stories in the verticals; really no issues there.

So let me go into asset quality. The next page is an update that we give you regularly on delinquencies and non-earnings. These are 30 plus day past dues and non-earning assets. On the left side, commercial data. We continue to see the delinquencies and non-earnings rise as our customers are impacted by the economy. You can see most of the delinquency, it is up 66 basis points versus the fourth quarter, is in the equipment finance business. It is in our core CLL portfolio, about two-thirds of the increase.

Non-earnings of 61 basis points, up 61 basis points versus the fourth quarter. It is driven by senior secured loans. They are well-collateralized. I will take you through how we think about non-earnings relative to our reserve provisions in a couple pages. And then commercial real estate, it is not in the delinquency metric above, but it is -- non-earnings are up to 1.2% and we are seeing delinquencies, as I said, up to 2.2%.

And then on the right side is the consumer data. We continue to see deterioration of the consumer portfolio in the quarter in both the mortgage and the non-mortgage book, but we break the mortgage and the non-mortgage out because the loss dynamics are so different and I will continue to show that as we go through the asset quality section here.

One piece of good news, as I mentioned, in North America, we are seeing delinquencies stable. The consumer delinquency in North America was flat from the fourth quarter basically. It was 7.07% in the fourth quarter, went to 7.1% in the first quarter and we continue to see declining entry rates in the delinquency though our entry into delinquency is down. It was down in the fourth quarter and it was down in the first quarter and that is a real positive sign in the card portfolio. So we'll have to see how that plays out as we go forward, but it did help us in terms of our provision needs and our profitability in the quarter.

The UK, on the other hand, is the biggest pressure point. It drove 47 basis points as a delinquency increase and 54 basis points of the non-earnings increase. Mortgage delinquency rates are rising. The exposure though is mitigated as we showed you in the March 19 meeting. We have got very low loan-to-value positions and even with our delinquencies, the write-offs are very low at 0.45% of financing receivables. So while non-earnings for both commercial and consumer are rising, I'm going to show you our reserve coverage from the March meeting in two pages. Overall, delinquencies and non-earnings just show us that we're going to continue in a tough environment as we expected.

Next is an update on reserve coverage. If you look at the bars here, we took $1.7 billion of write-offs in the quarter. We had $2.3 billion of provisions in the quarter and we increased our reserves by $400 million just from year-end and $1.4 billion from year over year while we lowered our assets by $31 billion. The reserves would have actually been at $5.9 billion on a consistent FX basis, so we had a $200 million reduction in the absolute balance because of the strong dollar translation.

If you look, it is not on the chart, but if you look at reserves and the provision run rate, there were some questions this morning and pre-notes about why is the provision down from fourth quarter. I will just go through over the last year what have our provision for losses been. They were $1.3 billion in the first quarter of last year. They rose to $1.5 billion in the second quarter, $1.6 billion in the third quarter. They were $3 billion in the fourth quarter, but if you remember, we had $500 million after tax of incremental provisioning we did to adjust our loss reserve ratios in some methodologies.

On an adjusted basis, taking out that one-time increase, you would probably be somewhere around 2.2 and here in the first quarter, we are at 2.336. So we have seen a full-year cycle of increasing provisions that will continue. And as we increase those reserves, we are increasing our reserve coverage. If you look at the percent's below the bars here, last year in the first quarter, we were at 1.04% and today at the end of the first quarter, we are 1.59% and we expect that to continue to increase as we go through the year. So we have put up more provisions. We have increased our reserves in both commercial and consumer and we have increased our coverage rate in commercial up to 0.86% and in consumer, up to 2.87%.

For the US [card sales finance], the coverage rate is up to 6.8% and we maintained strong non-earnings coverage of over two times and for the mortgage business, the coverage rate also increased up to 0.92% and we continue to see very low losses relative to our delinquencies and our non-earnings. So in total, the reserve coverage is up 55 basis points over the prior year and as I said, that is going to continue as we go forward.

This is an update -- the next page is an update on non-earning assets and reserve coverage. These are the same charts that Jeff Bornstein, the CFO of GE Capital, covered during the March 19 meeting and we just updated them for the first-quarter actual results. I think it helps to look at where are we on non-earnings in the business. And when you break out how we think about the exposure, how do we feel in terms of our reserve coverage versus the real exposure.

So on the left side is commercial, the non-earning assets at $4.5 billion. We are up $1.3 billion from year-end. It is about 2% of our financing receivables. If you look at the next three bars, this is the benefit of being a senior secured lender. You can see we expect $1.4 billion of 100% recovery. We are so overcollateralized that we have a very secure position. We have $1 billion of recovery that we will get estimated on things that are in work-out where we are going to have to do some form of restructuring, but we expect a full recovery or cure.

We have $1.2 billion that we believe we will recover based on the collateral value and we work like crazy to make sure we get that right and then that leaves a $900 million loss exposure on non-earning where, with $2 billion of reserves on the commercial side, is 220% coverage. So when we look at the senior secured lending benefits that we have here and our positions by business, item by item, loan by loan, we feel like we're in pretty good shape here. But again, this is going to continue to rise as we go through the year.

On the right side is the consumer non-earnings of $5.5 billion. That is up $700 million over year-end. It represents 4% of our financing receivables. But the consumer dynamics are pretty different if you compare mortgage and non-mortgage assets. So I think the first deduct from the $5.5 billion is $1.6 billion of non-mortgage assets. These are our private-label credit card and retail sales finance and other consumer non-mortgage assets that are delinquent. We have got $3.2 billion of non-mortgage reserves. So we have maintained over 200% coverage on those assets and feel pretty good about where we are on that and externally that compares with other financial companies as well.

On the mortgage side, we have got $3.9 billion of non-earnings. Again, we think we have $1.3 billion that will cure based on a portfolio detailed loan-by-loan underwriting of our risk team. We have an estimated collateral value of about $2 billion and we think we have about $300 million of mortgage insurance benefits. So with the estimated exposure, we are still at 160% coverage.

And one additional point on mortgages. When a mortgage goes over 360 days past due for us, we mark that property to realizable value. So included in the mortgage non-earnings is about $600 million of mortgages that are over 360, but they are marked at realizable value and we took about $60 million of marks on those mortgages in the quarter and they mark every quarter. So once you go over a year, we're at basically fair value. So we believe we are appropriately covered for the non-earning loss exposure.

Next is an update on origination. Jeff talked about it a little bit; I mentioned it. For the quarter, we originated $32 billion of unbooked assets. You can see it by business here. With our collections and sales and securitization of about $43 billion, we had a reduction in ending that investment of $11 billion in the quarter and we also had additional asset declines because of the strong dollar translation. But that is about 44% of our total year plan. So we are ahead of our plan in terms of collection versus originations and we're seeing good opportunities to make loans.

We see the returns are above 2%, we expect to increase our volume in the second quarter. We have got more capacity and we're going to do it in the commercial lending and leasing, as well as in the verticals. We have got a pretty good pipeline. We do have the capacity to buy some distressed assets. We are evaluating the PPIP, being an investor there. We're going to continue to shrink our mortgage business. In the quarter, originations were a little under $500 million down 89% and that will continue to shrink as we go forward.

We do see opportunities associated with the global stimulus, as Jeff mentioned, in areas like renewables and we're going to maintain our pricing discipline. Right now, this is good news. We are managing our collections and originations to meet our funding plan and since we are ahead of that plan, we have additional capacity that we can take advantage of opportunities in the quarter and our teams have a nice pipeline that they have put together. So first-quarter volume was a little below plan, but it is a positive as we have capacity to increase lending as we go forward here at pretty good rates.

So to wrap up the capital section, I thought I would come back to the outline of the stress cases from the March 19 meeting. This is the same data that was presented then. There is no one case that fits all our different business dynamics as I described by business a few pages ago and as Mike Neal said on the 19th, we are not taking a specific case or outlook. Our overall view of the Q1 results would be that the Q1 credit loss and impairments are running to the original outlook; however, the leading indicators -- unemployment, GDP, delinquency, non-earnings -- would suggest caution as you think about the rest of the year.

So we are going to have lower costs, we are going to have higher volume as we move into Q2 and Q3 and Q4, but we don't have a specific case that we are picking here. I think we have given a lot of information for you to be able to go back to the 19th framework business by business and say how do you feel about the estimates, the economic assumptions and where do you want to put GE Capital. But even in the most adverse case, we don't foresee the need for additional capital and based on everything we know today, we expect GE Capital to be profitable for the year.

So let me turn to infrastructure and media. I am going to start with NBCU. Jeff Zucker and the team had a very challenging environment and some tough timing comparisons, which I'm going to cover here. As I said in March at the 19th meeting, the business and the industry are having a challenging time given the economy, but in Q1, NBC was also hit by other one-time impacts like the Super Bowl or the film DVD schedule that further hurt the results and on this page and the next page, I'm going to show you how the run rate for NBC is really down 15% to 25% in this tough environment and the 45% is overstated because of some of these one-time timing issues.

The highlight for the business continues to be the very strong cable performance. Revenue was up 7% and op profit was up 19%. We have got positive sub fees and then positive ad sales, as well as good cost controls. In terms of operating profit, cable was strong everywhere. If you look, Bravo was up 41%, USA was up 15%, Oxygen was up over 100%. USA was number one for the 11th consecutive quarter, MSNBC had a great quarter. Op profit was up 28%; they beat CNN in the morning and prime in adults 25 to 54. CNBC, up 20%. It had its best performance in total business day viewers since 2001, really performing well. So great performance out of cable and that continues and that will continue as we go forward.

Broadcast, while cable was strong, there was pressure in broadcast. Revenue was up 6% driven by the Super Bowl, but op profit was down about $165 million from last year, driven by three things really -- the cost of the Super Bowl, the tough ad market, which really affected local stations and then higher programming costs versus last year because last year, we had the writers strike in the first quarter, which gave us a favorable impact in terms of the cost of programming.

On the film and parks, they also had a tough quarter. For film, revenue was down 9% and op profit was down $118 million. Home video is the largest driver here. We had about 5 million fewer DVDs with tough comparisons. Last year in the first quarter, we had very popular DVDs like the Borne movie and American Gangster and we had very few this year in terms of comparison from the fourth-quarter launches. We also had higher film development costs than last year. So there are some real timing issues in the quarter. I will show you as we go forward, the rest of the year looks a lot better. The parks were down about $29 million in the quarter and that is from lower attendance. We are seeing an impact of the recession, down about 20% in attendance in Orlando and Hollywood.

Another highlight for the business is in digital. Hulu continues to be very successful. It's now the number two video website. We are very excited about the progress there. It is also a highlight that the team is working incredibly hard on making sure the cost structure is right in this tough environment. We're going to continue to reduce costs and one other drag we had, we wrote off about [$16] million on one of our media investments, Ion, in the quarter. So that covers a lot of one-time items and different timing impacts. On the next page, I am going to try take a view and put it back together for you so you can see how we think about this operationally.

On the left side is the walk from the first quarter reported $391 million of op profit, down 45% and if you look at the adjusting items, first of all, the Super Bowl doesn't repeat. The Super Bowl was an incredible ratings success, but those ratings carry with it the proportional share of the rights fees for the NFL contract. And so the cost of producing the Super Bowl and the rights fees in total left us with a $45 million one-time drag in the quarter.

The film timing, as I said, on the DVDs and some parks -- the parks had some timing with comparisons in the quarter versus last year. That could add another nine points. The impairments we had were nonoperational and the writers strike obviously is just a one-time thing that doesn't continue through the year. So on a normalized basis, we see the op profit here down somewhere between 15% and 25% and that leaves you the operational drivers. Cable is going to continue to be strong. We're going to continue to see pressure in the local stations in advertising and we are going to see continued pressure from the economy.

So on the right side, if you look at the rest of the year, we expect to continue to have a great performance from cable. In the third quarter, we're going to get about $150 million favorability just by not having a repeat of the Beijing Olympics and the financial impact of that. The film schedule is much more positive through the rest of the year, including DVDs and that already started with the success of Fast and Furious, which was from early April. And then on the bottom, we will continue to see pressure from the economy and there could be impairments, additional impairments. There could be other gains from asset sales. So we put this page in to try and give you a better operational view of NBC performance and a fair base line for how to think about the balance of the year.

Next is technology infrastructure. John Rice and the team delivered revenues of $10.4 billion, which were basically flat. 42% of our revenues in tech infra come from services and they were up about 5%. Segment profit of $1.8 billion was up 6%. You can see the key business results on the bottom left.

I'll start with the aviation business. They had a very good quarter obviously. Orders in the quarter were $5.5 billion, up 6%. Major equipment orders were $2.8 billion. That was down 4%. We had $1.1 billion of commercial engine orders, which were down 26%, but that was offset by military engine orders of $1.5 billion, which was up 60%. We ended the quarter with a major equipment backlog at $21.6 billion, up 12% versus the first quarter and up 4% versus the end of last year. So even with a full commercial book, this business had a very good orders quarter, which positions us well as we continue to deal with the economy.

Service orders were very strong, up 18%. We have commercial spares up 10%. The average daily order rate was $21.6 million a day. Commercial overhauls were up 14% and the CSA orders in the quarter were very positive, which resulted in a backlog of $56 billion at the end of the quarter. It is up $4 billion from last year's first quarter.

Revenue in the quarter was up 12% driven by the double-digit growth in both equipment and service and the military engine shipments of 185 engines, they are up 50% and that more than offset the commercial engine shipments of 494 units, which were down 9%.

Op profit in the quarter here you can see is up 39%. They had a very good quarter in terms of price and productivity. We also benefited here from some one-time transactions that I mentioned on the items page. If you look, we increased our controlling interest in a service technology business in Singapore. That resulted in a gain. We sold the business from the Smiths acquisition, which wasn't really core and that also resulted in a gain and those gains were partially offset, if you look year over year, by lower partnership sales from the first quarter of 2008. So excluding all the transactions, the op profit here would've been up about 12% on revenue growth of 7%. Still a very good performance and overall a great performance including the transactions.

Next is healthcare. Orders of $3.6 billion were down 8%. That is a pretty good result in this environment. We are seeing very tough conditions in the healthcare world in both US and Europe. Overall orders equipment was down 11%, Services were down 2%, total DI was down 22%, life sciences was a positive up 5% and if you look regionally on equipment, US was down 16%, Europe was down about the same and China was up 23%. We had a bright spot and Asia, China, Japan were both very strong, but it was a tough quarter in terms of orders pretty much across all the productlines.

Revenue for the quarter was down 9% with equipment down 10% and service down 7% and op profit was down 22%. It is really driven by negative volume and a little bit of foreign exchange. We got hurt a little bit with foreign exchange here. So as you look forward at healthcare, we expect this variance is going to improve through the year. We have a couple of things. One, OEC will continue to ramp up as we have additional productlines coming out at higher margins and the comparison periods get easier from a timing and relationship to last year perspective.

Next is transportation. Total orders of $940 million were down 10%. Our equipment backlog ended the quarter at $2.8 billion, which is down about $400 million from year-end. We said we're going to have tough equipment orders here and we are looking for somewhere around 500 locomotives for the year. Revenues in the quarter were up 2% driven by Services up 5%, which is a nice story and equipment was down about 2% and the op profit was down 15%. It is basically driven by negative product mix. We have fewer AC locomotives and some of our international program investments had higher costs with them. So overall, a mixed environment. We are doing a lot of restructuring in the technology infrastructure segment to reduce our costs and with that, I will switch over to energy.

Energy infrastructure, John Krenicki and the energy team had a very strong quarter, another very strong quarter in a string of them. Revenues of $8.2 billion were up 7%. 47% of the segment revenues come from services here and segment profit of $1.3 billion was up 19%. You can see the business results on the bottom left with both energy and oil and gas delivering double-digit growth.

If you look at energy, energy orders of $6.6 billion in total were down 20%. They are still strong at an absolute level and only $300 million lower than revenue in the quarter. So we're still operating at a very high absolute level of orders here. Thermal orders of $1.1 billion were down 50%. We had $500 million of the Iraq order pushed into Q2 as Jeff said, which would have taken their total equipment orders up by another 15 points. We received orders for 18 gas turbines. The thermal backlog is around $8 billion, which is up 7% from last year. It is down 6% from year-end. It would have been flat with the Iraq order.

Wind orders of $1.7 billion were down 8% and air orders of $186 million were down 59%. Service orders were strong up 4% and our CSA backlog ended the quarter at almost $40 billion, up $5 billion from a year ago and $400 million from year-end. So revenue at energy was up 9% driven by thermal. They had good equipment; it was up 55%. We shipped 42 gas turbines. That was up six from last year and very strong pricing from the backlog, up 5%. Wind was down 2%. We shipped 433 units; that was down 130 units, but the price was up 6% and service revenues were up 3%. Op profit was up 23%. That is driven by the strong volume in pricing in thermal and the service op profit was up 1% as price and productivity were partially offset by inflation on some CSA contracts.

Oil and gas had another strong quarter also. Orders of $1.9 billion were down 1% in dollars. However FX-adjusted, they were up 15%, so there was a lot of global activity. We had $150 million of orders for natural gas compression equipment. That is up 90%. It is nice to see us getting some orders for extraction of natural gas. We also had $560 million of orders for pipelines in LNG, including a $340 million East to West pipeline order in China, which is a great win for the team.

The equipment backlog ended the quarter at $6.3 billion. It is up $100 million from year-end and revenues were up 1% driven by growth in both the petrochemical and the refinery equipment. Service revenue was down 1%. Both were up over 10% if you adjust for FX. So a good global quarter and op profit was up 11% driven by volume, price, productivity and is partially offset by FX. So overall, just a really solid performance by the energy team in a tougher environment and with that, let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. Just to wrap up, I think we are operating GE in this environment the way investors would want us to. We are running GE Capital to be safe and secure. We have got a solid funding with $47 billion of cash and $38 billion of tangible equity. We have earned $1.1 billion in the first quarter. We will be profitable for '09 and we expect originations to accelerate in the second quarter through the fourth quarter and that is at higher margins and we think that portends well for the balance of '09 and into '10 and '11.

We have positioned our infrastructure businesses I think to really weather the cycle and to do well. The first-quarter segment profit was up 11%. We expect a difficult period, but I think one of the things is that, as GE, we have really a lot of mitigants to offset this. We are good at services and services is one of our differentiators in this environment and we think that is important. The backlog is good. We have got lots of ways to work with our customers on the backlog.

We think we are very well-positioned on the stimulus. We have got a global network of national executives. We're well represented. We are in the right technologies and so I think we feel good about that. We have got lots of new R&D investments that we are making that we think add to our ability to grow in 2010 and 2011.

And look, some of these one-timers we didn't let fall through. We put $400 million into restructuring. It is the kind of thing you would expect us to do. That is going to help improve our cost out and the rest of the year. And so I think there is a lot of mitigants despite the fact we are in a very difficult period.

The media space is tough, but as Keith pointed out, I think the total year will exceed our first-quarter run rate. The industrial cash flow, we have got lots of teams working on working capital and our ability to offset the decline in progress payments and we think the run rate will be on track to be between $15 billion and $16 billion for the year.

And lastly, we are committed to transparency. The supplemental schedule will be in addition to our 10Q this quarter and will feature lots of additional disclosures. We have got the EPG meeting in May. We plan to have another GE Capital meeting early in the summer. So we are just going to keep this drum beat up of transparency and disclosure and we think it is important where we are in the economy.

So the economy remains tough. I think there is places where we can still win and we are positioning the Company to excel as we come out of this in 2010, 2011 or whenever that takes place. So Trevor, let me turn it back over to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, Jeff. Noelia, I think we're ready to switch over to the questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Nicole Parent, Credit Suisse.

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning, guys. My last question on GE ever, big picture. Keith, you made a point of saying that Q1 results really aren't indicative of the full year. I guess theoretically you kind of acknowledged provisions at Capital are going to move higher over the course of the year. NBCU down 20% is indicative of how we should think about it for the full year. Healthcare worse than what we thought, probably doesn't get better and the cancellation numbers at energy infrastructure going up. And I can appreciate that you have gotten away from giving quarterly guidance, but why when we add all that up, wouldn't we change the framework for the industrial side of the portfolio?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think my main comment was about NBCU that the quarter results were indicative of the full year and I tried to show you how to think about that. I think it also does apply to some of the healthcare read that you said. But if you put the pieces back together, we think we're going to have a very strong year in the energy infrastructure space. You can see the first quarter was very good and if you look at the backlog and the position that they have, you look at the Services business that they have, you look at the wind business, including what we think we are going to benefit from in stimulus as we go through the year, the oil and gas business has a good set of orders and a good backlog, we feel very good about the strength in energy and energy infrastructure as you look at the total year.

For tech infrastructure, we were up 6% in the quarter. We think we are going to be positive for the year. We have got a lot of work going on to reduce our costs. I think you do have some easier comparisons as you get into the second half on some of the businesses there, but we feel very good about that. If you adjust the NBC to the run rate that we said for the rest of the year -- you get $150 million on a variance just from the Olympics alone in the third quarter. We think we are still in the framework. We are not giving guidance. It is not dramatic enough that it would be something that we would change I don't think today, Nicole and I would like Jeff to add some comments to it.

JEFF IMMELT: I would say the same thing, Nicole. I think in a very realistic way, having $171 billion in backlog is a real luxury when you think about 2009. This really doesn't even include -- we haven't booked most of the Iraq order yet and cash there, so that I think gives some buoyancy to the energy infrastructure segment.

I think when you think about aviation being probably at a run rate of 10% to 15% for the year, it can offset some down quarters in healthcare and transportation. I think transportation actually solidifies during the year. Healthcare is probably the one with the least visibility right now.

And in media, again, I think Keith laid out a pretty good framework to think about media. So I don't know. I think it is always difficult to bridge between not giving guidance and giving a framework and things like that, but when I look at the puts and takes, I don't think there is really a reason to change right now. And then I think -- when I think about the stimulus -- look, I think we will do better than most on the stimulus. That is a little bit of '09, but I really look at that more as '10 and '11.

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at Services in the quarter, Services were about $8.3 billion of revenue out of energy infrastructure and tech infrastructure. That is about 44%, but it represents somewhere around 70% of our profit. I think that Services' ongoing stream is what really helps to strengthen the industrial outlook even with a tougher equipment orders view that we know we are going to have as we go forward.

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly.

NICOLE PARENT: And I guess just to that point on healthcare, I mean you have had kind of -- the industry has had abysmal equipment orders for a long time. So how does that translate into service? Are people more inclined to actually ramp up service because they are not replacing the equipment or does it impact just timeline-wise because you haven't had the equipment sales that you might have in a different type of environment?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I would say, Nicole, there are two factors going on. One is the Services grow by installed base and then dollars per installed base. So the installed base has been flat at best, but the dollars per installed base has been growing. And then the other one is healthcare information technology, which we show in the service numbers. And I would say even though I am bullish about healthcare IT later this year, I think there has just been a lot of uncertainty about where the government programs are going to go and who is going to qualify. And I think if anything, that had a negative impact on Q1 that may unwind as the year goes on.

NICOLE PARENT: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citi Investment Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you, good morning, everyone. Just a couple items. First, just on this question of tax, Keith, and how it inter-relates with the various outlook. So it sounds like in terms of the expected loss performance at Capital, you are somewhere between original outlook and fed base case. But it would seem from the way you laid things out, the tax benefits toggle pretty substantially based on the loss performance at Capital. And I tried to follow everything you said on tax in the quarter, but it seems like even adjusting for what you said, tax is running more towards what we would have expected, somewhere between the base case and adverse case for Capital in terms of the pretax and the resulting tax credits that would have been generated. Can you just provide a little more clarity on how to frame that for the rest of the year?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I will take a shot at it. If you look at GE Capital in the first quarter, we had about $1.2 billion of tax credits. That is [1160]. $700 million of the benefit in total in GE Capital Services off the income statement comes from this one-time permanent reinvestment. That is not something that you would plan on having to repeat, but if you wanted to get to a run rate, you ought to take a quarter of it and put it into the results. And if you adjust the $1.1 billion earnings that GE Capital has either at the GE Capital Finance level or you could do it off the income statement, basically if you adjust for the $700 million and you put a quarter of it in the run rate, at the end of the day, it comes out to be about $700 million of net income for GE Capital adjusted for tax.

So I think the tax benefits are somewhere around 500 in GE Capital without the one-time benefit and you could run that forward through the year and then take a quarter of the $700 million benefit and kind of have it be -- that is where we are right now for run rate. Now the thing I would say to caution you is if the losses go higher and those losses are in high-tax places, GE will be able to use those tax losses and then the tax credit number at GE Capital could be higher as you move towards the right side of those risk cases, Jeff. Does that tie it together a little bit?

JEFF SPRAGUE: That helps. And just looking at equity sequentially, it did trend down again both in Capital and -- well, it is up in capital, but not up in keeping with the capital injection in the quarter and on a consolidated basis, it is drifting lower against the net income number. Can you reconcile that?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look for GE Capital, we had $53 billion of equity at the beginning of the quarter and we went to $60 billion at the end of the quarter. It is up $7.5 billion. The $9.5 billion infusion that we put in was offset partially by mostly a strong dollar. Our currency translation account was about $3 billion in the quarter. Offsetting that, we had the retained earnings obviously from the income.

So at the end of the day, the strong dollar did hurt us in terms of equity. I think since the time those rates have been established in March, the dollar has weakened a little bit and some of that I think will come back as we go into the second quarter. But the biggest driver is going to be the CTA change.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then just finally --.

KEITH SHERIN: The same thing on the GE -- for the GE level, at the total company level, instead of $3 billion, that is about $4 billion.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay. And then just finally from me on cash flow, so it appears to be tracking to your expectations, but I guess if you still look at it, you are down 24% or $1 billion on industrial on roughly flat industrial profits at the segment level. So there was the comment that progress in working capital were largely offsetting, but that doesn't seem to reconcile with actually the year-over-year cash drop. Is there something else going on in the industrial cash flow in the quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: No, if you look at in the quarter, industrial net income was $1.9 billion. We had about $600 million of depreciation. We had a decline of progress of about $800 million, and we had $1.5 billion of other working capital. So we had a very good performance in receivables and everything else.

And then other CFOA was about a $400 million drag, which is a little bit of the long-term incentive plan payment and some restructuring funding. So the team is really focused on working capital, and we feel pretty good about the progress we've made. We have got an operating council running every month, and we actually were a little ahead of where we thought we were to come out when you look at cash in the quarter at the $2.8 billion level.

In addition if you think about it, we missed -- that Iraq order slipped into second quarter. That is $500 million of progress that is included in this $2.8 billion we didn't get. So that rolled into Q2 for us.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Keith, on the industrial tax rate, 31% a good run rate at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: It is a little high in the quarter, again, as we had to adjust and book $500 million to get to the total-year estimate. A little of that happened at the industrial level and a little of that -- about half happened industrial, have happened to capital. We would expect a high 20s tax rate for industrial for the year, is the current estimate.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Then, you know, wondering if you can help us with kind of the year-over-year deltas in the pretax earnings at GE Capital, or any color around that or how to allocate the tax benefit, or anything that could help us understand the moving pieces on a pretax basis?

KEITH SHERIN: I am going to have to have these guys get back to you on that. I don't have a schedule on it, so we will have Trevor and Joanna get back to you, Terry, on it.

TERRY DARLING: And then lastly on sort of this point about your capacity to help fund, you know, customer business this year, if tight credit markets create a shortfall, like I am sort of forgetting whether that number was $10 billion or $15 billion. But I am wondering kind of where you are with that number at this point. Is that -- did you burn through a significant amount of that in the first quarter, or do you still see strong capacity there? Just maybe update us there.

KEITH SHERIN: I think that what I was trying to show you on the volume page is that the first quarter was a little lower, and we think we've got about $10 billion of incremental capacity here.

JEFF IMMELT: Kerry, you are talking about funding our own backlog?

TERRY DARLING: Yes.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, we really didn't do really any of that in Q1, but I kind of -- I think we need to stand ready to do some. In other words, my sense is the way some of these stimulus packages might work is the government is going to create, for instance, an energy bank. We may have an opportunity to invest side-by-side on wind farms and things like that.

So what I would say, Terry, is that we have created about $10 billion to be able to do it. We really didn't use any in Q1, but we have got some dry powder that we can use in the rest of the year. And my sense is the way some of the stimulus programs might work, it might offer some good opportunity for us to go side by side with the government in a few of these things.

TERRY DARLING: Okay, and just slip one more quick one if I could. The discussion around the stress tests, I know you have been clear that you do not expect to be subject to a stress test. But I just wanted to confirm that you don't think anything has changed there.

JEFF IMMELT: I think the answer is we don't -- since we are not a bank holding company, we don't expect to be subject to the stress tests, but I think what we tried to reflect on the 19th, and what we have tried to reflect today and what we reflect in every GE Capital meeting is that, for our investors, we want to try to hold ourselves to the same standards and we want to share the same level of data. So we have really tried to -- I am not sure we will do 180 pages each time, but what we are trying to do is give the same disclosures that banks more or less do and then even though we are not subject to some of the same regulations.

KEITH SHERIN: Just to be clear on the stress tests, we did not get direct guidance or input from the government on that. We used what we thought were the best estimates with the help from all the investment banks on what it would look like and we made our stress cases based on the assumptions that were publicly announced. So we did the best we could to try and at least give a communication about how we felt about GE Capital into those different environments that the government had laid out.

TERRY DARLING: Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. Just a quick one on tax. I'm sorry to keep on banging about tax, but obviously you are utilizing the tax losses in the US against your income you are earning within GE. Is there an upper bound on the -- is there a level above which you wouldn't be able to use those losses and therefore the carryforward?

KEITH SHERIN: I am sure there is at some point. There is not one that we would anticipate today. For the high-tax losses in the US, we believe that we have plenty of capacity with the US earnings to be a loss at those and we actually pay GE Capital for those losses. So you would have to be at some level that I couldn't even imagine to have that be something you couldn't monetize.

NIGEL COE: Okay, great.

KEITH SHERIN: You have to be careful internationally country by country, but for the majority of what we are dealing with here, that is not an issue.

NIGEL COE: So you are nowhere near hitting that feeling, okay. And then secondly, obviously debt reduction in GE Capital was very strong, I think about $21 billion. What was that number excluding FX?

KEITH SHERIN: On the debt reduction?

NIGEL COE: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: I will have to get back to you on that.

NIGEL COE: Okay, great. And then just a --

KEITH SHERIN: Debt reduction excluding FX?

NIGEL COE: Right. And then thirdly, on the -- obviously, the interest costs came down a lot in GE Capital as well, low leverage and lower rates. You mentioned that you wanted to test (inaudible) market at some point this year. Do you have any sense on when that might happen and what kind of yields you might expect?

KEITH SHERIN: We will have to see. At the end of the year, the capital markets were pretty good and we did a 30 year, we did some five year in Europe and last night, we saw some financial companies do some unsecured, unguaranteed. That was very encouraging and we are just going to -- we don't need any capacity right now obviously, so we have the time to take a look and evaluate it. But we do think we will be back in the unsecured, unguaranteed market. We will have to obviously watch the cash spreads. I think we watch JPMorgan as the benchmark today and where they are and we will have to see how the capital markets unfold. But there have been some obviously positive signs. The CP market is very strong and robust and I am encouraged to see some of the other capital market signs opening up here.

NIGEL COE: But do you think you get better rates today than you would have two months ago, than you did two months ago?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think we are -- when we say that the capital markets are open enough, we will get rates that are competitive enough that we can earn 2.5 plus returns with that cost of funds. That is what I would say.

NIGEL COE: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Stephen Winoker, Sanford Bernstein.

STEVEN WINOKER, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. First question is around inventory levels. Can you give me a sense for when you see inventory level decelerations slowing down in your own inventory on the equipment side for industrial? Are you still taking out inventory?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think inventory for the quarter, if you look at what we had in our cash flow results for working capital, it was basically flat in the quarter while we are ramping up for higher shipments here as we get into the second quarter. So we are working on lean all across the Company, but it didn't have a big cash flow impact. It was about a $200 million delta.

STEVEN WINOKER: And do you see going forward the trajectory of that changing?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. We are going to have to continue to lower inventory as we go through the year obviously with the -- the interesting thing is, if you look at the energy business with the continued growth in equipment as we are delivering this backlog, you need inventory. If you look at the aviation business, we have still got a very robust backlog, a lot of equipment. I think if you get out of those two big long cycle businesses, we are going to see inventory down in transportation, we will see inventory down in healthcare, we will see inventory down in equipment services. Inventory has obviously been down in appliances.

So I think it goes with how our outlook goes and right now in energy infrastructure, the outlook is still very strong and that's going to continue to keep a high level of inventory, but the lean focus, we are trying to make sure we are more efficient across the whole portfolio. But it is probably not a big, big driver until you get towards the end of the year into next year.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay and on the customer channel side, are they continuing to destock? Are you seeing that as well?

JEFF IMMELT: Stephen, the only place that -- we are such a long cycle, project-oriented business where our customers don't sell out of inventory per se. I would say the healthcare market had its own cadence. People just weren't ordering much. And then I think if you look at appliance run rates, appliance run rates have gotten sequentially better, which would indicate that there is either -- our customers are building inventory or there is better demand from our consumers.

KEITH SHERIN: With the appliance cycle, we are 16 months into this cycle in terms of home building and the inventory rebalance levels have been pretty robust already at the retailers. So now we are kind of seeing flow-through with our order rates.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay. And the last question is on provisioning and the loan loss ratio. JPMorgan and some of these other guys are coming out with sort of on-average LLRs of 4% plus, 4.5%. I know some of that is due to the mix of business and you certainly took us through the detail in slides 16 to 18. But in terms of how you think about an optimal loss reserve ratio in the near term given the charge-off rates, are you -- and you talk about increasing that over time. How far away are you from what you consider to be appropriate given what banks -- how far ahead banks are reserving for net charge-offs?

KEITH SHERIN: I think we did cover some of that today, but I think you have got to go back to the March 19th meeting where Jeff Bornstein laid out trying to compare the actual product composition mix that we have to the product competition mix banks have and say, okay, how are you reserved based on that?

I think on the consumer side, we feel like we are exactly in line with what other banks are based on our credit portfolio and our risk profile. So we think we're there. We think we are there on the mortgage side, but we have a different mortgage portfolio, dramatically different than what the banks have, so it is hard to compare directly. We don't have any US mortgage exposure, as you know. And I think right now when we look at 1.59% in the quarter, that is the appropriate level for where we are based on the risk we have. We have said that we think that reserve coverage will go up to around 2% as we get through this year and so we just think we are appropriately reserved. We think we are going to put up more reserves as we have more delinquencies in non-earnings and we think the reserve coverage is going to increase as we go into the balance of 2009.

STEVEN WINOKER: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning, guys. I think just to follow on that question a bit, the slide on page 19 is very interesting. The assumptions on the workouts and collateral value, things like that, is that based on historical, is that some sort of adjusted assumption based on what you are expecting in the future? How do you kind of get to those numbers?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Our risk team has a loan-by-loan, bottoms-up evaluation of our exposure here in the non-earnings. They have to evaluate each case for the specifics of the creditor and the collateral. We do have historical values obviously on things like our collateral estimates, but we have to adjust them for what the markets are. For example, we have some corporate jets we got back in the quarter. We had marks on those to bring them to fair market value. So I think we have some history, but these are based on what we think we are going to realize based on today's look loan by loan of these individual asset exposures. So it has got to be current.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And then just looking at the supplemental, it looks like for both real estate and GECAS, it was pretty limited. I know these are long-lived assets, so you don't have to mark things down to market, but presumably there are some assets that don't pass the impairment test. There was really nothing written down this quarter of note. Is that a timing issue? Can you just give us a little detail on that?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, there weren't really any -- there was very minor impairments in GECAS and no write-offs really to speak of. I think it is $1 million, right? That was last year, so there was nothing in the quarter. If you look -- in real estate, there were about $70 million of impairments and those are the equity properties where you don't pass the cash flow test. The cash flow estimates that you have over the life of the property are resulting in a value that is less than your book value and then you are writing down to fair market value. We had about $70 million there. So that is based on a property-by-property analysis using today's rates on vacancy, rent expectations as we go forward, occupancy in the individual properties.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And last question -- well, actually, a little nit picky one here. The tax credit, is there a cash versus noncash component of those credits?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, there may be timing between GE and getting that credit from the government. But generally at the end of the day, within an 18 month, two-year period, you are going to be all equal on cash versus the government in terms of refunds or in terms of the return impact. Between GE and GE Capital, it is usually settled within a quarter.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And then last question just for you, Jeff, on healthcare since you have known the business for such a long time. When you think about what some of the things going on in diagnostic equipment, you could make an argument that there is a cycle impact here with macro conditions. You could also make an argument that there are some secular changes with just government stopped being able to kind of afford the healthcare promise to folks and reimbursement rates are going to continuously -- it seems like every couple of years, they get lowered on a global basis.

How do you think about some of these secular shifts and also just -- we understand that your pricing model may have changed a bit over the last couple quarters where you are more of a discounting the product upfront to sign up service contracts. Can you talk just a little bit big picture about what you see in healthcare?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, I think the US market in particular is very tough right now for two reasons. One is that the overall economy, as it goes down, hospitals -- their endowments and stuff like that have less money and they are going to spend less money on capital equipment. That is one factor.

I think the other factor is just great uncertainty. People say, okay, there is going to be some changes in healthcare spend and reimbursements and things like that, so I think people are sitting on their hands.

Underlying that is just -- I would say procedure growth does continue and the growth outside the United States does continue. So I think just to kind of weave through your question though, Scott, we believe that the US diagnostic imaging market, the US diagnostic imaging equipment market is going to be at a lower level. I don't know if it is the first-quarter run rate, but it is going to be at a lower level for maybe an extended period of time as people work through the changes that get made overall on healthcare.

In terms of changing our business model, we really haven't changed the way we approach it. It is a competitive market. We like having the service revenue and I think the service business actually in healthcare over the long term is very well-positioned, probably positioned better than competition and it has every chance to continue to grow.

KEITH SHERIN: Just a couple of clarifications if I could on the schedules that Scott asked about. The schedule on non-earnings and write-offs does not include impairments, so that is why you don't see anything in GECAS or in real estate. The $70 million I mentioned happened in real estate. And the second thing is on the debt reduction versus the fourth quarter, for Nigel, we had a reported debt reduction of 22, ex-FX, that is 13.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks. Just going back to your comment on the commercial business and the cycle looks adverse I think and the delinquencies did rise pretty significantly. Maybe you could just sort of flesh out your view there and I have a couple other questions. I mean what is embedded in your view for the business in overall Capital staying profitable for the year with regard to the commercial cycle at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, that is what we see today. We said we would be profitable for the year and we've taken into account kind of the outlook we have. If you look at the commercial cycle, I think if you see the delinquencies and you see the non-earnings, we know we're going to have pressure here. The teams are all over it in terms of risk management and restructuring to protect our asset values.

I think if you go back to the 19th meeting in a place like real estate, you look at our underwriting discipline, you look at our cross-collateralization that we're focused on, you look at the level of loan to value that we put into places. I think there are just things that are different about how we run the business that are going to help us to have lower losses in a cycle like this.

If you look over time at our leverage loan portfolio, we have had 1.5 to 2 basis points over a 15-year period of lower losses than what the average is for the banks in that category of asset classes. That is because we take a senior secured position, we take smaller holds, we are more diversified. But we are going to have higher losses as this economy rolls.

So I think we have tried to outline that. The best way to think about it is to use the business results page that I showed you and then go back to the 19th meeting and look at the three cases. The retail case looks a little better on the consumer side. The mortgage case probably is pressured. On the commercial side, the real estate case is back to our op plan right now, but I think everybody would agree based on the market that is out there with delinquencies and vacancies and the economy that we are going to be more pressured as we go through the year.

So I think we're going to have a tough commercial cycle. I think the losses are going to exceed what they have in the past in cycles that we have seen. We expect that. It may be a lag effect though. It may not be as fast as what others have predicted. It may be dragged out a little. Maybe that is part of your question, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Well, in one of the slides you showed and one of the meetings as you got into more detail, you talked about the commercial cycle peak loss is 1.4% looking back 20 years. I guess the question we all would like to know the answer to this, in your guys' minds, where do those losses peak as a percent and when? What is the timing? Is it 2009 or 2010 and --?

KEITH SHERIN: Jeff has asked me that question and it is like knowing what the market is going to do. It is just too hard, Bob, I think to say. I think, right now, we are grinding it out and we have come from a period where people thought the world was going to end to a period that is a little better. And I think today you look and there are some signs in the economy that are a little better. But we know that unemployment is going to continue to rise, as Jeff said and that we are going to have a tough commercial real estate cycle. But I can't say that we have got enough visibility to be able to give you a good answer to that.

JEFF IMMELT: I think what we tried to do on the 19th, Bob, is to maybe not predict it, but to show you how seriously we are taking it as a company, how many good people we have working on it, that we have tried to be conservative and realistic as we go through it. We have been through the cycle before. Our risk people are 25, 30-year veterans, people like [Jane Day] and some of the other people you saw. I think that is the best we can do right now. I think --.

BOB CORNELL: One follow-up question for you guys. When you go out in the market and you hear a lot of anecdotal evidence about how GE is really tightening up the screws in an effort to get collections to the point where you are putting some of the companies in distress to get the money out. I mean what is your view there with regard to the level of stress you are putting on some of your customers relative to the long-term marketshare you'd like to get in the business?

JEFF IMMELT: Well, I'd make a couple comments, Bob. The first one is the fourth quarter last year, maybe even the beginning of '09, these are extraordinary times. We had collections ahead of originations and we went through a lot of changes in the field and things like that, but we have got big franchises here, big important franchises. We are doing a lot of funding on DIPs. We are doing a lot of asset-backed financing and the page Keith showed you on originations says that we are going to do -- we did about $69 billion of funding in Q1 and we ought to do $150 billion -- probably in quarter two through four, we will do another kind of $140 billion, $150 billion of originations. So we are in this to stay and we are in it for the long term. We have gone through an extraordinary time period, but we have got a good franchise.

KEITH SHERIN: I think we have some balance. We are a senior secured lender. We take it seriously in terms of getting our money back. We always have and we have got to be professional about that and we have got to think about our impact in the marketplace and our market position. But that is what a senior secured lender does and we have got to definitely balance the customer needs and what the implications are for future business. But I think as we have gone through this, I think we really want to make sure we had safe and secure collections and originations tighten down. I think now we are sitting here in a position where now we can go on offense a little more and that is a good place for us to be.

BOB CORNELL: Sounds good. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning. First question would be I guess the GECS dividend. You have indicated on slide 8 that it has now been paired to 0%. I think, Keith, it was at 10%. Was there some reason why you've paired -- like a trigger point as to why you paired to 0% and then what would be your expectation for the timing of restoring the GECS dividend just based on market conditions and what you are seeing?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we were sitting here in the first quarter, John, and when we decided to put the $9.5 billion equity infusion in, we thought it would be a little silly to take 10% of the earnings out and it wasn't a big number and we just thought it would be cleaner to say, okay, for 2009, we are going to just suspend the GECS dividend in total in the cash flow. We can handle it in our plan. It is better to be safe and secure in GE Capital. It is not a material amount and we just thought it was less confusing to be putting equity in and then taking a little amount out. So I think for our view right now, we are just going to keep it that way for 2009 and we will see as we get towards the end of the year what we think about 2010.

JOHN INCH: You had originally targeted sort of an '10 timeframe, had you not, though for restoring at least some of this?

KEITH SHERIN: We did. Yes, we did.

JOHN INCH: Has anything changed on that front?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, it hasn't, but as we showed you on the 19th, we've got to look at what the outlook is for the losses over multiple periods here and we again, would prioritize the GE Capital safe and secure is the first banner that we have been running the Company under and taking a lot of actions to do that. So I don't think we need to make a decision about the GE Capital 2010 dividend yet. We have plenty of time to do that.

JOHN INCH: I don't disagree. Can I ask you about the sort of -- if you look at the $1 billion increase in provisioning, you are sort of -- we are now running at kind of this Fed base case threshold and I think if I were to parse your commentary around the tax credits, you could also probably surmise that we are running into kind of the base case zone versus what, on the surface, looks like the adverse case zone. Does that kind of infer, Keith, that, all else equal, we are -- I heard your commentary about things could still get a little bit worse, but we are kind of running toward that slide of the $2 billion to $2.5 billion of net income for GE Capital and if that is true, --.

KEITH SHERIN: I can't answer that right, John? I mean we are not giving guidance. We have given you the three cases. I think we have given a lot of details about how to pick it in there. I think you should make your view based on what we covered today, but we feel confident that we are within those ranges with the three cases. And as I said, some businesses are left and some businesses are a little right, but we are not going to pick a number for GE Capital. We said we expect it to be profitable is kind of the way we've said it.

JOHN INCH: No, I hear you. I guess I am just thinking of the $1.1 billion that Capital just earned in net income, right? If it is closer to the middle scenario, it means that the sequential run rate is going to be a lot less.

KEITH SHERIN: It could be. It could be. I think if you look at the $1.1 billion, you have got to really adjust for annualized on the $700 million. In total, on consolidated results, it didn't fall through. But in GE Capital Finance, the $1.1 billion includes about $400 million too much of taxes in the quarter for a run rate without adjusting for any differences in losses. I think you have probably got to get back to $700 million if you just tried to normalize taxes at either the GE Capital Finance level or the GE Capital Services level.

JOHN INCH: But the provision, the $1 billion provision year over year, does that likely hold?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think if you look at 2.3 in the quarter, right, is our provision for losses, it is in excess of the write-offs. That you have got to decide, based on the cases we showed you and the different pressures by business, what do you think that is going to do as you go through the year. I think we would say that is probably going to go up.

JOHN INCH: Last question. You guys footnoted the mark-to-market rule changes that are pending. What sort of an impact is that going to have? I mean presumably it is a favorable one, but maybe you could flesh that out a little bit for us.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, as you know, the two FSPs came out after the quarter closed. There was one on other than temporary impairment and one on how to calculate fair values. I would say it is too early for us to tell you what the impact would be. We are going to work our way through that and get into the second quarter. I think we need to make sure we understand how the accounting firms are going to interpret those two FSPs.

JOHN INCH: But you will know by the second quarter, you think?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure, of course. Yes, we will adopt in the second quarter, absolutely.

JOHN INCH: Great, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Stephen Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEPHEN TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi, good morning. The GE Capital revenue I think year over year was down about $3.5 billion. Could you just maybe let us know at a high level within the different revenue categories which were the -- which ones were the biggest moving parts?

KEITH SHERIN: I am going to have to give you some of the pieces. The FX was a little over $1 billion, so quite a bit of it was driven by FX. But we will have to break it out for the -- it should be on the -- gains are also obviously a very large piece.

STEPHEN TUSA: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: Just in real estate alone, they are down $600 million.

STEPHEN TUSA: Okay. And then when you look at the total write-off number for CLL going to 265 from 498 in the fourth quarter, is that just -- is that a net number, so you are collecting better or what was the change there?

KEITH SHERIN: The change again -- if you look at the fourth quarter -- this was on provisions?

STEPHEN TUSA: Total write-offs in the supplementary slide four?

KEITH SHERIN: In total write-offs. At the end of the day, we had less accounts that went into completion of restructuring that required the write-off. In the fourth quarter, we finalized a lot more. We still have a lot of obviously accounts that are in discussions for structuring. But when they get finalized, we have to take the write-off.

STEPHEN TUSA: So we should really I mean (multiple speakers). The trend in the non-earnings and the delinquencies are more important than that write-off trend going down?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the write-off trend going down is helpful, but you have got to look at the delinquencies and non-earnings as a forward indicator. The write-offs were helpful in the quarter definitely.

STEPHEN TUSA: Okay, and then one more question. In energy infrastructure, I think last year according to your 10-K, you got about 4% to 5% of price. What was that number in the first quarter?

KEITH SHERIN: I think I had it on thermal and wind was up about 5%. I don't know what the Services number was in total, but it was very strong on equipment. I will have to get you the service number.

STEPHEN TUSA: Okay. And then one last question. Just on the -- I know you guys have a backlog and there is some timing here, but with your equipment orders running down about 20%, when does that start to actually move into revenues? Is that a second half of '09 thing or is that more of an early 2010, assuming that that trend continues?

KEITH SHERIN: I think the way we have tried to model 2009 is that you could think about, if the orders level stay at kind of the level we are at, you might be dealing with a $1 billion of revenue in excess of orders and a decline in equipment backlog a quarter. That is the way I would think about it as we go forward. Now you are going to have some lumpiness in there, but that is a rough way to think about it. It is kind of a steady dramatic -- not dramatic change as you go through.

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say though it is more an '10 and '11 type of thing on the equipment, Steve. In other words, if you go between service and equipment, particularly when you think about aviation, energy, oil and gas, transportation, stuff like that, a lot of that is in backlog.

STEPHEN TUSA: Great. Thanks a lot.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: We are over 10 o'clock, Noelia. Why don't we take one more here.

OPERATOR: Daniel Holland, Morningstar.

DANIEL HOLLAND, ANALYST, MORNINGSTAR: Good morning. Just a question on healthcare. Could you talk a little bit about how it trended through the quarter? Is there kind of any momentum pushing it through the second quarter? Any sign of good news to talk about there?

JEFF IMMELT: It was pretty tough all quarter, Dan. I think -- if you look, there wasn't any indicator that I would say that led us to see some type of spike either regionally or by product. It was a tough quarter and it stayed tough.

DANIEL HOLLAND: Okay. And just one more question on actually wind. There has been a lot of press releases, things like that regarding new wind wins out there. I'm kind of curious if you guys have seen a material pickup in activity, not necessarily on orders, but just more quoting kinds of things, things like that in the last little bit here?

JEFF IMMELT: I think the thing that has really picked up in the last month is that commitments that might have slipped out of the year because of lack of financing have now started to firm up. And so I think that is the encouraging piece because people see on the horizon that the credit markets are opening up to finance them and that the stimulus is going to have some advantages for them. So I actually think that shipments in '09 will improve in wind even while you might not see new projects announced just because there is such a lot of activity in '06, '07, '08.

KEITH SHERIN: It will still be down year over year, but I think the commitment activity, as you said, has really picked up. Just one comment on the energy services for Steve. The overall price is up 3.7. The equipment is about 5 and service was lower than that.

JEFF IMMELT: Okay, Trevor.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Thank you, everyone, for your time today. A replay will be available this afternoon and just to announce, our next earnings call will be held on July 17. As always, Joanne and I will be available to take your questions today. Thank you, everyone.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090501e54h000dz
  


 HD
 Q4  2008  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
17,668 words
   PD
23 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in listen-only mode. My name is Lauren and I will be your conference coordinator for today. (Operator Instructions) As a reminder this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Trevor Schauenberg, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.

   TD
TREVOR SCHAUENBERG, VP, INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Lauren. Good morning and welcome, everyone. JoAnna and I are pleased to host today's call. Hopefully, you have the press release from earlier this morning and the slides we will be walking through are available on our website at www.GE.com/investor. If you don't see it please refresh. You can download or print to follow along.

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes. Please interpret them in that light.

We will be reviewing the GE press release about went out earlier today and have time for Q&A at the end. For today's webcast we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Vice Chairman and CFO, Keith Sherin. Now I would like to turn it over to our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt.

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Trevor. Thanks. Good morning, everyone. First page just kind of summarizes the environment and the environment remains very difficult. Credit losses continue in financial services. The financial service industry is still under stress, so those are still tough just like we described in December. Recession and growing unemployment, again, continues just like we saw at our year-end meeting.

Two things that are mitigants. Deflation is out there and we are seeing that in our raw material purchases. And as the governments around the world fund a stimulus, a lot of this these are in the GE sweet spot of clean energy and healthcare IT. So, again, a few things better, but the environment in total is very tough.

So what I thought I would do before we dig in is just talk about how we are running the Company and our focus on doing a great job on the things we control. There is just six areas that I would cover.

The first one is just all of the management processes have been accelerated and intensified. We have changed the way the operating leaders and the cadence with which they meet. We have outlined a capital board structure that reflects our strategy. We have got compensation tools for our team that reflect earnings and cash flow. And so we have got a very strong and engaged management team dealing with this incredible environment that we are seeing.

We have diversified and protected our revenues. Services and the service business model remains robust. Our global diversity; you saw orders like the one in Iraq. We are going around the world to really pursue the growth that is out there. We have continued to invest in R&D and content and we retain the ability to finance our backlog and to finance growth as it appears to be important.

We have increased our cash focus. About $48 billion of cash on hand at the end of the year; very strong working capital and CFOA results. We did the equity raise; and our collections were ahead of originations, so we have got lots of cash on the GE Capital balance sheet.

We are executing the plan we outlined on December 2 with the financial services business model towards a smaller, more focused business. We exited some product lines at the end of the year and we think we have dramatically risk reduced financial services.

We have really attacked our cost structure. We have taken $5 billion of cost out. We have done a lot of restructuring in Q4. Deflation is accelerating and we have got fewer people and less spending.

We have positioned ourselves for the stimulus that are being offered on a global basis. Again, every country in the world is doing stimulus of some kind. We think renewables and smart grid and healthcare IT are good fits for the Company. So we have got very focused execution on the things we can control and this is how we are really driving the Company in this incredible environment.

The rest of the presentation basically cover four things. First is to kind of go back to the December meeting and talk about the results you are seeing today and what we did to prepare for 2009. We will talk about our liquidity and cash plan. Then we will go back to the framework that we outlined both in capital finance and with our infrastructure and media businesses and outline how we are driving the earnings to be on track or consistent with the framework we laid out in December.

So with that I will turn it over to Keith and talk us through those points.

KEITH SHERIN, VICE CHAIRMAN & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: All right, Jeff. I am going to start with how we completed '08 and positioned ourselves for '09. The first thing that I just wanted to highlight was a checklist of what we outlined in December starting with revenues; $183 billion. They were a little less than what was forecast at the end of the year, driven by the stronger dollar and some lower financial services revenue.

Second, restructuring and other charges. We said we would be at the high end of the $1 billion to $1.4 billion after tax. We actually came in at $1.5 billion, and I will cover in a few charts. We delivered $1.78 per share, including the impact of the preferred shares. We delivered $18 billion in net income and we were slightly above our industrial cash flow outlook. I will cover more detail on all of these as we go through the charts this morning.

The next page are the key measurements that we report every quarter for growth. Total orders were down slightly, but very strong absolute levels in this environment. And I will have a whole page on that.

For industrial sales we had 7% growth, which was pretty good in this environment; good organic growth industrially. Capital finance had assets down 2%, which is what you would expect with the actions we are taking. We delivered the EPS we said; $0.37 excludes the effects of the preferred dividend, $0.36 including the effects of the preferred dividend and aligned exactly with the way Jeff laid it out in December.

Our returns were at 14.8%. We finished the year with margins down one point, consistent with the way we operated all year. And the industrial cash flow finished the year strong; as I said, $16.7 billion, up 5%.

So I will start with a summary of the fourth quarter; on the left side is a summary of continuing operations. Revenues of $46.2 billion were down 5% in total. You can see the mix is driven by growth in the industrial sales, up 7%, and continued declines in the financial services revenue with the actions we are taking to refocus GECS.

We earned $3.8 billion in net income, which was down 44%. For earnings per share we earned the $0.36 right in line with our December forecast and that includes the $1.5 billion of after-tax restructuring and other charges that we took in the fourth quarter. Total cash flow from operating activities was $19.1 billion and industrial cash flow, as I said, was $16.7 billion, up 5%. I will cover more on the cash in a few pages.

On the bottom left are our tax rates for the quarter and the year. I will cover a full page on tax rates with my next chart, but let me describe the summary here.

First, the tax rate came in exactly as we expected in December. The consolidated rate for the quarter is a negative 56% and that rate arises from a large tax benefit, which is a credit, on significantly reduced pretax income for the quarter. You can see it's all driven by GE Capital with the industrial rate at 25% for the year.

The consolidated lower pretax income includes the impact in GE Capital of higher loss provisions, impairments, and also the restructuring that we did in the fourth quarter.

For GE Capital the rate is a positive because we are dividing that tax benefit or credit into a negative pretax income, resulting in the favorable rate. And I think one key point here is that our industrial earnings enabled us to use these GE Capital tax losses. It's one of the benefits of having the financial and the industrial company together. I will cover the size of the fourth-quarter impact on the next page of about taxes.

So on the right side you can see the business results. I will cover business by business in a few pages, but you can see our Industrial businesses ex C&I were up 3% in the quarter in line with our 0% to 5% forecast in December. And that was driven by the double-digit growth in energy. GE Capital finance earned a little over $1 billion, in line with the December guidance. Overall the segment profit was down 25%.

The difference between the segment profit and the total results reflect the restructuring, which was about $850 million after tax year-over-year higher in the fourth quarter. That drives you down to the total net income.

The next is more information on taxes, specifically for GE Capital. On the left side is a tax walk going from the fourth quarter of '07 to the fourth quarter of '08. The fourth quarter of '07 rate was about 1% in GECS and that is the $30 million impact that is listed on the left bar.

Then to compare to the fourth quarter of '08 as you walk across we had three categories that impacted the tax. We had higher losses and impairments of about $2.6 billion, which generated a $900 million tax benefit. We had restructuring and lower income, like less US real estate gains, which reduced high tax jurisdiction income by about $2.3 billion. And that also created a tax benefit that was about $800 million.

Then third, we made an election in the fourth quarter to permanently reinvest about $1 billion of prior year overseas lower taxed earnings that resulted in about $400 million of one-time benefits. Though in total for the year -- in the quarter, I mean, that is a $2.1 billion benefit.

On the right side, it's kind of the framework of how do you think about capital taxes for 2009; tried to list the biggest drivers. First, we will have higher loss provisions in '09, and I will cover a lot about losses in a few pages. That would lower the tax rate. Second, the plan does include less restructuring, so that will raise the tax rate. And, finally, the plan includes lower global benefits and lower one-time items, which will also raise the rate.

So in 2009 the GE Capital tax framework does anticipate that we are going to have less one-time benefits than we had in 2008. It does anticipate a higher tax rate, but it's still a negative rate as I talked about in December.

Next is a summary of the restructuring and the other charges that we took in the fourth quarter. On the bottom half of the page are the restructuring and loss provision charges that we talked about in December. We said we were going to evaluate $1 billion to $1.4 billion, and Jeff said we would be at the high end of the range. We came in at $1.5 billion, as I said.

In the middle we funded $1 billion of after-tax charges to take costs out of the Company. We are completing projects with a little over one-year paybacks and we are reducing our cost structure in every single business, as you can see listed here. We have also funded incremental reserve provisions in GE Capital.

Just to talk about reserves for a second, you can see we added an extra $0.5 billion. Our reserves are primarily calculated based on statistical models. We use historical losses, historical recoveries, we use delinquency data. And as we saw an uptick in delinquencies in the fourth quarter we took a comprehensive look at all our reserve models.

These charges that we added here reflect updates to get the most recent loss experience, to get changes in recovery experience, and to get updates on loss severity assumptions. It was about $300 million in the consumer business and about $200 million in commercial.

Then on top of the restructuring and reserves and other charges, we also had marks and impairments in the quarter. You can see we had about $700 million after tax and we have listed the categories here; about $500 million of these were in GE Capital Services and about $200 million were in our industrial businesses. So on top of the $1.5 billion of restructuring we also have about $700 million of marks and impairments that reduced our income in the fourth quarter.

So we had a lot of charges in the quarter and the $1.5 billion really helped to position us for a better 2009.

That is what I will cover on the next page. For all of 2008 we recorded $1.5 billion of after-tax restructuring and other charges, and this includes the fourth quarter -- this excludes the fourth-quarter loss provisions in GE Capital, but it does include restructuring that we did throughout 2008 in addition to what we did in the fourth quarter.

So we had about $0.5 billion throughout the year that also will help reduce our cost structure for 2009. Those actions that we did on reducing our workforce and simplifying our organization and reducing the number of layers are going to deliver about $1 billion of benefit in 2009 from the cost out activity.

In addition we also exited a substantial amount of non-strategic assets during 2008. We exited our corporate card business, our partnership marketing group business, the Japanese consumer finance business, and we also executed the consumer asset swap with Santander. Overall, we exited $14 billion of assets in 2008.

We completed the Santander swap already in the first two weeks of 2009 for another $8 billion, so $23 billion of reduction in assets from these business exits. And we will get ongoing benefits from not having most of these operations in 2009 and beyond. So I think both the cost out restructuring and the business exits that we were able to accomplish help us to prepare for this tough environment that we are dealing with.

The next section is really talking about liquidity and cash planning, giving an update where we are in funding the Company and with cash flow. Let me start with liquidity. First, we beat our commercial paper reduction target. We ended the year at $72 billion. That is down $29 billion in 2008 and down $16 billion in the fourth quarter alone.

The CP market is in better shape. We have strong demand; rates are very low. Our backup lines plus our cash exceed our CP balances. We haven't used the CPFF since it opened in November and we have had a very good response in the market place from commercial paper. We are going to continue that reduction in 2009. Our target is to get down to $50 billion by the end of the year and we have every ability to do that with our plan that we are executing.

The second thing we did was we demonstrated our ability to manage our originations and collections. Our teams reduced our ending net investment by $22 billion on top of the changes that are coming from foreign exchange, so that is actual business reductions. We still originated $48 billion in new book volume in the fourth quarter. So a good job of managing collections and originations to help us to get to the size we need to be to meet our leverage targets I will cover on the next page.

We also closed the year with $36 billion of cash in GE Capital and that was up from $13 billion at the end of the third quarter.

The third thing on liquidity that I think is really important is we were successful at growing our retail funding sources. CDs and deposits were up $25 billion in 2008 consistent with our December targets. We are really in great shape here on liquidity and ahead of schedule with the GE Capital actions.

In addition to liquidity, we also lowered our leverage and we have substantially pre-funded 2009. We ended 2008 with 7 to 1 leverage in GECC. We did infuse $5.5 billion of equity from GE in December and that offset the leverage impact we saw in equity in GE Capital from the strong dollar reducing our equity as we translated our overseas investments. And that was offset by both the ENI reduction that I showed you on the previous page and the equity infusion that we put in and got us to the 7 to 1 leverage, which was our commitment.

On the right side we have already issued $29 billion of long-term debt in GE Capital against our plan for the year of $45 billion. So we have completed 64% of our 2009 needs and that puts us in an excellent position as we think about the rest of the funding we need for the rest of 2009. Very strong shape.

Then there is total cash. If you look at GE in the fourth quarter, year-to-date we had $19.1 billion of CFOA. That is down because we didn't have any special dividends from insurance dispositions in 2008 and we had some in 2007. We also lowered the GE Capital dividend to 10% in the second half of the year.

So industrial cash flow was up 5% for all of 2008. It was about $700 million higher in the fourth quarter than our plan. On the right side is the cash balance walk. We started the year with $6.7 billion. We added the cash flow from the left side. We paid our dividends of $12.4 billion in 2008. We did the equity issuance and out of that equity issuance we contributed $5.5 billion down to GECS.

In the first half of the year we had some stock buyback, about $3.2 billion, so that is the $8.7 billion reduction. We had $3 billion for plant and equipment and software investments. We closed a few acquisitions and debt was down slightly. So we ended the year with $12.1 billion of cash at GE. If you add the GECS cash of $36 billion, the consolidated cash balance is $48 billion at the end of the year versus a $16 billion balance at the end of the third quarter. Just a tremendously safer and more secure liquidity position, and we feel great about where we are here.

The next section is talking about the GE Capital results and also the position and the framework for 2009. I would like to start with just the page that we had in prior pitches. We had used this in December to talk about GE Capital Finance. We said we would make about $9 billion, we made $8.6 billion. We have a plan and a framework to make about $5 billion in 2009, and I will show you how we are going to do that.

Our focus is really threefold. First, we want to manage through this incredibly challenging financial cycle in a safe and responsible way. I have covered what we have accomplished on funding, and I will give you an update on the credit cycle in a few pages.

Second, we are repositioning GE Capital. Jeff said we are talking about changing strategically where we are going to be -- a smaller, more focused, diversified funding, core finance company -- and I'm going to cover the numbers for that on the next couple of pages.

Our third focus is just to continue to support our customers through new origination. We did $48 billion in the fourth quarter. Our plan is for $150 billion to $200 billion in '09 and we are continuing to focus on the mid-market, the verticals, and the consumer lending. So a challenging year, but strong relative performance and let me go through the details.

First are the numbers for fourth quarter for Capital Finance. Mike Neal and his team delivered what we outlined in December. Revenues of $14.8 billion were down 17%, segment profit of $1 billion was down 67%, and assets in GE Capital Finance were down 2%. The separate business results are on the bottom left. Overall, a really tough quarter in a very tough environment.

First, let me start with GE Money. Assets at $184 billion were down 12% year-over-year, driven mostly by foreign exchange. But they were down 3% from the third quarter as new volume declined in all the products as we have tightened underwriting globally everywhere. Net income of $832 million was down 14%, driven by the higher reserve provisions that we took mostly in the Americas; $660 million.

Also, we didn't have a repeat of a gain we had in '07, about $150 million from some sales of Garanti shares. Both of those items were offset by the one-time tax benefit, which I mentioned earlier. Most of that showed up in GE Money.

Next is real estate. Assets of $85 billion were up 8% year-over-year as we invested in the debt portfolio early in the year. Debt as a percent of total assets is up to 57% of the portfolio, but the assets were down 4% from the third quarter as we have dramatically tightened up underwriting on everything obviously to do with real estate.

The business reported a $60 million loss in the quarter. That was down over $660 million from last year and it was mainly driven by fewer gains in the quarter. We did sell $1 billion of properties in the fourth quarter for a positive gain, but that was about $400 million less than we realized last year in gains. In addition, we had about $200 million of impairments and marks in the business.

The portfolio is still in good shape. We have a 1% delinquency rate and while the equity gains are down, we fully expect to more than recover our investment over asset hold periods. And I will cover more on real estate in a few pages.

Next is commercial lending and leasing. You can see we also split out Capital Solutions. We had a really tough quarter in our corporate lending business. This is where we were hardest hit by the turmoil that we are seeing in the financial markets.

We had an earnings decline of over $400 million from the mark-to-markets in equity securities. The largest was Genpact for $96 million. We had almost $400 million in incremental loss provisions that we have put into the business in the quarter and we had lower gains of about $150 million.

Finally, the verticals. They had a solid performance in the fourth quarter. GECAS was down 5%; that is from a one-time tax charge of about $25 million, but the portfolio quality remains in great shape. We ended the quarter -- ended the year with one aircraft on the ground and almost no delinquencies.

And Energy Financial Services had another great quarter with earnings up 24%. So overall a tough quarter given the neighborhood, and in line with our expectations.

Let me go through a little bit about the portfolio quality and credit losses and reserves on the next couple of pages. First is delinquency and non-earning assets. On the left side are the commercial data. We saw an increase in the commercial delinquencies and non-earnings in the fourth quarter.

We are seeing pressure across most of the portfolios. We are up 56 basis points from third quarter on the delinquency rate. Capital solutions drove most of that; that was 38 basis points of the increase. And Healthcare Financial Services had some of the increase.

We also saw an increase in non-earnings. Non-earnings were up 37 basis points, up almost $700 million versus the third quarter and it's driven by senior secured loans. We do expect significant recovery. This is where our senior secured positions are so important. I will give you an example.

In the quarter, we had nine accounts that were greater than $30 million; that was all the rest of the non-earnings that went in were less than $30 million. That represented about $450 million of exposure, but our expected loss is less than $60 million. So on the accounts that went into non-earning we are senior secured, that is about a 13% net exposure, but our overall commercial reserves to non-earnings is 53%. So I think we are going to see non-earnings. We are going to see delinquencies rise; senior secured position and our diversification is so important here.

On the right side is the consumer data. We continued to see deterioration in the consumer portfolio during the quarter in both the mortgage and the non-mortgage books. I thought it would be better to break out mortgage and non-mortgage because the loss dynamics are so different.

The two biggest pressure points we have on both delinquency, which is on the left side, and the right side is non-earnings, are in North American, the consumer business, and UK home lending. I tried to break that out down on the bottom. Total delinquencies for the consumer business were up 108 basis points versus the third quarter. The North American business accounts for 64 points of that increase and the UK accounts for about 29 basis points. Total non-earners were up 62 basis points, and again North America accounted for 17 of that and UK accounted for 28 basis points of that increase.

So we are also being impacted by lower volume. As we have less volume going in, we don't have new accounts going in that are current and you ended up with a higher percentage just by the math.

Then the mortgage loss rates are rising, but they really remain low. Our non-mortgage book has low non-earnings. It's 1.76%; you can see that. And despite the mortgage non-earnings at 5.57%, the mortgage loss rates are low. Fourth-quarter write-offs were $109 million, 0.67% of the financing receivables, and our current portfolio loan-to-value is at 76%.

We underwrote in the businesses where we have less-than-prime business with mortgage insurance at everything over 80% loan-to-value, so we also have the insurance coverage. In UK, where we have our biggest book, you can see that the repossession stock was flat versus the third quarter of '08. That is about a little less than 1,000 houses that we have repossessed. So despite the business being our biggest portfolio, it's really a small number of properties that we actually get to repossession with because of the way we have underwritten the credit and because of the mortgage insurance.

Overall, we expect both the commercial and the consumer delinquencies to continue to get worse in 2009, but we are well reserved for this and I will cover that on the next page.

Here is an update from the December 2 meeting. We showed you our credit losses and our reserves. We updated for the fourth-quarter actuals here and we have given you kind of our current view of 2009. So on the top are credit losses. In the fourth quarter the losses came in higher, our provision; it was driven by write-offs and reserve strengthening. We incurred $7.5 billion for the total year.

We have increased our forecast for 2009 from what was previously $9 billion up to $10 billion. We also increased the reserves in the quarter by $700 million and by $1.1 billion for the year, while having write-offs up $2 billion. So we have done a lot of strengthening in this portfolio. The reserves ended at $5.3 billion, in line with our forecast adjusting for the impact of FX and some of the business exits we did in the fourth quarter.

As I mentioned, our US consumer and UK mortgage businesses are the pressure points and on the top right are some of the stats about that. If you look at the US card and sales finance, our US consumer business, we increased reserves by $0.5 billion in the fourth quarter. For the year that took us up to about $1.3 billion, which allowed us to have the coverage rate of 178 basis points to 6.15% of financing receivables.

That is a really good reserve for this book and reserves to non-earnings are covered 2.25 times. So we have really increased the reserves in North America reflecting the delinquencies. And our changes in underwriting, we can see a benefit on new losses rolling into delinquency, new accounts rolling into delinquency, but we are still seeing a lot of pressure on the consumer and the US book obviously.

On the mortgage book we increased our coverage rate 56% to 0.64%. We really have significantly less losses here being a senior secured lender. With insurance, the reserves to non-earnings are about 11.5% and our average loan-to-value across the entire portfolio is at 76% now. So when you look I think we have dramatically increased our provisions. We have also upped our loss estimates for 2009 based on the environment we see. This is a tougher loss environment that we are planning for than we showed you on December 2.

If you look at the next page, I thought it would be helpful to just go back to the GE Capital framework we discussed in December. And then on the right side I will talk about some of the trends in the businesses and how you think about 2009, which is everyone's question. At this time, we don't have any changes to the overall framework on the left side, but I do want to share some movement within the ranges that I'd just give you an update on.

We ended the year with $8.6 billion of earnings in Capital Finance. We don't really have any change to the range for what we think is going to happen between the asset declines and the changes in the portfolio; still $0 billion to $1 billion down. We don't have any change in our estimates of gains. We are going to be down $1.4 billion to $1.8 billion.

For losses, we ended the year, as I said, with higher losses and reserves. We are planning for a slightly higher loss experience, around $10 billion versus the $9 billion, and that would take you close to the middle of this range.

On SG&A, we see more upside in the cost actions that we have launched. So we expect to at least to be at the high end of the range on SG&A and possibly better and that will accelerate through the year.

Finally, on tax benefits. They will be down in 2009 but probably near the lower half of the range here based on our 2008 close. Still down significantly though versus 2008. So all-in-all a more conservative loss assumption for '09 offset by SG&A and a little bit of tax, and this is what the teams are operating to.

On the right side when you look at the major statements GE Capital it would be helpful to just give you some of the dynamics. I will start with real estate. We continue to increase our debt mix versus equity, but we are conservatively planning the real estate team at breakeven to a potential loss of zero to a $0.5 billion loss. And that is driven by our lower gain assumptions, especially in the first half and some increased impairments.

You can see we have moved from an embedded gain last year at the end of the year. In the 10-K we reported about $3 billion, and this year when we do the 10-K we are expecting to report an embedded loss of somewhere around $4 billion pretax. But within that, we did sell $2 billion of gains in 2008, and then the rest is the change in the market dynamics. And I think selling those properties and realizing those gains was a pretty good performance in this market.

Another thing I wanted to talk about when you think about the $4 billion of embedded losses in real estate, we are an operator of these assets. We have the ability to hold for the long-term. The assets from an accounting perspective are carried at historical costs. We test them for impairment under FAS144, impairment for long-lived assets. It is reviewed every single quarter, but they are not marked-to-market. We are not a trading REIT.

If you look at this equity book that we have here, we generate about $1.7 billion in net operating income from these properties. We also record depreciation annually on the properties we own. That lowers our basis about $1.2 billion per year, and we originated these properties to hold them. We put them on our balance sheet. We work on value creation, lease-up, property improvements, and manage the property over time, and we will hold these properties for five years or more.

So I think the portfolio is in pretty good shape, low delinquency. The market conditions are what they are, but we have underwritten these with good-quality underwriting and we like the supply and demand characteristics of the markets we have invested in. And we are prepared to hold these properties through this cycle.

GE Money next, we are expecting higher losses. I think you can surely see that in the consumer business for the first and second quarters at least. We are going to continue to shrink the book as we remix the commercial, and so we expect them to be down in '09 versus '08.

For commercial loans and leases we expect another challenging year with the loss pressure that we are seeing being offset by the SG&A actions. We are really dramatically impacting the cost structure here globally. But we do have a good market position and all the new underwriting that we are doing is at extremely improved margins.

Then for the verticals we are really well positioned on GECAS and all of our placements for 2009 are committed and solid. EFS at also looks like it's prepared for another strong year, so they should be positive contributors here.

So we are planning on a tough year in a tough environment. The team is operating within the $5 billion framework for 2009 and that is what they know they have to execute on.

So let me switch now and go to Infrastructure and Media. I will start with the orders in the quarter; we feel very good about this. On the left side is major equipment. For the quarter, we had orders of $13.4 billion; that was down 11%. You can see that Energy was flat. The Thermal business was up 1%. Wind was up 5%. Oil and gas was down 19%, down 9% when you adjust for FX given the global nature of their business. And we did see some push outs in the Oil & Gas business.

Healthcare you can see was down 6%. Life Sciences was up strong, Surgery is up favorably obviously with the OEC orders and shipments, and DI was down 14%.

Aviation had some tougher comparisons. Last year the fourth quarter was up 66%, but even with their orders down 26% that still allowed them to grow their backlog. The high absolute level of orders was more than the sales.

So for Transportation you can see equipment orders were down 48% in the quarter and 59% for the year. We do anticipate fewer locomotive deliveries in the '09 framework, and I will cover the '09 framework for all these businesses in a few pages.

So if you look in total for the year, we had $54 billion of equipment orders. We ended the year with a $51 billion backlog; that was up 6%, and we continue to see pretty strong global activity out there. I will cover some more on the orders as I go through the different businesses.

On the right side is Services. In the quarter we had $9.8 billion of orders; that was up 2%. Energy was flat. We had strong orders in Power Gen offset by a non-repeat of some nuclear fuel orders, which are always -- impact us from a timing perspective. They come in, they are large and lumpy.

Oil & Gas was up 2%; very good upgrade position and the short cycle was down slightly in the Oil & Gas business.

Aviation had a very good quarter, up 9%. Both in military and commercial the spare order rate was 21.9 a day, up 6% over last year.

If you look at the total service orders for the year, $37 billion. It's a fantastic business. We ended 2008 with $121 billion in customized service agreements backlog; that was up 11%. The total orders for the quarter at $22.8 billion were down 6%, but total orders for the year were $89.8 billion, up 5%. We grew the backlog in total including equipment service by $15 billion in 2008 so there is still an awful lot of economic activity out there in the infrastructure businesses.

I will start from a business perspective with the Energy Infrastructure team. Revenues of $11.4 billion were up 21%. We had $2 billion of segment profit, up 11%. Let me start with the Energy business.

The orders in Energy, as I said, were flat at $8.7 billion, but that is a strong absolute level of orders. For the fourth quarter the equipment orders in that number were $5 billion and they were flat. We received orders for 70 gas turbines in the fourth quarter, which is a good absolute order number. Only six gas turbines or about $200 million of the 55 unit Iraq order that we announced in December, the $3 billion order, is included in this number. So we still have another $2.8 billion from that order that will come in.

What we require is we need a signed contract. We need nonrefundable cash before we would include it in orders. So we have announced that we have the agreement, but it hasn't flowed into these order numbers yet. So that is still another indicator of the economic activity that is out there.

Wind orders were up 5% in the quarter to $4 billion, a little over 930 turbines versus about 900 last year. Aero orders were up 86% to about $700 million. Now the offset to all those is that nuclear orders were down about 90% to $18 million so not a lot of activity there on the equipment side.

Fourth quarter Service orders were flat. Energy Services were up 9%, again offset by the nuclear services which were down about 55% due to fuel reload timing. Total backlog at $24 billion was up 14% and order pricing was up 5.5%, so very strong continued order activity for the Energy business.

Revenues in the quarter were very strong, up 29%, driven by the growth in power generation. That was up 48%, and the service revenues were up 3%. The Thermal business had a great quarter. The revenue was up 76% on strong volume. We had two more gas turbines, five more steam turbines, 17 more generators, and then there was a little bit more balance of plant which is more third-party supplied material at lower margins but a lot of revenue.

Wind was up 29% on more units. They had 988 units in the quarter, up 168 units. The service revenues were up 3%, as I said, facing tougher comparisons versus last year's business had big orders in transactional parts and big revenue.

For Energy the op profit was up 15%. That was driven by all that strong volume that I just covered in Power Generation, partially offset by some lower Services op profit. That was down about 10% in the quarter. We had higher inflation in the [F] fleet overhaul costs, and Energy also had a $30 million drag from net terminations in the Nuclear and Wind business. So negatives in the Nuclear and a few positives in Wind and Aero.

The next business, Oil & Gas, they had another strong quarter and they had a great year. Total orders of $1.9 billion were down 11%. As I said, we saw some impact from lower prices in the economy. We did have about $275 million of cancellations in the Oil & Gas business, but that didn't have any impact on operations. The net position we had from cash offset any exposure we had.

We also were impacted by the strength of the dollar. Ex FX, even including cancellations, orders were flat. Revenues were down 4%, Equipment was down 13%, and Services were up 14%. Again, impacted by FX, the strong dollar; revenues were up 6% on a local currency basis.

The positive equipment service mix in the Oil & Gas business resulted in the great op profit performance with growth of 22%. So double-digit growth in the Energy business and continued great global economic activity for us.

Next is Tech Infrastructure. Revenues at $12.6 billion were up 1%. Segment profit of $2.5 billion was also up 1%. You can see the business results again on the bottom left and let me just cover a few highlights of each of the businesses here.

In Aviation, very good quarter. Orders in the quarter were $5.3 billion; that was down 12%. That is what you would expect with the airframer backlog sold out into 2011 or 2012. We knew we were going to have tougher engine comparisons versus some of the orders we had last year.

The fourth-quarter commercial engine orders were $1.5 billion so we have still got a lot of activity even though that is down about 40%. The Military orders were pretty strong; they were only down 4%. And Service orders were up 9% so even with a tough comparison, we grew our equipment backlog. Year-over-year the equipment backlog was up 9%.

Revenues of $5.2 billion were up 2%. That was driven by higher military shipments, up 78%, partially offset by fewer commercial engines, which were down 14%, and the Commercial Service revenues were up 4%. And that delivered op profit of $1.2 billion, up 21%, driven by pricing ahead of inflation and good service productivity.

Healthcare, revenues were down 3% and segment profit was down 9%. This is the final quarter, I am happy to say, impacted by last year's revenue recognition adjustment. Without that impact, segment profit, as you can see with the footnote we have got on the chart, would have been up about 8%. Orders in Healthcare were down 4%, Equipment was down 6%, and Services were up 1%.

We continue to see pressure in the DI business. DI was down 14% driven by more pressure in the US. Orders were down about -- a little under 30% and international was up 8% in local currency. So in the quarter revenue was down 3%.

We had some growth in Life Sciences; that was up 13%. We had good growth in surgery from the OEC business shipping. We had 1% growth in services and that was offset by DI, which was down 2%. Clinical Systems was down 9%, and Medical Diagnostics was down 6%.

So a mixed picture in Healthcare. Op profit down 9% driven by the negative price versus inflation and last year's revenue recognition adjustment.

Then in Transportation business here in the Tech Infrastructure, revenues of $1.4 billion were up 20%. We had a lot of international locomotive volume. We had growth in our wind gearbox units and that was partially offset by fewer North American locomotives. Op profit was down 16% because of the cost impact of developing this North American locomotive. We have got a new platform and we also had higher commodity costs that impacted the business.

For the year, the Transportation op profit was up about 3%. So a mixed environment in Tech Infrastructure, but exactly what we said we were going to see when we met with you in December.

Next is NBC. NBC delivered -- the team delivered the results in line with the expectations in the fourth quarter. Revenues of $4.4 billion were down 3% and segment profit was down 6%. It's a little tougher profile than most of 2008. We had continued strong performance in Cable, but that was more than offset by the pressure we are seeing in local markets.

Cable had another great quarter. Revenues were up 11%, op profit was up 22%, and it's strong everywhere. USA continues its number one streak, Bravo, SciFi, and USA were all up double-digits. MSNBC had a tremendous quarter, up 37%, with great coverage of politics in the quarter. CNBC was up 14% and is doing a fantastic job in business news.

The next category is Broadcast, which if you look at the network and our TV production operation, they had a strong quarter with positive profit growth, but local media had a tough quarter. Revenue was down 25 and operating profit was down 55 driven by the economy. And you are seeing that in local advertising.

The TV studio partially offset that. They continue to perform; we are getting a lot of good revenue and margins from owned content like House and Heroes and 30 Rock. And NBC News continued to have a great quarter; strong number one with Meet the Press, Today and Nightly News.

We are excited about the changing broadcast model with the agreement to have Jay Leno go on at 10 o'clock and that will start in the next season, which will be after September. Overall op profit for the Broadcast was down about 50%, driven by the local performance.

On the right side, Film & Parks had a mixed quarter. Op profit was down about 7%. We did have six new releases in the fourth quarter versus four in '07. So that the advertising and promotion drag with the new releases hurt us a little bit year-over-year. That was partially offset by very strong DVD sales; up 20% from hits like Mamma Mia.

We have had a pretty good quarter overall in the content and quality. We have got some good Oscar nominations from the team at Universal. We congratulate them on that.

The parks had a mixed performance. The per cap spending was pretty strong, attendance was mixed. We were up 4% in California, down 4% in Orlando which is pretty good given the environment that we are seeing.

Finally, on Digital and Cost and Other. Hulu continues to perform, get great recognition and good growth. We continue to take a lot of actions here to reduce cost and the team will continue to do that.

Then in the fourth quarter we reached an insurance settlement for the final settlement on the impact of the fire that we had in Hollywood. That benefit of about $225 million was offset by $215 million of write-downs on some of our investments in NBC like Shop NBC and our investment in Ion. So a solid performance in a tough environment.

Next I just want to cover a couple of charts about the industrial business model, and I think it's relevant in this environment and it reinforces the message that we gave in December. There is really five factors that Jeff outlined in December that position us to outperform in a tough environment.

First is our position in infrastructure. We start 2009 with a $51 billion equipment backlog. We are incredibly well positioned to be a part of the global stimulus and that entire world is putting stimulus packages together. And we are going to be aggressively pursuing things that we can help governments create jobs and improve their economic activity and also improve their infrastructure. We are well positioned there. Certainly from a clean environment and renewable energy perspective and in Healthcare we have got a great position.

Second, global diversity. We ended 2008 with 53% of our Industrial revenues outside the US. Despite the slowdown, there is pockets of global growth. You can see it; that we continue to benefit from large orders in the Middle East. I mentioned the Iraq order.

We also had in the fourth quarter a $1 billion order in Saudi Arabia. Healthcare in China in the fourth quarter was up 33%, and as Jeff said, they were enacting stimulus. So our global position really enables us to take advantage of market activity anywhere that is available in the world.

Third, our terrific service position. We benefit from a huge installed base and in a tough environment customers tend to extend their asset lives and that is good for our services business. We had $9 billion of Services revenues in the fourth quarter with high margins and that continues to grow. We have got a great customized service agreement backlog that gives us a long-lasting relationship with our customers and in an environment like this that is really important.

Fourth, value gap, margins. We expect to drive pricing in excess of inflation in 2009. We have got a positive tailwind developing in inflation and our Equipment Services mix is also going to turn positive in 2009. So I think we have got a lot of factors here on this page, and then the fifth point is cost control, which I'm going to cover on the next page.

We talked about -- Jeff mentioned how we are operating the Company. We have got an intense focus on cost with the operating counsel and our focus at the GE Capital Board. But on the operations side for Industrial we have the entire global sourcing team energized to get material deflation. We expect our direct material to be down a couple billion dollars in this year and we are seeing that across the board as commodity prices have come down and as the environment has gotten tougher.

Every single team in this Company has a headcount-based cost target and the restructuring that we funded in the fourth quarter really helped us to get going on these actions. They will help us to deliver about $1 billion of incremental benefit year-over-year in '09 in addition; that is a big part of how we get our base cost down from $44 billion to $41 billion.

Then finally every team in the Company has a program to reduce indirect cost and that is a part -- and the indirect is a subset of the base cost. But we are expecting sourcing deflation of around 7% and in many places it is better than that. As we reduce our headcount from the cost actions that also helps us to reduce our indirect spending, the connection between employment and indirects or directs. So we are really taking aggressive cost actions across the Company.

With that now let me go back to the framework for '09. I thought I would recap on the 2009 operating framework. This is what we gave you in December; I have a few comments to make about it. Revenues we said would be flat to down 5%. You can see that we have got Industrial growth and continued Financial Services shrinkage. That hasn't changed.

For the Industrial segments, we expect the segment profit to be up 0% to 5%. We have many strengths that I just went through -- the five points -- including our great backlog, our position in infrastructure, our service business, and our focus on cost. Even with a tough economy and the financial crisis, we should be able to deliver this.

I thought I would just give you some of the unit assumptions that we have in our framework maybe to help you to model. For Energy in '08 we had about 188 gas turbines. In '09 we are expecting to be about flat with that, somewhere around 185. For Wind we had about 3,240 turbines in '08. We expect that -- in the framework we have that at about 2,800 turbines. That is down about 14%.

In Transportation, we had 861 locomotives in the year. In '09 in our framework we are counting on about 600. In Aviation we had about 2,156 commercial engine deliveries in '08. That actually in the current rollup in the framework is 2,200 engines based on the airframer production schedule and our share. On the Military side we had about 746 engines and we are counting on about 925, which are contracted with the government.

So that gives you a little bit of help on how you think about 0% to 5% and what we are thinking about on these long cycle infrastructure businesses.

On Capital Finance we said we would have about $5 billion. I went through the operating performance factors; the team is totally focused on it. We know it's a tough environment and we have got a lot of execution to hit that, but we have given you the framework on how we are thinking about it.

Then, finally, our corporate costs and C&I. That is going to be flat. We are going to have less restructuring. We are going to have a little higher pension costs.

Just one update on pension, if you look at the cloud on the right side there, our US pension -- principal pension plan the assets were down 28%. We were impacted by asset returns, just like everyone else was last year. With assets down 28%, we ended the year with about a $1 billion deficit in the principal US plan.

There are no funding requirements for '09. The funding requirements are a little different than just the difference between your book assets and liabilities. On the funding requirement calculations we are 109% over-funded at the end of the year and we don't anticipate that you would have any funding in '09.

We will have to see what happens with discount rates and asset returns in 2009 and 2010 to see a little further out. But the 2009 expense will be up slightly from '08, as we showed you, about $300 million versus $200 million. So not a big impact there.

Overall, no change to the framework for 2009 from December. I thought it would be good to give you a few of the updates on where we were. Let me turn it back to Jeff.

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Thanks. I want to just recap on capital allocation and want to spend some time dwelling on something that has received a lot of attention and speculation. We are planning for a really tough environment. The recession is tough; financial services crisis is worse. We had 12 financial service companies downgraded in the fourth quarter, GE put on negative outlook by S&P, so we are prepared for a really tough environment.

But what I would say is that we really have prepared the Company to perform in this environment. We hit or beat every cash and liquidity commitment since the crisis began. Our Industrial CFOA is very strong at $16.7 billion versus a $16 billion dollar plan. We generated $5.3 billion of Industrial cash flow in Q4.

We end the year with very strong positions in cash. CP reductions ahead of plan; 64% of the debt is pre-funded. Leverage is down to 7 to 1, so from a capital liquidity cash flow standpoint I think we are in great shape.

Our management attention is very focused. The operating council, the GECS, drive results. The GE Capital team I think has really done a great job of executing and responding to this environment. We have increased the cadence of our meetings. We have aligned compensation around cash. I think the team is very focused and engaged and the plan is realistic.

I think we have adjusted in line with the environment. We are reflecting the environment. We have increased loss reserves, and again I feel very confident that we have fully reflected what we expect in this environment.

The key thing is to maintain our disciplines. We believe that the dividend represents a good shareholder return in this environment and we continue to run the Company to be AAA. So we have a lot of cash, we have improved the liquidity, our priorities remain the same. I think we have really reflected a balanced plan in GE Capital.

Our priorities for 2009 are just in line with our December outlook, which is to grow the Company organically, maintain the GE dividend, and execute on our financial services plan that we have outlined at the December 2 meeting.

So just to summarize, I think we have completed 2008 in line with the December meeting. We have earned $18 billion, the GE Capital business earned $8.6 billion in Capital Finance. Infrastructure & Media were at 3% in line with expectations. We have executed on a liquidity and cash plan that we have outlined very significantly, and have executed and performed really across the board. We have reduced the ending net investment by $46 billion in Q3 and 64% of our '09 debt funding levels are completed.

We are not changing the 2009 financial framework in terms of how we look at the Company and how we are running it. We are running the Company with intensity. We have got shorter cycle time on processes. We have diversified revenue streams. We have increased cash flow. We are changing the financial service business model. We have aggressively lowered costs and we are positioned for stimulus. So we believe that the Company is positioned for a very tough environment and set to perform.

So, Trevor, let me turn it back to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Great. Lauren, I think we would like to turn it over to the Q&A now.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John Inch, Merrill Lynch.

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: So if we look at capital it strikes me that perhaps one of the biggest sources of pressure within the markets would be, say, the equity portion of your real estate book. Keith, I understand your comments vis-a-vis sort of accrual accounting and just sort of how you book that stuff, but then you do have this embedded loss.

I guess where I am coming from is, given what has happened with commercial real estate markets and the pressure these industries are under, could you describe how we should be thinking about prospective losses or write-downs in that business looking ahead? How long can you hold these levels without having to take a much bigger hit?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think the thing that you have to recognize is the way I described it this morning. We invest in these properties to hold them for the long term. We don't mark them to market. We do have the ability to run them. We collect operating income from the tenants. We invest and improve the properties. Our hold period on this equity book is going to be five-plus years.

We have underwritten every single property from a supply and demand characteristic to make sure that we have got a high-quality asset in a place that is going to have good supply and demand characteristics. And in the short term if you have to deal with a rent decrease or a vacancy issue, we can weather that and we include that in our assumptions.

Basically, we use third-party data for our rent growth assumptions. We look at our occupancy based on the market and our actuals. We inflate our expense growth in our forecast. We use sales comps for cap rates. We use third-party data; the discount rates are set by third parties. So I think we are really very diligent on how we look at what the value of the properties are going to be, what is the long-term prospect for the property with rent growth and inflation and cap rates, and we have the ability to hold these.

So I think you are going to see a continued pressure in the commercial real estate market, obviously, from the impact of unemployment and the general economy. And we forecast that into how we have looked at what this book is going to be. So I think you can see further declines from an actual fair value mark-to-market versus this book, but we have the ability to hold these properties for the long-term and we intend to do that.

I think when we put the plan together for '09 we were expecting $0 million to $500 million loss for real estate. Included in that we are going to make $500 million, $600 million, $700 million from the debt portfolio. We will lose a similar amount on the equity portfolio in total, because we have operating income. But that is offset by carrying costs and this depreciation which lowers the basis. I think it's important that we are lowering the basis every year by $1.2 billion, John.

Then overall we will probably have a couple hundred million dollars of impairments is the way we looked at 2009. Not a big number and it's based on the current market, our estimates of what the future will look like based on our best assumptions for 2009 and 2010 and beyond. And we are prepared to weather the storm.

I think that, you know, it's not too dissimilar from you look after 9/11 with GECAS. 9/11 with GECAS we had a lot of airlines under stress, but we have good assets. The airplanes have a lot of value and we had the ability to weather that storm. As you look at what we have been able to do since 9/11, we have been able to not only recover those asset values but we have been able to put the whole business back into positions where we had substantial gains.

That is what we are. We are a long-term investor. We are a buy-and-hold investor. We fix up the properties and we have the ability and the balance sheet to weather this temporary storm in commercial real estate, even if it's going to be a couple year period.

JOHN INCH: Then just as a follow up, given the higher provisions of $1 billion, as you guys look at the world, Jeff, are you still sticking by your assertion you do not need to raise additional equity capital?

JEFF IMMELT: You know, John, I really look at the cash position in the Company today and the strength of our cash flow and things like that. And I just can't see a scenario in which we would have to raise additional equity capital. We just have -- we have executed on all of the capital planning, liquidity planning, cash flow strength. We just have done -- I think navigated this very well and we have just got high levels of cash and liquidity right now.

JOHN INCH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Nicole Parent, Credit Suisse.

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. I guess I am just trying to reconcile the 3% Industrial organic growth that you guys are targeting for 2009 with the great color you gave us on the unit deliveries for '09 and I guess also the order numbers for the fourth quarter. I guess maybe elaborate.

On Oil & Gas you talked about push outs in the quarter, equipment orders down, service strong. Transportation, orders are up 50%, unit forecast for 2009 is down 30%. And then I guess with Healthcare with diagnostic imaging down 30%, help us think about how the components get you to kind of the growth that you are talking about?

KEITH SHERIN: I think you are going to have to look at the backlog. The orders in the fourth quarter don't really reflect what we have as the backlog that is shippable for 2009, although it does obviously indicate from the high levels, the absolute high levels that we have been realizing these orders at, Nicole, a slowdown versus those.

I think if you go business by business I think Energy is really well positioned for a good year. I think we have got a very strong backlog on the Power Generation side. I think the Wind side is -- we are forecasting and in the framework we have it down 14%. I think there is quite a bit in the stimulus that may help us to influence that. Whether it affects '09 or '10, we will have to see, but a renewable portfolio standard as well as a change of the production tax credit to be actually a refund really does change the dynamics of the market for that business. So I think they are well positioned.

I think in Oil & Gas we have seen those push outs. We do have a very good backlog. The good news about the equipment slowdown is we don't make a lot of money on the equipment margin as we ship those units, but it's important to build the installed base. And the service business is growing nicely. So I think in Oil & Gas it's going to be a similar profile to the fourth quarter where you have less equipment shipments but from a total growth you are dealing with a lot better service margin, and you have enough equipment shipment business to make sure you don't have a cost problem in your business model.

From Aviation I think we have got pretty good unit forecast. I think we will have to see how the backlog holds when you look at will financing and will the capital markets sustain the total airframer production schedules that they have. We have tried to hedge back what we think might happen based on the financial markets, but we have a tremendously strong backlog here from an equipment perspective based on the share we have gained. And the Service business based on that installed base growth feels pretty good.

We have taken in Aviation -- as you know, we saw in the summer last year airlines globally announced about 1,500 planes that were going to come out. We have taken that into account in our forecasting both for what it means maybe for airlines taking new planes as well as for what it means in overhauls in the installed base. With oil coming down to $40 a barrel that has helped things actually, we have had less pressure than we actually thought we would have by the fourth quarter last year.

We were impacted about $200 million in the service business in all of '08 from those push outs and we think it's similar numbers likely in '09.

For Healthcare it's going to be a tough business. At the end of the day we have got to do a better job with costs. We are taking a lot of costs out of the cost structure. We have got many product lines there, as you know, that will help us from an equipment perspective. We have got to do a better job with the surgery business. That is up and running, obviously, and will give us some tailwind into 2009, but we are obviously watching that DI market.

I think the one other positive in there is going to be stimulus, including things like in China where you are getting a lot of local benefit to hopefully help the local healthcare markets. And we are seeing that globally. That is one positive that we have got to watch in Healthcare.

Transportation is going to be down; there is no question about it. I think you are going to see lower North American locomotives. We have got a lot of global orders we are chasing, but they are going to have to do a good job with service. And they are going to have to do a good job with the adjacencies, like the wind turbine business which helps them because they do the gearboxes.

So I think we have taken that all into account when you look at the framework of zero to five for industrial and it's going to be a tough equipment world. There is no question about it. The teams have built their plans for 2009 based on that environment, Nicole.

JEFF IMMELT: Nicole, the service business is very strong. The backlog is very strong. That is $8 billion of Industrial earnings right there. If you go back to the December meeting, I think our orders are really in line with what we thought. We have very been little sell and install that is required for 2009 and very robust Service backlog, so I think that is the key to this year.

NICOLE PARENT: Got it. Just one follow-up on real estate. Keith, I think you said you sold $1 billion at a profit. Could you give us a sense of what the dollar amount of that profit was and was it in line, better, or worse than your expectations?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, we sold about $1 billion of properties. We had about a $50 million net gain on those sales. It was in line with the expectation of a terrible market in the fourth quarter. It's less than we wanted if you wanted to go back to the second quarter or the third quarter, but it was in line with what we thought we were going to get when we entered into the fourth quarter here and the environment that we saw.

NICOLE PARENT: Great. Just one last one on Transportation, you mentioned you were investing in the international platform. What was the dollar amount of that investment just so we can normalize an exit run rate for the full year?

KEITH SHERIN: It was about $40 million associated with the platform. We developed a locomotive for North Africa. We had an order for about 80 units in Egypt. We haven't completed shipping all of those units, but it's about $30 million of costs. We did get a follow-on order for Libya for about 15, 18 units. So it's a growth area for us and the investment, we think, will pay off.

NICOLE PARENT: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citi Investment Research.

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thank you. Good morning. Keith, can you just walk us a little bit through what happened with equity? Sequentially, the equity balance is down about $7.5 billion, obviously, despite a capital raise and net income that is greater than the dividend. I am sure some of it is pension, but it's kind of hard to put my arms around what is going on there.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look -- I will go from third quarter, Jeff. We had about $112 million of equity, and in the fourth quarter we ended the year with about $105 million of equity. Basically, we had a little change in the unrealized loss on investments, about $800 million. We had a negative from the change in the value of cash flow hedges, about $1 billion.

Currency really hit us. The stronger dollar translating over half our assets in financial services overseas and the US and the GE industrial assets that are overseas hurt us about $7.5 billion. We have about $14 billion from the benefit plans. That is mostly pension. The surplus that went to a deficit.

We had $15 billion increase from the equity issuance, and we have $4 billion increase from the earnings, and then we paid our dividend. So at the end of the day, the equity issuance that we did was kind of offset by the benefit plans, and we had a decline in equity from foreign exchange.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then on a similar vein, just trying to get my arm around these various walks, the GE capital walk kind of slightly adjusted from the beginning point at 8.6. But it appears that your gains -- I am sorry, your losses, you are now expecting a $2.5 million delta based on the $10 billion credit losses you were talking about for '09, but you didn't change that loss headwind of $1.3 billion to $2 billion.

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. I think it is probably the difference between pretax and after-tax. If you look at the reserve levels and the credit loss provision, it is pretax. And then the net income walk on GECS, the $8.6 billion down to the $5 billion, that is an after-tax number.

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then your comment about the taxes, we should be more in the middle of that range than $1 billion to $2 billion credit?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I said probably closer to somewhere nearer the lower end of the range than the top end of the range. And we have obviously a lot of work going on in taxes to make sure we get that, but that has got some volatility in it.

JEFF SPRAGUE: The lower end of the range meaning bigger credit?

KEITH SHERIN: No, I meant the lower end of the range, less the credit, closer to the $1 billion down than the $2 billion down, Jeff, sorry.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Okay.

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, I think we have been able to have the GE Capital guys step into a lot in the fourth quarter. I mean, I don't think that should be underestimated. The reserve strengthening, the restructuring that has gone on to take the cost out. I would say that the cost plan we can probably do even better than. So I think we have done a nice job in Q4 to get positioned for 2009. And all of the actions we have taken, I think, make the $5 billion more achievable.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Jeff, actually a different thought. You characterized deflation as kind of positive. Maybe we have got good deflation here for a while with some of these raw mat costs coming down. But do you see any evidence of kind of the dark side of deflation where it is really catching up on your ability to achieve price in the marketplace or you are getting people really evaluating their plans and reconsidering CapEx and other things?

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, I think we have gone through a cycle if you go through the last couple of years, and that is that our pricing in the beginning lagged inflation, and then our pricing was better than inflation. Our pricing, for instance, in businesses like Energy was very positive in the fourth quarter. So we tend to sell longer than we buy in many of our businesses, so I view that as net positive.

I also think that projects got canceled because of inflation that now might mail get more attention. So again, I think this is more positive than negative vis-a-vis what we can expect for 2009, from a value gap standpoint.

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell, Barclays Capital.

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, everybody. More questions on capital industrial for the first time ever. Another thought, Keith, as you look at the fourth quarter for financial services, the op profit before provisions was $1.572 billion, down from $4.7 billion last year. Now if you start from that level and you annualize that number, you're looking at $6 billion of op profit in '09, and then you are looking at $10 billion of provisions next year. So you're starting out -- if you just extrapolate the quarter that just reported, you're looking at a meaningful loss next year.

So to the extent you can -- obviously, that doesn't count the cost savings and so forth. Maybe is it possible to take the current number and extrapolate into '09 and maybe help us with that walk?

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I think the way to do it would be if you look at GE Capital, the total GE Capital services, you had about $1.5 billion pretax loss in the quarter, Bob.

BOB CORNELL: Yes.

KEITH SHERIN: I would start with the restructuring. We had $700 million pretax in the fourth quarter that is above any run rate if I'd add that back. I think if you look at the loss provisions, we had $3.1 billion of lost provisions in the quarter. Clearly, even at a 10 rate, you are somewhere -- I am only averaging for quarters and I'm not picking a quarter; I'm just saying the average for the year, that would be 2.5 versus 3.1 even going to the 10 rate. So that is 600 higher in the fourth quarter than that run rate.

Losses -- mark-to-markets and impairments, in the quarter we had about $1.2 billion pretax of mark-to-markets and impairments. Even if I said the total year 2009 was going to be the same mark-to-market impairment levels as we had in 2008, you know we had marks in the first quarter and the third quarter.

That would be about $1.6 billion pretax total year. So that would be less than the fourth quarter. Another $800 million in the fourth quarter, I think was a very heavy quarter for us on marks and impairments in GE Capital.

And then finally lower costs. We got over $2 million of lower costs year-over-year. You are talking about $0.5 million. I can get you back up to of over $1 billion of pretax income and then for the year you roll that out you are $4.5 billion, say, on pretax.

And then this year for the total year you obviously got tax credits of about $2.4 billion for the whole year. And with that walk that we are giving you, say the tax credits, the one times, and another things don't repeat at that same level.

Even if you were $1 billion less of tax credits, you would have $1.4 billion. You are still close to -- on the total GE Capital a higher number than the $5 million. You can get yourself up to $5.5 million to $6 million. So again imprecise macro numbers off of the fourth quarter, but I think it's consistent with the framework we have laid out to get to $5 billion for GE Capital Finance for 2009.

BOB CORNELL: Okay, we will fine tune that; I hear you. I think we had thought that you, GE might give us some thought about the first quarter maybe in terms of a percent of the earnings that might appear in the first quarter. Is that a possible on this call?

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we have said we are not going to give quarterly EPS guidance and I think we are sticking to that. We have given you the framework for '09 and I think people just have to build their own model. You can look at what the percent of the year is historically. You can look at run rates that we have by business. You can do your own modeling about how costs benefits come in based on restructuring and things like that. We are not giving any guidance on the first quarter EPS.

JEFF IMMELT: We did update the framework. Again, Bob, we did update the framework and the updated framework says based on backlog, order rate, cost out, productivity in Industrial we still think zero to five is solid for the year. And Keith just gave you kind of a walk on Capital Finance and so look, I think the framework is something that we want to stick with. We did update that today and say that we still think based on what we are seeing it still looks okay.

BOB CORNELL: We will sharpen our pencil. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, good morning. So just a quick follow-up to Jeff's question on the FX, of that 7.5, how much came within GE Capital?

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at GE Capital's equity on its own, it's about $6 billion from FX. So if you look at GE Capital ended third quarter about $56 million of equity, ended the year at $53 million. Basically, the $6 billion of change from currency translation was offset by the $5.5 billion contribution we put in from the parent.

NIGEL COE: Okay, okay. Then a question the kept popping up quite a bit is on a balance sheet reserves for the losses are currently running below the loss provision in the P&L. The question is if you are expecting $10 billion of losses in 2009 on why wouldn't the balance sheet reflect that $10 billion?

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, I think what we have to do is we have to have losses reflect what is the embedded loss in the portfolio, and it's very statistically driven. I think if you look at the fourth-quarter provision of 31, it's probably a little high on a run rate. But the provision that we have for losses is exactly what we need based on what is embedded in the current book we have.

Unfortunately, we can't book losses for things that we think might happen in the future. For example, our loss estimate of $10 billion, Nigel, has an average assumption of over 9% unemployment now. , but that is not where it is today. so I can't book losses for things that I am forecasting in the future, but I am anticipating it in how I put my

NIGEL COE: Okay, that is clear. Then just again on a commercial real estate, I just want to clear that up. So basically the carrying value of the real estate is the intrinsic value, i.e. the discounted rental income that you are recognizing. Is that correct? So even if you get (multiple speakers)

KEITH SHERIN: Carrying value is the book value offset by annual depreciation.

NIGEL COE: Right. So long as the intrinsic, i.e. the discounted value of the rents, kind of holds that value. Even if there is a large gap between intrinsic and market values then you still wouldn't feel pressured to write down --?

KEITH SHERIN: The actual FAS 144 test is not on a discounted cash flow basis, it's on discounted future cash flows. So we do test for the fair value and that is how we come up with our embedded loss that we have talked to you about today. But the actual accounting test is an undiscounted cash flow look.

NIGEL COE: Okay, that is clear. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I am trying to understand a little bit, you have talked a little bit about the statistical models and your reserve levels. And just not being a finance guy, you look back at 2002, 2003 your reserve coverage was a lot higher. Just given how dire this crisis has been so far, how do you tweak these models to make them realistic?

KEITH SHERIN: We have a significant amount of work going on on it. I just want to go back -- if you go back -- everyone goes back to 2000 levels, the business prior to 2001/2002 -- I don't know exactly when the change was made based on accounting requirements. I had kept a loss provision of 2.63 year in and year out and the accounting changed where you had to reflect the embedded loss in your book.

As a result, as the portfolio quality improved and delinquencies went down and we had a very obviously good period from a credit perspective that went down to what the actual embedded loss was. So the change in loss reserves going back to historic time is really driven by a different requirement from a loss provisioning perspective.

If you look at where we are today, we have done a complete study in the fourth quarter based on the delinquencies we saw and based on the pressure that everybody has on it. Obviously, we would be crazy not to be putting a ton of resources on it, making sure we get it right. The entire team is focused on getting it right.

We look at our statistical models. We look at historic loss rates. We look at an updated in the fourth quarter for more recent loss experience based on delinquency rates. And we increased the provisions by over $0.5 billion after tax based on that study, so I think we are really trying to make sure we are current and getting it right.

But we are in a terrible credit environment. We are going to see more pressure from the consumer. We are going to see more pressure from the commercial. We are anticipating it and the provisions are going to have to increase as we see that materialize. And so we are trying to forecast a worse environment than we see today and that is going to be reflected in higher loss provisions as we go forward, Scott. It's just the way the math is going to work in the formulas.

SCOTT DAVIS: Sure. Maybe it would be helpful if you just refresh our memory on what percent of assets have to be mark-to-market versus the long-lived assets?

KEITH SHERIN: In total, the majority of our book are financing receivables and those have to reflect the fair value based on the embedded loss. So the majority of our assets, the vast majority of our assets are financing receivables. They have a reserve provision, which I have shown you, that results in a net realizable value based on the fair value of the receivable less -- the value of the receivable less the reserve that you have for your embedded loss.

The actual mark-to-market assets in the book is somewhere around $10 billion that flows directly through the income statement. We have another $45 million of assets in our insurance portfolio in our Trinity short-term guaranteed investment contract portfolio. Those are mark-to-market through other comprehensive income. But the vast majority of this book are financing receivables.

Then the other category would be the long-lived assets like the real estate equity book and like equipment lease to others, some of the operating leases in the GECAS portfolio, things like that that are held at historical cost and tested for impairment.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Then lastly, and I know we talked a lot about this in December, but can we talk about the dividend rationale? It's clearly not supporting your stock. The stock is yielding almost 10%. You just issued debt at about 7%, so you have a cost of equity that is extraordinarily high given your cost of debt.

So can you talk a little bit about -- the capital markets are telling you something, but does that play into your decision whether to keep the dividend, does it not? Are you waiting to see what kind of unemployment rates we are sitting on in six months before you make a more longer-term decision? Maybe just talk through what the thought process and also just what the Board has been discussing since your update in December.

JEFF IMMELT: Sure, Scott. What I would say is that the results that we got in the quarter were what we thought we would get when we had the December meeting. The cash flow was actually stronger, so our cash position is actually improved today versus even where we were in December. The overall capital inside the Company, cash inside the Company is almost $50 billion. Our industrial cash flow for the quarter was $5.3 billion, so we feel good about the liquidity and the cash plan inside the Company.

So then the question is how do you use that capital and how do you use that cash? We are investing in the future, so we are not starving the businesses. We are reinvesting back into the long-term growth of the Company. It has just been our feeling that the dividend is a good return to investors in this moment of uncertainty, but we are not straining in order to pay it.

In other words, we have got lots of cash and lots of free cash flow and lots of capital inside the Company. And so it has just been the judgment that this has been the most investor-friendly use of this capital.

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Good explanation. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Jason Feldman, UBS.

JASON FELDMAN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. So if I am reading the slides right, you are showing that the reserves you are expecting to increase about $2 billion into '09, but provisions are only going up about $2.5 billion. So am I missing something? Are you basically only expecting write-offs to increase $500 million, $600 million next year?

KEITH SHERIN: Provisions include the write-offs and reserves.

JASON FELDMAN: Understood. So if the provision is up 2.5 --?

KEITH SHERIN: Write-offs were up $2 billion this year. We really have a massive acceleration of write-offs even at -- with the provision up $3 billion, the write-offs were up $2 billion. I think you are seeing those at a run rate that is more reflective certainly on the consumer side then probably going to accelerate, I would say, on the commercial side, yes.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay. So you expect a deceleration in the rate of growth of the write-offs?

KEITH SHERIN: On the consumer side.

JASON FELDMAN: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Steve Tusa, JPMorgan.

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Just a question on the reserves. I noticed that you didn't really change the mix much of consumer and commercial and it's kind of hard to read on the bar chart. Commercial looks actually -- and this is on the credit losses -- looks actually flat relative to '08.

Looking at some of the loss statistics and what you guys have said about the corporate credit cycle is that conservative enough or does that increase again in 2010? If you could just talk about the dynamics around the commercial side, because it looks like once again most of the provisioning is coming from consumer.

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the total allowance was up about $400 million from the third quarter. In the commercial business it was up $600 million year-over-year, so we are stepping into the commercial allowance as well. I think the difference is that we are senior secured and you are going to see a slower loss cycle on the commercial side.

On the consumer side, obviously, we are already seeing it; on the delinquencies in the US books, specifically. I think the mortgage book has a slower and more delayed loss response. But, yes, we have stepped up on the commercial side based on broad pressure in the economy, higher delinquencies, and higher non-earnings.

STEVE TUSA: But am I right that you are saying that basically the '09 rate is about in line with '08 because you stepped up so much in the fourth quarter I guess is what you are saying?

KEITH SHERIN: I think both are going to be up in 2009, Steve; maybe the bar chart doesn't show it. I will have to get you some better numbers on it, but both are clearly going to be up in 2009.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. And then as far as the (multiple speakers) -- sorry.

KEITH SHERIN: When you take the provision up to $10 billion you are going to see three-quarters of that is in the consumer side, the increase in [product quarter] in the commercial side.

JEFF IMMELT: Look, I think from the December 2 meeting we have taken the loss provisions up $1 billion in '10. And I think stepped into some of it in the fourth quarter and taking the estimates up for next year, and then the $5 billion walk haven't changed the dynamic around losses. So I think we feel like we have been pretty conservative. I don't think there is any reason not to be conservative as we estimate these losses.

We are in the credit cycle. We have been in this business for a long time. We underwrite differently than the banks, we are senior secured. But, look, I think we have done a lot to step into a very tough environment.

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Steve, I just looked at the bar chart. The bar chart -- the bars haven't been updated for the increase of the number at the top of the bar, so I apologize for that.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, so that is the -- so commercial is actually higher than what that bar chart shows?

KEITH SHERIN: Right, the bar chart is related to the December 2. We didn't change the bar in there; we just updated the number for the total losses. Sorry about that.

STEVE TUSA: Got you. I thought my ruler was wrong for a second. When you look at the mark-to-market you said I think this year how much did you have in mark-to-market? 1.6 billion I think you said?

KEITH SHERIN: On a pretax basis, yes.

STEVE TUSA: $1.6 billion. So that applies to everything, basically, other than your receivables base, so like $200 billion in assets, I guess? Is that the number we should be thinking about?

KEITH SHERIN: It would be a lot less than that.

STEVE TUSA: Okay.

KEITH SHERIN: I think the mark-to-market -- some of the impairments are obviously on the $200 billion that is not financing receivables. But a lot of the impairments that we took this year were on public equity securities. We had a couple of billion dollars that is down to about $1 billion, I believe, the amount that is sitting there in that category. So we have had definitely a lot of marks that we have taken that have reduced the basis of a lot of the public securities that we had.

STEVE TUSA: Right. And then one more question, and this goes back to cash flow. I guess on the Industrial side you guys have some pretty solid working capital targets to generate the cash. Is there anything -- a lot of companies are kind of pulling out all of the stops to conserve cash. Is there anything that you guys are doing?

Maybe you could just talk about what you are doing on your payables maybe or at GE Capital whether it's rebate programs to accelerate, balance reductions at your customers? Anything there that would be -- can you just talk about how you have changed those policies to really batten down the hatches here? I know all companies are doing that stuff. I am just curious as to how you guys are going about that.

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. We have got an operating counsel, as Jeff said. The focus is on margins and on cash. When you look at cash we have got specific targets for every single business around inventory. We are using lean throughout the Company to drive inventory down, to get our cycle times down. We are using the same techniques around our receivables.

We are working diligently to reduce our past due receivables across the Company, to change our terms where we have got too much extended terms versus the margin we get on the equipment. We do have a discount program with GE Capital where suppliers can get paid early by taking a discount that has got a good ROE on it. And we are working on a supply base to try and extend our payable terms by about four or five days.

So every element of working capital is being intensely worked on here across this company. I think the thing on working capital that the environment change actually helps us on, as you know, we have had high single-digit, double-digit revenue growth in the Industrial business for the last three years. Now we are going into a tougher environment, we are not going to need as much working capital. And that is going to help us a lot from a cash flow perspective in 2009 in addition to all of the actions we are doing from the operating council.

STEVE TUSA: What are normal payables terms, just at high levels?

KEITH SHERIN: About 55, 60 days.

STEVE TUSA: Okay. Great, thanks.

JEFF IMMELT: The point I would make, just to amplify what Keith said is we have done a lot here to be able to control our own destiny. We have taken the cost out. We have for the last year been driving real cash programs. I think some of that showed up in the fourth quarter. We are just running the place with intensity. And I think the fact that we have got almost $50 billion of cash and liquidity and strong programs demonstrates that we have done the right actions to be able to weather this cycle.

STEVE TUSA: Then just one more very quick one, how much of your backlog ships in 2009?

KEITH SHERIN: I thought it was a little over half.

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, the chart in December, Steve, I think really shows --

KEITH SHERIN: Got about $26 billion of the $50 billion.

STEVE TUSA: Okay, great. Thanks a lot, guys.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Lauren, we are bumping against 10 o'clock here. Why don't take we just take one more question?

OPERATOR: Terry Darling, Goldman Sachs.

TERRY DARLING, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, Keith, trying to be quick here. Coming back to the value gap discussion, you had mentioned you are expecting $2 billion of raw materials savings in '09 in your forecast. Wondering if you can give us the net number there which would lead us to ask you about price assumption in that context?

KEITH SHERIN: We are going to expect to see a positive price in 2009. A lot of that, obviously, is already in the backlog, Terry. We haven't given out a number of what the net dollar amount is between the two. What we said in December, and Jeff outlined, was that we expect margins to grow and we had a number of tailwinds that were going to help us. We have got price in the backlog.

We had, originally, when we came into the fourth quarter of '08 businesses looking at about a little bit of inflation. We have been working with the sourcing teams to actually turn that into deflation. And we are talking about a big part of that direct material drop to be from deflation that we are going to get from the supply chain as we work through the year here and as the global economy slows and people are going to be really chasing the commodity supplies.

TERRY DARLING: Also, in terms of the shift here where profit starts to outperform revenue on the Industrial side, should we be expecting that shift to occur in the first half or more in the second half?

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have a breakout of that, Terry. I think we are going to have to work on that. I think you are going to see Equipment versus Services all here along turn into more of a Services revenue growth versus Equipment. I don't know exactly the pace by quarter.

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Terry, is that the Service versus Equipment will probably be flip-flopped in the first half of the year. The value gap I think is pretty solid right now and the restructuring actions kind of get vetted in as the year goes on. So you got some that will happen in the first half and some that will happen in the second half is the way I would say it.

TERRY DARLING: And then in terms of the additional restructuring, do you have a number we ought to be thinking about in terms of building into the -- additional restructuring number we could talk about in terms of building into the numbers at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: We had this year about $1.5 billion after tax and next year we are including in the framework about $0.5 billion after tax.

TERRY DARLING: So no update there at this point?

KEITH SHERIN: $1.5 billion to $0.5 billion.

TERRY DARLING: Thanks very much.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Terry, thanks for your final questions. I will turn it over to Jeff Immelt for final questions (multiple speakers).

JEFF IMMELT: Again, in a very tough environment we delivered results that were consistent with what we talked about in December; earned almost $4 billion in the quarter and $18 billion for the year. I think the highlight of the quarter is the strong Industrial cash flow and the really strong strength of the balance sheet, particularly with the cash on hand on the balance sheet. The framework for 2009 we have no change to and that is what we talked about in December.

Lastly, I just want to go back to a point which I think was part of Scott's question is that we think given the strong operating performance of the company and the framework and the strong capital position that we still believe that supporting the dividend and doing it without straining. Doing it just by controlling our own destiny and by executing with excellence. That is the best use of capital and capital allocation.

We run the Company to be a AAA. We have supported and have on hand lots of cash and lots of capital. And we are really running the place, controlling our own destiny with real excellence and focus. So thanks for your attention and, Trevor, turn it back to you.

TREVOR SCHAUENBERG: Thanks, Jeff. Just a few closing items for everyone, appreciate everyone's questions and their time today. A replay will be available this afternoon on our website. Our next earnings call for the first quarter will be held on April 17 and as always Joanne and I will be available to take your questions today. Thank you very much for your time.

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ghurr : Storms | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gdis : Disasters/Accidents | gntdis : Natural Disasters/Catastrophes | grisk : Risk News | gwea : Weather | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
uk : United Kingdom | usa : United States | eecz : European Union Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090130e51n000jh
  


 HD
 General Electric Q2  Earnings Call - Final  
   WC
12,365 words
   PD
14 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric second-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Michelle and I'll be your conference coordinator for today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Dan Janki, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed.  

DAN JANKI, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Jill, thank you. We'd like to welcome everyone. JoAnna and I are pleased to host today's earnings conference call. Hopefully you saw our press release that went out at 6:30 this morning. That along with today's presentation supplemental information is available at our investor website,  www.ge.com/investor . You can follow along online or you can download and print the information.  

   TD
Do remember that this presentation does contain forward-looking information that's based on the world and economic environment as we see it today. That is subject to change, so please view the information in light of that. Today we'll cover 2Q earnings, we'll give you a third-quarter outlook and then we'll take your questions. So to do that we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt, and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Keith Sherin. So at this time I'd like to turn it over to Jeff to get us started.  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Dan, thanks and good morning, everyone. I just want to start off -- again, I think we view this as a very good quarter for the Company. I'll start by talking a little bit about the environment. You know, in terms of tailwinds, our economy and the markets for our products remain very strong and we're seeing good activity across almost all of our segments in GE.  

The changing energy landscape that we've dealing with the last two years or so has really been more of an opportunity for the Company; we can capitalize on some of the technical leadership we have in areas like rail and energy, aviation business and that's helped our major equipment businesses. And we're seeing good growth around the world, particularly in emerging markets where we grew 18%. Lots of liquidity in the Capital Markets, a good risk environment and, again, our assets and balance sheets remain very strong.  

The headwind -- we've been dealing with inflation for the last two years, we continue to deal with that in terms of both interest rates and commodities. And in terms of specific business challenges, clearly plastics in a time like this is a much tougher environment and we've seen that in the last two quarters. And NBC, our expectations there are on plan and we see some good momentum as we enter the second half of the year at NBC Universal. And then from a corporate standpoint, we continue to fund a pension earnings decline and our increasing funding and restructuring as we look at the second half of the year and into 2007. So we think we're achieving a good solid excellent performance in this environment and feel good about how the Company is positioned for the second half of the year.  

If you go to the next page, just some of the key performance metrics for the Company. From a growth standpoint 17% orders growth, 9% revenue growth, 12% asset growth. So pretty strong overall for GE across, again, most business segments. Earnings per share were up 15% which was in line with estimates and, again, very strong earnings growth for the Company. Our return on total capital was up 200 basis points to 17.6%. This is something we've spoken a lot with investors as being a priority for the Company and we're seeing great progress there.  

Our margins were down slightly, 50 basis points, and a lot of good work inside the Company was offset by a drag at NBC Universal and plastics. But that's a big priority and we see some gains there in the second half of the year. And cash is very strong, up 78%, consistent with what our expectations were. So one of the key strategic priorities for the Company is to be a -- sustain outperformance through the cycles. We think these metrics are in line with those -- with that strategic imperative.  

If you go to the next page, just an update on some of the long-term strategies that the Company is executing on. Our focus, number one, is to continue to build great businesses. In the quarter we invested in our water business, are healthcare business and NBCU. Our growth platforms grew revenues 18% and we exited the insurance solutions business, which was something that we considered to be a big strategic priority for the Company, and announced the sale of GE supply as we continue to reposition our industrial assets.  

Second is reliable execution. We had five of six businesses with segment profit growth at 10% plus. Infrastructure orders are booming. NBCU turnaround is on plan. We have solid financial service performance. And again, the one negative was operating profit leverage which turns in the second half and is a key focus for all of us. A third comment -- growth initiatives, we saw great organic growth which I'll go into a little bit more detail and our important service revenue grew 12% with long-term service agreements at almost $90 billion.  

And from an organizational standpoint, we're on track for $400 million of synergy this year and we're seeing good improvements from enterprise selling in terms of having better market facing organization. So we continue to execute and build long-term value in the Company and we're happy with the performance and the update in the quarter.  

The next page -- you know, the big strategic initiative that we've got going inside the Company right now is growth as process. We've hit our sixth straight quarter of 8% organic or 2 to 3 -- organic growth that's two to three times GDP. It was 8% in the second quarter. What we do is talk about the elements of this initiative led by great technology and services. We really have a strong pipeline of new products which we think positions us well for the second half of the year and onto 2007 and our backlog is at record highs. We've got equipment up 28% and CSAs again at a very strong level.  

Our imagination breakthroughs will deliver about to 2 to $3 billion of internal revenue; I just picked off three of them. Today our Hispanic media share is up 11 points. Our Monogram appliance growth is up 13% and our hospital equipment financing asset growth is up 33%. On commercial excellence we continue to drive incremental growth there. Our ecomagination productline orders are up 20% in the second quarter and the Olympics are on track for $700 million of orders. This is above and beyond the performance of NBC. This is the industrial orders that we expect to get around the 2008 Olympics.  

We continue to drive process improvements with our key customers and using that process to gain share. We have 30 lean showcase events delivering customer impact and this continues to be a big initiative inside the Company right now promoters score. Our global growth is very robust and developing country growth is 18% for the quarter and we continue to drill this inside our leadership team as we look at where we stand.  

So the goal is to have sustainable and visible and valuable growth and we think that's what we're executing on. And again, we think six great quarters and we continue to have a pretty good view that that's going to continue in the future. So with that I'm going to turn it over to Keith to go through the financial details of the quarter and then I'll be back to wrap it up later.  

KEITH SHERIN, SVP, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks. Let me start with growth. Second-quarter orders continued very strong, $22 billion across the Company, up 17%. It's a fantastic result for us, bodes well for the future. And if you look at the pieces on the left side -- major equipment, over $8 billion of orders, up 33% in the second quarter. We continue to remind investors this is lumpy as these orders come in in terms of timing, but this is another terrific quarter. If you look at the businesses, aviation for example is listed as favorable. The orders in aviation around the world are up three times.  

So the second one is energy, up over 40%. Oil and gas up over 25%. Healthcare I'll cover when we get to the healthcare business, up 4%. And transportation -- it shows in the quarter it's down year-over-year, but even transportation year-to-date is up 21% and those guys -- I'll talk about the financial results -- they're just having a great year and they are sold out.  

In the middle is services. $7.5 billion, up 13%. Having double-digit services growth is terrific for us in terms of profitability. You can see the business results, strong double-digits across all the segments. Aviation is up 5 and that's really got two elements to it. First, the commercial services businesses is up 10% and the military services business is down in the second quarter dragging that down to 5%. So year-to-date up 17% and overall in infrastructure close to $6 billion the services business up 13%.  

And then on the right side flow business, close to $7 billion of orders, up 8% in the quarter. Again, this is a good sign of broad global growth. You can see the numbers down around the different parts of the world. U.S. strong up 9, Europe up 4%, Asia up 6%. Good global economic activity. So when we see orders overall across the Company up 17%, this is just a terrific economic performance by our origination teams.  

Next I'll jump into some of the core indicators for financial services. The left side of the chart is about margins for our financial services business. If you look at the blue bars, these are net revenue or contributed value -- so it's our total revenue less the interest cost as a percent of our average assets. So basically you can see that year-over-year we're down about 16 basis points across all our financing businesses and the right side bars, the green bars are risk adjusted.  

So what we do is we take our net revenues less our losses and you can see that despite the fact that there is a lot of liquidity in the market our loss performance has just continued to decline. The quality of the portfolio is in great shape and as a result our risk adjusted margins are stable and then we're able to improve our profitability with both productivity and volume and we have a big focus on risk adjusted pricing.  

On the right side you can see the quality of the portfolio. You look at 30 plus day delinquencies. They continue to show the great performance in our portfolios. The consumer finance delinquencies are up 7 basis points, that's basically flat with our global mix. Equipment financing delinquencies are down slightly, again basically flat. Just it's about as good a time as you can get for the quality of this portfolio based on our global markets. And on the bottom right utilization for the equipment services business also shows continued strength in the economy. If you look at utilization of 87% in the quarter, Penske, railcar, trailers -- they're all up slightly from Q1. So the portfolio here continues to be in great shape.  

Now Jeff mentioned that we're not satisfied with our operating profit rate in the second quarter and I wanted give you a chart to show the details of that and more importantly the outlook for the rest of the year. So before I get into the percents I just want to be clear, we are growing our operating profit dollars. But for our own internal goals we also want to drive to improve the rate. So on the left side you see the rate went from 15.4% in the second quarter last year down to 14.9% this year. It's down 50 basis points and it's really four simple drivers for us.  

On a year-over-year basis, with NBC down through the quarter -- through the half around 10%, that's a half a point drag on our margin rate. The second one is a good news/bad news story. First of all, in infrastructure our product revenues are growing at two times the rate of our service revenues. So the great news is we're getting tremendous orders, we're building a backlog and we're shipping a lot of that equipment to build the installed base which will deliver future service revenues. But right now obviously with the margin mix between equipment and services, that's been a two tenths of a point drag on the rate.  

Jeff mentioned plastics. We are continuing to see tough trade-offs with price and volume and inflation. That's about four tents of a point on the rate. And then finally, the rest of the businesses and the productivity that we drive is a six tenths increase. So it's down 50 basis points, but the right side is where we're growing and in the second half we're going to grow margin by about 80 basis points. It's the same four factors. The difference is three out of the four are positive and productivity continues, but we're going to continue to get good margin growth in our businesses by driving costs and working on pricing and offsetting inflation with activity.  

Infrastructure services revenue equals the product revenue in the second half. So it's really about more normal comparisons rather than run rate slowing down. And the NBC, I'm going to show you that in the fourth quarter we go positive. And then finally, we're going to continue to wrestle with drastic price inflation throughout the year. So that will continue to be a pressure.  

But another way to think about this is if you look at the second half our infrastructure business, our industrial business and our healthcare business are all going to grow our operating profit by about 1.5 points in the second half. So we've got broad-based focus on this in the Company and we have a good outlook for the up profit growth as we go into the rest of the year.  

Now let me cover the second-quarter consolidated results. On the left side is the income statement for continuing operations. Revenues -- this is a really strong performance, $39.9 billion, up 9%. You can see its mix -- it's good strong revenue growth in both industrial and financial services. Earnings of $4.9 billion, up 11%. EPS at $0.47, at 15%. Great cash flow results. $14.3 billion at the half, up 78% and the industrial cash flow has grown in line with earnings, up 9%.  

And then on the bottom left is the tax rate and these tax rates are right in line with previous guidance. If you look at the GE industrial rate ex GECS, the second quarter is at 24%, year-to-date we're at 24%, right in line with what we said. And the GE Capital services rate, we have booked to what we estimate the total year rate is. We estimate the total year rate at 13% with a higher rate a little bit in the first quarter the second quarter came in at 11; but again, it's right in line with what we said our guidance was for the total year.  

So I look at the tax rate for the second quarter and basically the impact is neutral on our net income. If you look, the industrial rate is about 1.5 points lower than last year, so year-over-year, when we come in at 24 it's about 1.5 points lower. That equally offsets the fact that the capital rate is 1.9 points higher year-over-year. So really no impact on earnings quality year-over-year from tax rates here and straightly consistent with what we said we were going to do in terms of taxes.  

So on the right side I want to summarize the second-quarter segment results. If you go business by business, the revenues and the segment profit were in line with guidance. I'm going to take you through the pieces of that. And before I do that there's one other point on the income statement. I saw some of the preannouncement notes about the impact of foreign exchange on the Company and I thought I'd just clear that up. Quarter-over-quarter, year-over-year we had foreign exchange be about a 1 point drag on our revenue. So without the impact of foreign exchange revenues would've been higher by 1 point. And it had about a $54 million net income drag on our earnings from the average stronger dollar during the during quarter year-over-year. So we did have an impact of foreign exchange and it was a drag.  

Next is cash flow. $14.3 billion for the half, that's up 78%. You can really see the pieces here on the left side, the GECS dividend going from 1.8 to $7.6 billion. Down in the bottom that's really driven by the regular dividend from GE Capital at 40% of earnings, about 1.9 billion, and then the special dividends from insurance. We have -- in the first quarter we had the final tranche at Genworth, it was about $2.5 billion. And in the second quarter, as Jeff mentioned, we're really pleased to gather the proceeds from the GE insurance solution sale, $3.2 billion, and that closed June 9th, as we said.  

We also had a terrific quarter in industrial. When you look at CFOA through the half it's at $6.7 billion, it's up 9%. And with all this cash flow we were able to repurchase $6 billion of stock through the first half. So we're well on our way for our stated 7 to $9 billion goal this year of buyback.  

On the right side is just the cash balance walk we always give you. You know you start with a beginning balance of cash from the beginning of the year; we add the CFOA of 14.3 from the left side of the chart. We paid $5.2 billion of dividends. We bought back $6 billion of stock. We had about $1.5 billion of plant and equipment expenditures. We had $2.8 billion year-to-date of acquisitions. The biggest one of those is -- IDX was about $1.4 billion. ZENON was about $700 million. And then changing debt and other to end the quarter with $1.8 billion of cash. So strong delivery through the first half and on track for the total year. Our estimate of $25 billion of CFOA up 15% is in good shape.  

Before I go to the businesses I thought I'd show you the outlook for third quarter. We continue to see strong top line. You can see that with the Vs here, on the revenue Vs across the portfolio. And a pretty similar segment profit outlook profile to Q2 across the Company. And I'll take you through, as I said, business by business.  

But on the right side of the overall GE guidance is revenues of $40 billion plus, up 10%; another strong topline quarter as growth as a process just continues to deliver quarter after quarter. Our earnings 5 to $5.2 billion, up 8 to 14% and earnings per share 48 to 50 up 12 to 16%. So we are continuing with our existing guidance; we haven't changed it for the third quarter $0.48 to $0.50, up 12 to 16%, another great quarter.  

With that let me take you through the businesses. I'll start with infrastructure and I've got the summary of infrastructure on this page and then the next page I do a little more detail on energy and aviation just to continue to give you information about those two important businesses in this section in Dave Calhoun's world. Overall, revenues were up 11%, $11.3 billion. Segment profit at $2.1 billion, up 10%.  

On the bottom left -- we've got a lot of businesses in this segment and I thought I'd give you a few comments for each one of them. Let me start with aviation. Revenues were up 11, op profit was up 6. The revenues were really driven by higher commercial engine sales -- commercial engine revenues were up 20%. Service revenue was up 10% and that's partially offset by lower military revenue which was down a little over 25%.  

Now the op profit was impacted by the mix of basically two things. Number one, we had more engines versus services. Now the commercial engines go out with low single-digit margins versus the service and military revenues that I just mentioned, you know, 30 to 40% margins. And number two, we accelerated some NBI spending on the GEnx into the first half. And I think if you look, really just a little bit of timing because if you do the whole business for the first half op profit is up 13% and, as I said, I'll go into more detail about aviation on the next page so we feel pretty good about where we are there.  

Aviation financial services just had a great quarter. The driver of growth here was core growth and basically no repeat of a $50 million plus after-tax provision for USAir from last year in the second quarter, so they've got a terrific performance. Energy rebounded just like we outlined in the first quarter. We had stronger revenue driven by wind. Wind revenue was up 69% -- 427 wind units in the second quarter which was up over 106 units. The service revenues were up 10% and the op profit growth was up 10%. We're happy to have it being back to double-digit growth in the energy business just like we outlined. It's driven by both services and wind improvement and we're still working on improving leverage.  

We're dealing with gas turbine mix margin compression versus 2005. But I'll tell you, we feel great about the progress the team has made and, as I said, I'll cover a little more detail on energy on the next page. Energy financial services was down year-over-year. The team had good core growth, but basically that was offset by a nonrepeat of a big cash settlement we had last year in a U.S. gen bankruptcy and that just didn't have a comparable in 2006.  

And then finally, oil and gas and transportation, they're just having tremendous quarters. If you look oil and gas, the equipment revenues are up 62%. Service revenues were up 23% and these guys are really doing a great job delivering op profit. Transportation is having a tremendous year. We delivered 215 EVO locomotives. That was up 11%. We have 1,500 locomotives on the backlog. We're getting great leverage as we improve our cost position on the product. And when you look at the whole package of infrastructure for the third quarter we see broad-based strength continue and we're forecasting the overall segment profit to be up 15 to 20% for the third quarter.  

So let me show you additional detail on energy and aviation. For both businesses what we wanted to do here was layout the first half and the second half dynamics. And let me start on the left side with energy. Revenues up 6 and op profit down 6 in the first half. We showed you it was down in the first quarter, it was up double-digit in the second quarter. We just see continued dramatic improvement as you get into the second half -- 20 to 25% revenue growth, 25 to 30% op profit and the biggest driver is wind momentum.  

Wind just continues to grow. It gets stronger in the second half. The units will be up over 30%. We'll have closed to 1,300 units in the second half versus about 950 last year in the second half. That's around $700 million of revenue increase. We are making margin on these units. We've had double-digit price increases and in total for the second half the op profit performance improvement in wind is going to be about $260 million. So wind has been profitable all year. And it really ramps up in the second half in the fourth quarter specifically.  

The second driver is just continued performance in service. The service orders in the second quarter, as you saw, were up double-digit, up 16%. That momentum will continue and the second half revenue should be strong double-digit in the energy business. And the third driver is just a better performance in units in gas turbines. We have 89 units in the backlog for the second half of this year versus 66 last year, so we've got an over 20 unit expansion. And we will see margin expansion in the energy business by the fourth quarter and we feel great about the progress and the outlook.  

On the right side aviation has had a good first half, 14% revenue, 13% op profit. We continue to have a solid performance in this business in the second half with somewhat -- I think most of the driver here is easier comparisons. The first half leverage was impacted by the higher R&D, as I mentioned on the GEnx, the R&D was up 13%. But the second half R&D compares to higher spending the last year in the second half. We're not cutting the run rates here; what we're talking about is that we've already built that into the previous year base.  

Commercial service orders, the same as energy, will continue to be strong. The first half military revenue was flat and the second half should be up. If you remember, last year we had a lot of push out from the delays of the military budget process and hopefully that will give us some pretty easy comparisons.  

And then finally, the first half commercial engine revenues, as I said, they were just booming. They were up 30%. The good run rates continue; but again, back to comparisons, the run rates -- even with those deliveries the commercial engines continue to be very strong that will only be up 7% versus the second half last year. So overall the mix will improve. So on track for the total year op profit and we're talking about up 15% for the year.  

Now, you know, before I move on I just want to step back on infrastructure. I think if you look the total orders for infrastructure 46% year-to-date, the revenue so far is up 10%. We are continuing to build a backlog, we are shipping a lot of equipment and growing the installed base and that's going to lead to a great future service business and future margin expansion.  

Let me shift to commercial finance. The team had just another great quarter. You can see that in the numbers -- the revenues were up 12; the segment profit was up 21%. The earnings growth was really led by strong performances in both capital solutions with earnings up 33% and real estate with earnings up 39%. The asset growth here in this business was up 11% over the second quarter 2005. This is the strongest result we've had in eight quarters. It's mainly the result of just terrific originations in both the real estate and capital solutions business.  

But we did have some acquisitions -- for example, we closed the $3.3 billion acquisition of assets from the Arden transaction. So acquisitions have helped us a little bit as well. But we have had great core growth and you can see that in the top right; the volume has been very strong and broad-based. You can see the numbers across the different businesses. We've got terrific diversification and our origination teams out there are really doing a great job and we're seeing a lot of market activity that's delivering profitable growth.  

Segment profit was pretty much driven by core growth. We did have about $20 million contribution from acquisitions in the quarter as total result but that was offset by $20 million lower securitization. So all the teams are really doing a good job delivering. And as I said earlier, the portfolio quality is very strong -- non earnings, delinquencies and write-offs are all down versus prior year and historical averages. And right now we see the third-quarter outlook to be pretty similar -- segment profit up 10 to 15%. The commercial finance team is really delivering.  

Next is industrial. They had a very strong quarter. You look revenues at $8.8 billion, up 6%, and they've done a terrific job of getting leverage on the segment profit line, up 15%. Basically, if you look at it down the bottom left, C&I had a great quarter, $3.8 billion of revenue and $380 million of segment profit, up 40%. The price and productivity more than offset the material inflation and other inflation in this business and they're getting good volume. They're really doing a good job with their high-end strategy, mix up in appliances and they're seeing broad-based growth in the industrial segment.  

Plastics had a tougher quarter. If you look revenues were up 3% and op profit was down 12%. We have very strong volume in plastics. Volume was up 10% pretty broad-based growth across a lot of different industry segments offset somewhat by automotive but the factor that really hurt us here was pricing. Pricing was 387 a [kg] in the second quarter this year versus over 411 last year a kg, so it is down 6% and the strong volume margin improvements of over $60 million were more than offset by that price decline of about $100 million.  

Benzene in the quarter didn't have much of a factor for us. It was about $3 a gallon so that was flat but the op profit with that volume price mix was down 12% despite a lot of productivity and pretty good work by the team. So when you look forward to the third quarter we see pretty similar dynamics for this segment. We expect segment profit to be up 15% plus. C&I should continue. We're seeing a lot of good volume across the businesses. Price carryover will continue to offset inflation and we have to work on optimizing the plastics price volume and inflation equation. Third quarter benzene was something we have to watch here. If you look, benzene spiked to 387 for July and the third quarter outlook we have for plastics with that impact is about flat. So overall segment profit up 15% and we're going to be watching the plastics dynamics.  

Next is NBCU. NBCU had a tough quarter but it came out exactly as we outlined it. Revenues were flat and segment profit was down about 10% and the profile was the way we thought it was going to happen. Prime, stations and TV production op profit was down about 45%, just as we said. You know, this is the final -- third quarter now will be the final quarter where we're dealing with the upfronts from last year so that is playing out as we expected but we're making progress. When you look at the balance of the business, op profit was up 5% and there's a lot of bright spots. The summer ratings have been up 10%. News cable op profit was up 28% in the quarter. CNBC is performing very well. MSNBC Prime is up. Entertainment cable is fantastic. USA is the number one cable network.  

And then finally in the quarter we did have the station sales that we talked about in the first quarter and they offset the gain we had last year from (indiscernible) both of about the same amount around $200 million.  

So I think the most positive highlight for NBCU was with the third quarter being the last quarter where we're comparing to last year's upfront impact, we look at the profile going forward, third quarter is kind of similar to the first half, op profit down 5 to 10, but then we turn positive in the fourth quarter and that is just terrific news. We are committed to this business and we are making progress.  

And if you look at the results on the right side, first the total upfront for the '06/'07 season ended at $3.85 billion. Now that includes prime, plus NFL, plus cable, plus all the other day parts -- but that's up a half a percent and the team has done a terrific job with that. We feel great about the early response to our new prime time lineup. We got a lot of good buzz about the shows -- Studio 60, Friday Night Lights, Heroes, Kidnapped, 30 Rock -- and we're getting tremendous feedback on the NFL. So we feel great about our position as we go into the fall here.  

Second, outside of prime we are winning everywhere else. Telemundo is positive, cable is positive, everything around news and Today is positive. Local is winning. In Telemundo we receive two-thirds of every dollar of growth in the Hispanic upfront. The Today Show has a 20% lead in viewers and it's been stronger than ever in the last four weeks. So there's a lot of positive across this portfolio.  

I think one of the things that you've got to -- we're going to have to continue to give you information on is as you look at the third- and fourth-quarter profile the film dynamics are very positive for us in the second half. First of all, in the third quarter we have nine releases which drive the revenue, that's why you're seeing such a strong top line in the third quarter. Including this weekend we have one, You, Me and Dupree, and at the end of the month we have Miami Vice. So there's quite a positive film release schedule in the third quarter which drives the top line.  

And then finally, in the fourth quarter we have very favorable comparisons and that helps to improve our operating profit and one of the big drivers of why we go positive. I think you all remember, last year in the fourth quarter we had King Kong. We spent a significant amount of money with advertising and promotion. We don't have any blockbuster movies like that in the fourth quarter. And so the way the film accounting works we're going to have very positive comparisons in the fourth quarter in film.  

And finally, we are accelerating digital distribution. You know, our digital strategy, the NBC 360 really worked in the upfront, it helped to bring in $300 million of revenue as part of that upfront and iVillage is off to a great start. So when you look forward at NBC we feel good about the progress; we are totally focused on making progress and the third quarter profile will be similar to the first half, but we're really looking forward to the fourth quarter.  

Now finally, on the businesses healthcare and consumer finance, healthcare just had another great quarter. If you looked at the revenues, up 10; segment profit, we continue to have nice leverage in the business, up 18. It was very broad-based growth here in this business. The top line is driven by the technology business, it was up 11%. The biosciences were up 7. You can see the strength in services and MR and medical diagnostics and ultrasound. We had great operating profit growth in both technology and biosciences. The op profit margin in this business expended by 1.3 points. We got almost 4% total cost productivity and the business really is performing with both new product introductions and distribution and services.  

But one area that we're watching is China. They have had a slowing of equipment additions. Our equipment reported orders on the front page of orders were up 4%. Ex China the equipment orders were grew at 7%. So this is good news here, it's a small part of our overall business and it will resume growth, but right now in the second quarter that was a little slow, probably continue for the next several months so it's something we are going to watch. But if you look at the third-quarter outlook, we continue to see just great strong topline growth equipment and services and we expect segment profit to be up 15 to 20%.  

On the right side, consumer finance had another great quarter. Revenues up 7. That's been dampened about 3 points by foreign exchange. So on a global local revenue number that would be about 10. Segment profit up 20, really driven by core growth. I'll take you through the pieces of the segment. We had a very good strong spread of earnings. If you look, the Americas were up 34%. That's really driven by core growth in both our private label credit card and the sales finance and assets in the Americas were up 26%. Delinquencies are down, so we continue to have very good portfolio performance there.  

Last year in the fourth quarter we had a spike in bankruptcies, as everyone knows. Everyone had it with the change in the law. That continues to give us benefits. The U.S. 30-day delinquencies down 15 basis points year-over-year, it's down 18 basis points in the first quarter and the lower bankruptcies have contributed to 20 basis points of lower write-offs. So the portfolio quality continues to be very strong; we don't see any signs of slowing there.  

Europe up 22%, really driven by core growth in Central and Eastern Europe and core growth in the UK. And assets overall up 13% and the portfolio quality is very stable. So this is a good news story globally. The one place that we are watching here is Japan. Earnings are down 14% from both competitive and regulatory pressure. I know you're seeing some stories about rate caps in Japan and we are working on that with the government and with our business trying to be prepared but that probably won't impact us until the second half of '07 or '08. So we've got time to deal with that. But we still made $100 million in Japan with a 40% ROE. So pretty good performance there. When you look at the consumer business for the third quarter, we see segment profit growth up 10 to 15% based on continued good asset growth and good asset quality.  

Now before I turn it back to Jeff I just want to talk about corporate items for the total year and the impact on guidance. A company of our size always has some items and with the industrial disposition activity that we've talked about recently in the press we thought it would be helpful to summarize the impact of that. So on the left side, for the total year 2006 we do expect some benefits from gains. For example, we sold 9% of Penske back to Penske in the second quarter, realized about a 1% gain. We also signed a deal to sell GE Supply to Rexel which should close in the third quarter, could result in another $0.01 gain and there could be more activity for the balance of the year.  

And I think the great news here is that as we do redeployment out of industrial assets, the capital is coming with gains. And on the right side we had plenty of offsets. In the second quarter we had about $45 million of restructuring related charges. We plan to continue to look at other restructuring options and activity as we go through the rest of the year. And for the full year we also have higher non-cash pension expenses which we've already talked about. The $0.04 here also includes some restructuring for early retirement programs, so that's another way that we're continuing to reduce cost and improve future profitability.  

So when you look at the year, we have gains and losses, but these are factored into our total year guidance. We have to deal with the pluses and minuses, but for us the real focus ought to be on the great business results we're delivering and with that I'll turn it back to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith. And just to wrap up on 2006, what I want to do is just kind of recap and give you a sense of how we think about the Company going forward. If you just to down to businesses, infrastructure on track for 15% plus operating profit growth. Again, good momentum in the second half, as Keith outlined, with a lot of equipment backlog shipping and better service growth. If you look at commercial finance, consumer finance and healthcare, all just will continue to stay on track and all have good momentum.  

In industrial we should be on track even with plastics being below the expectations we had a year ago, but other parts of the segment outperforming and doing quite well. And then as we talked about at NBCU, it's all been pretty much what we had forecast for the year and we see some positive signs in NBCU as we look the third and fourth quarter -- I think we should be on track.  

So if you look at the total segments, the businesses should be up 15% for the year and we feel that the other pieces of the elements we gave you last year are all pretty consistent. And so if you look at the Company going forward, clearly all of us see what's going on in the broader macroeconomic sense and what's going on around the world, but we've really built the Company to be a diversified company that can deliver through the cycles.  

And so we are feeling good about the Company's position in the world we see today. We're confident in the range that we've given you for the third quarter of $0.48 to $0.50 a share, up 12 to 16, and we also fell like we've got a pretty good visibility for Q4 that has earnings per share up 13 to 16%. So we're not going to change the total guidance for the year, but we've got a good sense that, based on the backlogs that we see, based on the way we run the Company, and consistent execution that we feel good about delivering on the commitments we've given you for the second half of the year.  

So just to wrap up the summary from an environment standpoint, we think it's still solid for GE businesses. We haven't seen any declines in order rates and continue to see good momentum. Our financial performance is on plan and consistent with expectations. Our strategic execution, we continue to do what we say we're going to do around the portfolio. The growth initiatives we believe have great momentum when you look at six or eight quarters of two to three times GDP and I think a very good perspective on Q3 and Q4 as we look out in the year.  

So good, solid quarter in 2Q of '06 and we think a very good view for the second half of '06 as we go forward. Dan, let me turn it back over to you.  

DAN JANKI: Great. Thanks, Jeff. Michelle, we'd like to now open it up for questions.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Deane Dray, Goldman Sachs.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A question on the '06 guidance, $1.94 to $2.02. What has to go right for you to achieve the high end of the guidance at this stage of the year? It sounds like NBC is playing out close to expectations, but plastics is a little bit worse. But what would it take to get you back to be upside of that range?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Deane, I would say to be at the high end of the range we would have to see some improvement in plastics. And again, we just want to continue to see the way that the NBCU turnaround takes place through the rest of the year. So I think it's very consistent with what we talked about at EPG in terms of what drives the high end of the range.  

But again, I want to go back to the -- kind of the way I want you to think about the Company is -- the way I want you to think about the Company is real confidence in delivering on what we said we're going to do. And so, I think when you look at the $0.48 to $0.50, the way we described the quarters in the beginning of the year, I think our confidence is very high that these are good numbers and that we can deliver on them.  

DEANE DRAY: Jeff, one of the comments you made at the EPG conference recently was that you felt as though NBC has turned the corner to where it could be a positive contributor to earnings in '07. Is that still a reasonable expectation?  

JEFF IMMELT: Yes.  

DEANE DRAY: Very good. And just last quick question. On pension for '07, is it too early for your modeling expectations where that would be flat? In other words, that $0.04 headwind goes away?  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Deane, again, it is too early because those rates unfortunately aren't finalized until you see what the discount rates are going to be at the end of the year. Those are set actually at the end of December based on bond cash flows estimating our outflows in the pension fund. So a good proxy is the ten-year Double-A bond and if interest rates were frozen today at what they are for the end of the year that should level off. But again, we have to see where those interest rates go and what they look like at December 31st. But if they stayed where they are now that would level off for us.  

DEANE DRAY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Peter Nesvold, Bear Stearns.  

PETER NESVOLD, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I guess first a question on behalf of Ann. What's your outlook on the restructuring actions in the back half of this year and which businesses are you focused on primarily? And are your expectations discounted into the business segment or are they at the corporate item line?  

KEITH SHERIN: Basically when you look at restructuring, for the second half of the year we're going to be focused on things that give us the biggest payback. So we have some things in the industrial segment where we're able to get a good payback. We have some things in the infrastructure segment where we're able to get a good payback. Those would be the two places that you'll probably see that activity going on.  

And we also have the early retirement programs that we run all the time which are pretty much based on wherever our union employees are in the U.S. So it's spread across the industrial and infrastructure principally, and those activities are both in the businesses and a little bit at the corporate segment. Hard to split it up for me today.  

PETER NESVOLD: But has your planning here -- has it accelerated since the beginning of the year?  

KEITH SHERIN: There has been some additional thought about some restructuring. Certainly in the second quarter we did about $45 million, as I said. And as you look at the total year estimate we have here it could be as much as $0.02.  

PETER NESVOLD: Okay. For the full year?  

KEITH SHERIN: For the full year. And again, that's related to the page here I talked about, the corporate benefits and uses.  

PETER NESVOLD: Okay, great. And if I could ask a quick follow-up question. It's a bit granular, but the timing of the Penske sale, the amount of it, it seemed a little -- not intuitive. I mean, a 9% sale, the leasing cycle seems to be pretty strong, it was a little late in the quarter. And what were the drivers behind the timing and the size of that sale?  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, we've been working with obviously John Rice on the industrial segment and taking a look at where are opportunities to redeploy capital out of industrial. Strategically if we can invest in faster growth areas we would and we were approached by Penske who was looking to improve his ownership position in the asset and we came to an agreed solution.  

And if you look at our press release, what we talked about is that ultimately over time we'd like to have that partnership kind of go to 50-50 based on both parties and we'll work to that over time. But really it's an ongoing program when you look at the industrial businesses and everything that John has to look at opportunities to redeploy capital into faster growth areas and we'll continue to do that.  

PETER NESVOLD: Okay, thanks.  

OPERATOR: David Bleustein, UBS.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN, ANALYST, UBS: Keith, you touched on Japan rate caps. What would the impact be if Japan cut its rate cap down to call it 20%?  

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have a specific number on that. I mean, as I said, the business made about $100 million in the quarter. It's got a good ROE. What we would have to look at is the impact today from somewhere in the high 20s down to whatever they put it. And in between here and there we're going have to continue to focus on productivity, we're going have to take costs out, we're going have to do more risk-based pricing. We're looking at other business development activity.  

So there are a lot of options we have as you look forward over time. And as I said, that probably won't impact. I mean, there's a lot of negotiation going on with the government and the financial industry players over there that probably won't happen until the second half of 2007 or early 2008. So the good news is we have a lot of time to look at it, work on it and be able to proactively deal with it.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: What's the current asset base over there?  

KEITH SHERIN: I'll have to get you a number on that, David.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay. And then shifting gears to NBC. What was the total comparable pricing for the current upfront season? You mentioned the total upfront was up half a percent, but what was the -- if you had to use an apples-to-apples pricing number.  

KEITH SHERIN: It's hard to split it. On prime it was down right around 5% I think on the CPMs. And on cable we had places that were up. So overall it was down a little bit, but again, a couple things that helped us there. Number one, we had the NFL. Number two, we had our digital strategy where we pulled a lot of programs in and that helped us to be able to get up slightly on the upfront in total. And number three, we had all the great performance across the cable and other dayparts and late-night. So prime was still a little pressured on CPM. I think we're probably right now at parity with other networks on CPMs and that's good news. As we look going forward we can deliver on our schedule.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay, good. And just one follow-up --  

KEITH SHERIN: Jeff, anything on the --  

JEFF IMMELT: Yes. David, the only thing I was going to add to what Keith just said is we don't need be prime time network to be big-time positive next year for '07 earnings to be up at NBCU, based on what the business model is. And I think what Keith talked to which I think is encouraging is the rest of the -- NBC Universal is performing very well right now and so that gives us good momentum as we look at fourth quarter and '07.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay. Two other little ones. The Nielsen ratings on commercial spots, do you think that's going to have any impact?  

JEFF IMMELT: Too soon to say, but I think it's inevitable. So I think it's kind of the way we've done our own business planning. And it comes back to you've got to have good content and that's what our business model has always been about.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay. And then finally, Keith, the GE and GECS expected tax rates in Q3, should those equal the full-year rates?  

KEITH SHERIN: That's our current forecast, yes.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Thanks a bunch.  

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citigroup.  

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Can we just explore this operating leverage question a little bit in more detail? First, the comment that service and products come into parity, is that something in particular accelerating or decelerating to bring things into balance or is it just kind of now lapping the tough comparisons in the product side?  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, I was talking about infrastructure. If you look in the second quarter, the infrastructure product revenue rates were up close to 20% and the services revenues were up around 8 to 9% in total across the infrastructure. So you know, you've got a 2X factor here on equipment delivery growth versus revenue on services. Now in the second half in infrastructure the equipment deliveries continue at this great pace.  

The difference is that you had good equipment deliveries that make it a little more comparable in the second half of last year. So for us it's not a deceleration of continuing to build the installed base, it's just a different comparison in terms of service and equipment mix, Jeff.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then just on the product side, are you starting to get operating margin leverage in the product piece of the portfolio or are you still working through some tough things out of backlog, etc., that are actually holding back product margins?  

KEITH SHERIN: No, it varies by business. I think if you look at a place like the transportation business you can see what we've done with the new product on the (indiscernible), you can see that in the leverage. I mean, we went out with a new product, we met the fuel specs, we won a tremendous amount of share, but we didn't have the product costs where we needed it to be for ultimate profitability. Now we're going down the learning curve as we deliver those locomotives and you can see the results.  

I think if you look in energy, we're still dealing with some tough comparisons on gas turbines versus units that had a little more margin than we have today. Pricing and energy and gas service in the quarter was down about 3%. And so that creates some margin pressure for us in the energy business. Going forward, pricing on new orders was down about 2%, so that's going to continue to be competitive. On the other hand, you look at wind units, pricing was up 11% and you can see that wind revenue growth.  

So it varies by business I think. You know, we have a companywide focus on it. Certainly all of us are together looking at the top 100 product managers who generate the most margin in the Company. We're looking at our new product introduction process and our margin process and we have a big focus on it.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: And then just an unrelated follow-up. On the consumer -- I mean, the delinquencies look stable. Are there any other little warning signs like smaller average payments or anything like that that shows any early signs of stress out there?  

KEITH SHERIN: We really haven't seen it Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: And we're watching it obviously every day and right now the portfolio quality continues to be just terrific and it's globally consistent.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Robert Cornell, Lehman Brothers.  

ROBERT CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: I do want to follow-up a little bit on the op leverage issue that came up. You guys have been driving the growth strategy and getting the organic growth. You mentioned of course NBCU, plastics and the product mix Keith just mentioned. I was wondering though if in fact you're seeing that it's costing more in the aggregate to grow the Company maybe than you anticipated. You mentioned the R&D spend on GEnx. I mean maybe you could give a little perspective on that in terms of the total cost to get the growth at what are pretty attractive rates.  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Bob, I don't think so. I think as Keith went through it that there really are three specific factors that impacted op profit rates in Q2 which NBCU -- its plastics and there's product and service mix. I think if you look at G&A as a percentage of revenue it was going to be down probably 100 basis points this year. We'll still get probably 4% total cost per productivity for the Company. You know, clearly there's inflationary pressure -- places like plastics fuels it -- that is going to cost us a little bit this year. But I would say that there haven't been any surprises there and I think this gets unwound and becomes a tailwind in the second half of the year.  

ROBERT CORNELL: Okay. Healthcare orders, you mentioned ex China they're up 7 which still seems a little light. Maybe you can give us a little more color around that.  

JEFF IMMELT: If you look at healthcare orders overall total is up 6, equipment was up 4, ex China is up 7. A couple things going on. First of all, pretty broad strength. Ultrasound was up 18, medical diagnostics were up 13, digital x-ray was up 19. [PT] was down about 15% and the problem that we're comparing to is just remember the tremendous growth we had of VCT last year. We had a 29% growth in VCT, but we got tougher comps given that the CT orders were up 50% last year in the first half.  

So we're comparing to some pretty tough orders periods in CT. We're still doing a great job, though. When you look at revenue on CT the sales were up 4%. Sold almost 200 VCT's in the second quarter, up 50% from last year and the backlog is still up 24%. So orders are down but we're going to work off this backlog for a little while and we're staying at the high end there.  

MR was down about 4%. That was pretty much flat ex China and we are just doing a great job with HDMR. The backlog is up 50% and just about every MR that was ordered 1.5 and 3T had HD on it. So overall services orders up 15%; biosciences up 8% so we feel pretty good about it. I think we're doing a tough comparisons on CT and MR a little bit, but we feel good about the technology and the position we have in the backlog. So it's something we're watching but there's pretty broad strength there I'd say, Bob.  

ROBERT CORNELL: One follow-up question. I think I'm hearing that GECS NBCU up in earnings next year given the performance in up front and the outlook for cable and other things. Is that what I'm hearing in terms of operating earnings '07 relative to '06? Is that what I'm hearing?  

JEFF IMMELT: From NBCU, Bob?  

ROBERT CORNELL: Yes.  

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, that's the -- kind of the feedback I gave you at EPG is still the sense on the drives that we've got for NBC Universal going into next year. Again, I think what Keith said; we're committed to the business. And if you look at the pieces, we feel that the up front and the buzz around the primetime is going to allow us to stabilize the network which is really all we really had to do given the other momentum we've got in the rest of NBC Universal. So that's how we're looking at it.  

ROBERT CORNELL: Okay. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Nicole Parent, Credit Suisse.  

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good morning. Not to beat a dead horse on the leverage point, but I guess how should we think about the service by business, particularly in infrastructure ramping, as we look toward the end of the decade and how you think it will impact margins? I guess, given the strength of rail deliveries we'd expect service to continue to be very strong. Energy, you have had portfolio diversification. Can you remind us kind of what we would expect for service on oil and gas and when?  

And then water -- you know, Dave has talked about the service model at water being a little bit different than the traditional infrastructure, but over the next couple of years we should see service get stronger, right?  

KEITH SHERIN: No, I'd stick to the core businesses, Nicole. You look at aviation, look at the installed base we built, you look at the energy business and the installed base we built. You look oil and gas the same way. Those are really high calorie service businesses. I think if you think about transportation, that's also got a terrific service business. The wind business doesn't have as much service with it quite honestly, and the water business is a little different model for us.  

But take those core industrial infrastructure businesses, we've got revenue that's growing faster than the average for the Company, higher margins and lower capital and we expect to book $200 billion of services revenues between now and 2010 at 35 plus percent kind of margins.  

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Nicole, if anything the sense for our service business model has only improved mainly because the installed base is going to be bigger. I think you've got to look at the service business as being close to $30 billion in revenue with close to 30% operating profit which now has because of the installed base great visibility, around 10% topline revenue growth, and then leverage on top of that because of productivity programs and pricing programs and [account service]. So this is only getting better.  

KEITH SHERIN: We tried to show at EPG the service chart and the impact on our margins. And if you look at the going forward we're estimating it somewhere between 50 and 80 basis points a year of operating profit improvement from that services mix that Jeff just talked about.  

JEFF IMMELT: But you know again, just go back on equipment. Not only have we had pretty good markets but we've also gained market share and we've had a great rail product. We've had unbelievable success in aircraft engines. We've had a wind business that's now at a run rate of close to $4 billion. And so we've got great success that is fueling our topline growth all of which is going to lead to a great service strategy as time goes on.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great, that's helpful. With respect to the equipment services business, I just want to double-check. You had net income of 60 and does that include the $90 million Penske gain because --  

JEFF IMMELT: No. That's all in corporate.  

KEITH SHERIN: No. That's in corporate.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay, that's fair enough. And one last question on healthcare. How much was the biosciences? I think you said it was up 7. How should we think about protein separation and drug discovery in the quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at healthcare -- for orders biosciences were up 8, medical diagnostics were up 13 and life sciences was up 1.  

NICOLE PARENT: The revenue numbers?  

KEITH SHERIN: The revenue -- medical diagnostics were up 12.  

NICOLE PARENT: And protein separation?  

KEITH SHERIN: I'll have to get you protein separation (multiple speakers).  

JEFF IMMELT: It was about 2 or 3% I think.  

KEITH SHERIN: About flat?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay, great. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: John Inch, Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Keith, what was GE industrial's organic revenue base or growth rate this quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: 8% -- I think it was 8.  

JOHN INCH: That was 8. And then how was pricing this quarter versus last quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, if you look overall for the Company it was really a minimal impact. We had $28 million overall; in the price index for the Company it's down 1/10 of a point. So a lot of different mix in the businesses. Good, good pricing in industrial. Average pricing in infrastructure. Healthcare pricing was down slightly. (multiple speakers) down less than 2% and usually that's been down about 3%. So that improved actually.  

JOHN INCH: I'm sorry, what improved? I'm just wondering if you had (multiple speakers) products?  

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare pricing.  

JOHN INCH: Healthcare improved?  

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare improved from -- the pricing has been down on average 3% for the last couple years. It was down a little less than 2% in the quarter.  

JOHN INCH: Okay. Any other businesses as you sort of look over the rest of the year where you think pricing may be trending a little bit better either because of your own initiatives or just trends in the marketplace?  

KEITH SHERIN: I just think the service businesses are places where we continue to put a lot of focus, John, on pricing.  

JOHN INCH: Okay, thanks.  

DAN JANKI: Michelle, can we take one last question?  

OPERATOR: Tony Boase, AG Edwards.  

TONY BOASE, ANALYST, AG EDWARDS: Just wanted to clarify the product --  

DAN JANKI: Sorry, Tony, we lost you.  

OPERATOR: Mr. Boase, may you please rekey star one on your telephone? Mr. Boase, your line is open, sir.  

TONY BOASE: Great, thanks.  

KEITH SHERIN: Tony, you want to try again?  

TONY BOASE: Sure. I'll try again here. I just wanted to get a little clarification on the product service mix shift in the second half. Is it due to the fact that you're able to faster translate product sales into service or is it just a timing issue as far as when equipment has come on and now you're going to get better service? Or does it mean that some of the great equipment growth you've experienced slows down a bit in the second half?  

KEITH SHERIN: I try to say that the run rates on equipment actually continue. In the second half if you look, for infrastructure -- I'll give you an example. You know, the infrastructure equipment is about 43% of revenue in the second half and that's pretty much flat with last year and the services are 57% of revenue in the second half.  

So basically what's happening is our equipment, as the orders have grown and growth over the last 18 months the equipment delivery started to ramp up in the second half of last year. And so we end up with continued good volume of equipment going out; but again, it's against comparisons of pretty good volume last year and then the service and equipment mix kind of levels off in the second half which does improve profitability and margins.  

TONY BOASE: And Keith, I'm sorry if I missed it, but did you say what gas turbine sales were in the quarter? Or deliveries?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, we delivered 37 gas turbines in the second quarter.  

TONY BOASE: And are you still on track -- I didn't catch --  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, on the energy page I tried to show in the second half that we're basically on track for what we said. We're going to grow the second half units from last year -- just one second. If you look we had 89 units in the plan this year for the second half versus 66 last year and those are in the backlog. So we feel pretty good about the plan for gas turbines. We've seen some pretty good order activity around the world in gas turbines.  

TONY BOASE: So if I --  

KEITH SHERIN: (multiple speakers) going to do close to 140 units this year. It's pretty good business. I mean, it's very competitive in terms of margins, but again, you're building that installed base and helping to grow the future service business.  

TONY BOASE: And maybe it's a little premature, but how's 2007 perhaps shaping up for gas turbine sales?  

KEITH SHERIN: They should be up slightly. I don't have any final numbers yet, but you look at the economic activity and the bids that we're seeing and the orders we're seeing, one of the drivers is the continued strength in the oil and gas business, they need some gas turbines. So we've got a pretty good business model there and we feel pretty good about the progress commercially around the world.  

JEFF IMMELT: I think investors should feel pretty good about the energy business in terms of getting tailwinds behind us and getting better comparisons as time goes on. I think we're in pretty good shape there. I just -- before we leave I just want to reiterate that even with the notion that I think given all the dynamics that are going on we're counting on plastics being slightly weaker than we thought earlier in the year, but we have great momentum in the rest of the Company.  

And so I think we really are confident in the guidance we've given for the third quarter and for the year and it's why investors should like the Company. It's a strong set of initiatives, it's a good operating team and I think we're very well positioned in the world we're in today.  

TONY BOASE: Great, thanks.  

DAN JANKI: Thank you, Jeff. Thank you all for your time. The information from today's call, both the transcripts and replay, will be available at our website. And JoAnna and I will be available all day to take your calls. Thank you again.  

OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your anticipation today. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060728e27e000dz
  


 HD
 General Electric Q1  2006 Earnings Call - Final  
   WC
12,002 words
   PD
13 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric first-quarter 2006 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Rachel and I will be your coordinator for today's conference call. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the presentation over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Dan Janki, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.  

DAN JANKI, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Rachel, thank you. Joanna and I are pleased to host today's earnings conference call. First of all, we'd like to say welcome and we do understand that today is Passover and tomorrow is Good Friday, so we do apologize for any inconvenience this may have caused you or your family.  

   TD
Hopefully you saw our press release that went out at 6.30 this morning. We will be walking through slides that are available on our website at  www.ge.com/investor  along with some supplemental information. If you don't see it, please hit refresh. You can also download that information and print it to follow along.  

Remember, this is a webcast, so you may need to hit refresh as you go through it. Also, as we always say, today, our presentation does contain forward-looking statements that are based on the world and economic environment as we see it today. That is subject to change. Please view that in your information in light of that.  

Today, we will cover first-quarter earnings, second-quarter outlook and then we'll open it up to questions. To do that, we have our Chairman and CEO, Jeff Immelt and our Senior Vice President and CFO, Keith Sherin. So at this time, I'd like to turn it over to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Dan. Good morning, everyone. We had a strong quarter in a good economy in the first quarter of 2006. The GE business fundamentals remain positive. Our first-quarter orders were up 33% and we saw strength across the portfolio, a very strong performance on orders. Equipment backlog grew 22% as did our CSA backlog. We had very strong asset quality.  

The execution in the first quarter continued to be strong; revenues were up 10%, a little bit better than planned. Industrial operating profit, ex the Olympics and pension, were up 0.5 points. Earnings from continuing operations were up 14% and EPS was up 18%, so very strong performance on those lines.  

Cash generation was very strong, up 132% overall and industrial CFOA at $3.3 billion were up 24%. We accelerated the stock buyback. We bought back $3 billion in the first quarter of '06 and our ROTC, very important metric to us, is up 1.4 points to 17%. So we have kind of seen the turn and are progressing towards our 20% goal.  

The growth initiative is performing very well. Our organic growth was up 9%, better than expectation, and growth platforms were up 22% and service sales were up 10%. So, again, a pretty good set of numbers and a very strong first quarter 2006 from an execution standpoint.  

I think each and every quarter is a proof point in terms of our strategic execution and I think this really gives us some good sense of the Company going forward.  

Some of the big themes that we see going on inside the Company -- the first really winning and global infrastructure business and growing the installed base. Our equipment order rate in the infrastructure businesses 2X the first quarter of 2005. So, again, a very strong momentum that we have in the business right now.  

We have sustained our financial service growth with higher ROE in an increasing interest rate environment. We, again, feel very great about how our commercial finance and consumer finance businesses are positioned and our exit of the insurance business is on track. We build a diversified healthcare business with leading technologies. We are really seeing consistent double-digit performance. Revenues up 10% at an expanding operating profit rate. We feel great about how that business is positioned.  

We continue to focus on industrial execution and expand operating profit rate. We had a very good strong quarter by consumer industrial. It offset slightly weaker performance in plastics as we continue to manage through price and volume trade-offs, but on balance, our industrial businesses are expanding the operating profit rate and we continue to turn around NBC primetime performance, but really have a strong diversified business mix. So we are really executing a strategy that we think is very solid for the long term and should give us good momentum for the Company.  

The next page on the growth initiatives -- just to give you an update on this organic growth initiative that we have launched more than a year ago. From an organic revenue growth standpoint, up 9% in the quarter. Pretty solid performance across the portfolio and, again, we think this bodes well for the future, about 2X our historic rate and a very favorably -- that we think compares with our peers.  

Services was one of the fuels for that organic revenue growth, growing 10%. We received 2.4 billion of new CSA commitments and the backlog is growing and seeing good revenue growth across the board. Our growth platforms were up 22% for the quarter with 8% organic growth. Our global revenues were very strong, op 10% ex FX. China continued to grow with orders up 21% and our orders in Middle East and Africa were up 60%. So it shows some of the importance of globalization. And our imagination breakthroughs, which we use to drive incremental growth, were also doing very well.  

Our healthcare financial vertical had volume of 29%. We continue to expand our digital footprint in the entertainment business and we're seeing strong new MR orders behind a HDMR product line.  

So, again, we have said this was an initiative that we thought was going to help fuel future growth in the Company. We continue to build out that capability and we think this initiative is in great shape. So with that, I'll turn it over to Keith to really talk about the performance of the Company.  

KEITH SHERIN, SVP & CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Jeff. Well, as Jeff said, orders were terrific and if you look at our first-quarter orders of $24 billion, they were up 33% overall. On the left side of this chart, you can see the major equipment orders. We've said in the past that major equipment orders are a little lumpy on a quarterly basis, but we just had tremendous strength in the first quarter. You can see $10.8 billion of orders up 67%.  

By business, as you go down the list, you can see the strength of aviation was up three times over last year in the first quarter. Energy huge, up 60%. Healthcare up 2%, but on an organic basis, up 6% impacted by FX. Oil and gas and transportation both had terrific quarters and the backlog here is very strong at $29 billion, up 22%.  

In the middle, services, you can see the orders were up 20%, $7.5 billion and we have solid activity across the board. Aviation -- energy had a huge quarter with some nuclear fuel reloads, even excluding some of those items, they are up close to 20%. Healthcare, good at service orders, oil and gas and transportation tremendous performance and the CSA backlog is up double digit at $86 billion. So, again, you see the progression there and the strength.  

Finally, on the right side, our average daily order rates, which excludes the impact of foreign exchange or acquisitions or dispositions, are also stronger. You can see in the fourth quarter of '05, we had a flow orders rate of about 3% and we have taken that up in the first quarter to 8%. You can see the strength in C&I. Security, good quarter. Plastics for the quarter was up to -- for the month of March was up 14%. So pretty good economic performance.  

If you look around the world, the U.S. was solid, up 6%. Europe rebounded in the fourth quarter. Europe -- our flow orders were down 12% and in the first quarter, they are up 8% and then in Asia, it was very strong, up 17%. So we had a very strong March, up 11% and just good economic activity across the board and you look at those major equipment and service orders, they really do bode well for the future. So obviously a great orders quarter for the Company from top to bottom.  

On the next page, portfolio quality, this just continues to be a very strong story. On the left side are delinquencies over thirty-day past due for both the consumer finance and the equipment financing businesses. You can see they are flat year-over-year or down and we are seeing stable consumer credit quality in the consumer portfolio. We are seeing the equipment delinquency remain low. I will show you some of the metrics later in the commercial and consumer finance businesses, but non-earning assets are down, write-offs are down and there is quite a bit of detail about this in the supplemental information.  

On the right side, utilization for the equipment services businesses continues at a very high level indicative of the economic activity that is out there. 85% over the portfolio. You can see Penske down a couple of points, but, again, at 92%, it's just a tremendous activity level and rail and trailers were both up in the quarter. So good economic activity and great strength in the balance sheet from GE Capital.  

So next is a summary of the first-quarter consolidated results. Revenues at $37.8 billion, up 10%. You can see we had both strong industrial and financial revenue growth in the quarter. Earnings at $4 billion, up 14%. We get about 1.5 point benefit on the buyback and then EPS at $0.39, up 18%. Cash flow -- we're just off to a great start to the year on cash flow with the total CFOA at $6.7 billion, up over 130% and the industrial cash flow was up over 24%. So a tremendous cash story.  

On the right side, you can see the earnings impact of pension. We had $3.6 billion of earnings last year. We had an increase in earnings from the operations of about 17% and pension is a full $0.01 per share drag on the quarter and it is non-cash, but it is a $0.01 per share drag and that is probably what we're going to see every quarter this year, $0.04 for the year. So that gets you to the $4 billion.  

Then on the bottom right, just to give you an update on tax rates for the quarter, first, our industrial rate ex GECS at 24% was down about two points. It is lower than last year and that is really driven by the increased benefits we had from international activities and the GECS rate at 14% is higher than last year. It is up 4 points and the consolidated rate, when you look at the total Company for taxes year-over-year, is at 18.4% and up 0.4 of a point also. So tax rates were higher in the quarter year-over-year.  

The GECS rate was 4 points higher than last year and that is principally driven because we didn't have a repeat of the benefits from the reorganization of the aircraft leasing business and the last thing I would say about tax rates, just for the full year, these are our current rate estimates for the year that you see in the first quarter. As you know, things can change based on our geographic mix of earnings and other tax planning opportunities and if you want to use a range, we're still very comfortable with the range on the industrial tax rate of 24% to 26%. I would use 13% to 15% for the GECS rate for the year. That doesn't change really how we think about the GECS earnings. That is just the mix of earnings and GECS will come from some additional tax benefits versus what we had originally planned last year at the end of the year.  

Next, I wanted to give you a one-page update on executing insurance strategy. On the left set side of this page, you can see the earnings in EPS numbers and we reported $4 billion, as a just said, at $0.39 a share from continuing operations. We do have a positive in the quarter in discontinued operations and I will show you the pieces of that. That rounds to 0.3 and so then in the bottom, it's total reported net earnings, including continuing and discontinued operations, $4.3 billion and the $0.41 on earnings per share.  

So if you look at the right side, here is the pieces of what happened in discontinued operations. There are really couple of things going on. First, in the beginning of March, we sold the remaining position we had in Genworth and that gave us the $2.5 billion of cash, which helped us in the GE Capital cash flow. We got that special dividend.  

We also had a $300 million gain on the sale of the Genworth shares. So we have completed our exit at Genworth. We now own zero. Last year, if you compare in the first quarter, we still owned 71% of Genworth we had almost a quarter -- a full quarter -- three-quarters of their operations basically. We have zero in that this year in the first quarter.  

The second thing we did was we are actively proceeding with the exit of GE Life and that is a business that we had retained when we did the Genworth IPO. That impact of exiting GE Life has been included in discontinued operations this quarter. The only thing to point out is that, in the supplemental schedules, we gave you the GE Life revenue impact by quarter for 2005 because now that it is in discontinued operations, it will come out of the 2005 base revenue. I think you need to think about that when you look at the 2006 revenue. Going forward, we will lose somewhere around $600 million a quarter of revenue from GE Life.  

It really didn't impact us from a profit perspective and you can see that in the detailed schedules. There isn't a lot of income that went with taking out GE Life. The loss on the exit is around $175 million partially offsetting that Genworth gain.  

And then finally the third thing in the discontinued ops is the results for insurance solutions in the quarter. The insurance solutions team earned about $135 million after-tax and you can see that is also included in the disc ops.  

So the good news I would say is we are very pleased with the progress. We're working cooperatively with Swiss Re and the insurance solutions sales on track for closing in the second quarter and when we get this deal closed, we expect to receive up to $3 billion in cash in the second quarter, down some stock and notes. So we're pleased with the continued progress on executing the insurance strategy.  

Next is cash flow. As I mentioned, we feel great about starting the year up very strong in cash flow. $6.7 billion in the quarter, really driven by both industrial, which in the bar on the left side, you can see our industrial cash flow went from $2.7 billion last year to $3.3 billion this year, up 24%. We had good net income performance and growth and we also had benefits from working capital.  

Then on the GECS dividend at the top of the bar, last year in the first quarter, basically we had the last quarter where we had only a 10% dividend from the retained earnings of GE Capital Services. This year we got a 40% dividend, which is about $900 million and we got the proceeds from the Genworth sale. So total $3.4 billion. We did buy back $3 billion of stock in the quarter, as Jeff mentioned. That is about 88 million shares and in total, year-over-year, we had about 160 million share on average reduction in our share count, which shows you the benefits of the buyback last year and this year.  

Over on the right side is just the cash [walk] starting with the $2 billion. You can see the add from the CFOA on the left side. We paid our dividends of $2.5 billion, $2.6 billion, stock repurchase of $3 billion, a little plant and equipment and we had one acquisition, one major acquisition that closed with the IDX acquisition. It was about $1.4 billion, $1.6 billion balance of debt giving you the March balance of $1.8 billion. So off to a great start on cash and feel very good about the total year being up 10% to 15%. Very solid.  

So next, let me get into the business results. I'm just going to start with a summary of the first quarter and the second quarter and then go into the details for each of the businesses. If you look at the first quarter, what we laid out here is both the performance against revenue and segment profit and then how did we do versus our previous guidance that we gave you.  

On the left side, the revenue, you can see we had just great top-line growth, very solid across the portfolio. Pretty much everyone was in line with our previous estimate. I would say Commercial Finance was a little better than we thought. We did get some benefit from the carryover from the fourth quarter that we talked about. And then NBC Universal, the revenue was a little higher than guidance and that was driven by the Olympics and some of the other strength in the other parts of NBC portfolio.  

On the right side on the segment profit, we had a great quarter. If you look, Commercial Finance and healthcare were slightly above the previous estimates. Industrial, we got a check minus. They are just below our estimate. That is driven by plastics. I'll show you that, but, again, our guidance was around 15 to 20. So 14 --they had a very good quarter and everyone else was on estimate. So broadbased strength. We delivered on the expectations and after the next page, I'll go through the details by business.  

Just to give you a look at the second quarter. As you would expect, we see a similar profile than what we had in the first quarter. You can see the revenue guidance was pretty similar. The only real difference on revenue is if you look down at the bottom NBC Universal, there is no comparable to the Winter Olympics. So you see a flat revenue estimate for NBC and the segment profit guidance is consistent with Q1 across the board.  

And then the box on the right, you can see the total Company metrics. Revenue of $39 billion to $40 billion, up 6% to 9%. Again, you can look at the supplemental schedule and look at the impact of the GE Life to take some of that revenue out, but it would be a very solid quarter and a similar profile, as I said, to the first quarter.  

Earnings, $4.8 to $5 billion, up 10% to 14%, a terrific outlook. And the earnings per share range unchanged, $0.46 to $0.48. So no change to the second-quarter guidance, up 12% to 17% and let me jump into the businesses.  

The first business is infrastructure. Infrastructure had a very solid quarter. You look at revenues up 8, segment profit up 11. If you look down at the bottom left at the key business results, there are just incredible strengths everywhere with the exception of energy. I am going to go through energy in detail on the next page, so I'm not going to cover a lot of it here. But we had -- if you go to the top right -- tremendous quarter here in infrastructure. Orders for the infrastructure segment at $14 billion were up 61%. We are really getting the benefits of our investments in technology and globalization, services. Equipment backlog is up 25%. We had very, very strong revenue growth in this set of businesses.  

I just use a couple of them here. If you look at aviation, the aviation team shipped 424 commercial engines in the quarter. That was 79 more than last year, up 23%. And the service revenues in aviation were up 11%. If you look at transportation, they shipped 219 locomotives in the quarter. That's 66 units more than last year, up 43% and the service revenues were up 20%. So they just have tremendous strength. Oil and gas is similar. Equipment was up 27%, service up 12% and then energy -- the principal driver for energy being down year-over-year was less gas turbines and it is pretty much right in line with what we thought, a little light, but it more than accounts for all the decline in revenue, be it 13 gas turbines less than last year.  

Now when you go to segment profit, you see tremendous leverage in these businesses. I think what I would like to do is just step back and take a look at the business model here and let's use transportation as an example anchored by the locomotives sales. We have stronger equipment deliveries. I've talked about the numbers and that is based on leading technology with the EVO locomotive. We have a growing installed base as we put those locomotives out into the field in record numbers and we have a growing high return service business. So when all the pieces are operating here, you get tremendous financial results and you can see that with the leverage in transportation with revenues up 35 and segment profit up favorable, up more than 100%. The same thing applies to aviation. The same thing applies to oil and gas and that is what Dave and his team, Dave Calhoun and his team, are doing in the infrastructure business. So a tremendous quarter from a profit perspective.  

In addition, the financial services verticals remained strong. They had good volume. They had strong double-digit earnings. They got good earnings quality. In GECAS for example, there are only two aircraft on the ground, but we continue to manage that portfolio very effectively.  

When you look at the second-quarter profit dynamics, we see a similar profile. Overall, the industrial business is up 10% to 15%, continue to have strong equipment deliveries. We will have an improved profiled in energy, which I'll take you through in second and services will continue strong through the quarter.  

Financial services' verticals were estimating up 0 to 5. They have a little tougher comparison in the second quarter, but on track for the full year. So second-quarter outlook for all of infrastructure is up 10% to 15% on segment profit.  

Now I would like to go into more detail on energy. Really two things. First, I would like to explain why we were lower than our previous guidance for the quarter and then I want to show you the profile for the year and why we're confident that John Krenicki and his team are going to be able to achieve double-digit operating profit growth for the year.  

I tried to lay that out on the page. I start on the top left. For the first quarter, we came in below what we were looking for. Really there were three main drivers. First, we had some gas turbine and [aero] unit timing, customer timing that we thought could be a little better. We were a little light on that. Second, we accelerated NPI investment timing. Baglan Bay is our show site for the age technology turbine. We pulled an outage into the first quarter and upgraded that technology. That cost us on revenue and NPI expenses and then we also accelerated some new product investments.  

For coal gasification, certainly the customers are clamoring for us to get that technology in play so that we can deliver on some big orders that are out there. Age technology, I mentioned with Baglan Bay and then the new boiling water reactors. So we accelerated quite a bit of investment in the quarter and then the last piece is hydro. Hydro is improving, but it's a little less than planned and so those are the three drivers when you look at the actual results versus what we are hoping to get to of flat.  

The way to express that financially is down in the bottom table. If you look at the bottom chart, we were lower in the quarter in power generation, which includes the thermal business, the wind and the hydro business. You see that is about down $200 million in the quarter, but that was partially offset by great services' performance, $100 million better. They made over $550 million of op profit in the service business. So very strong and that was up 19% in the quarter.  

At the very bottom, you can see the driver. It is the gas turbine profile. The market is pretty good. We always knew we were going to ship more units during 2006 and the year builds in number of units as you go through the first half to the second half. So the gas turbine impact is really timing. In the first quarter, we shipped 21 units. That's 13 less than last year. Then as you go forward into the second quarter, we are about flat with last year. We're going to be one up is the current estimate and then the second half, we go from delivering 49 units in the first half to 91 units in the second half. So the total year units of 140, up 13, and 90 plus percent of those are all committed, we feel great about the profile.  

When you get into the second quarter, we start to see the benefits financially. You can see that in the second-quarter estimate. The impact for power gen is down less and service continues its strong performance. The service orders were up 37% in the first quarter. So we continue to get the benefits of services and growth will be a little stronger even than what we saw in the first quarter and you get back to profit growth in the second quarter. We're estimating today 5 to 10 and in the second half, you can see it just gets better as both the power gen business improves with both the gas turbine deliveries being higher, plus the wind business, plus hydro and the service business continues its excellent performance.  

So our message is we are on track in energy. We feel great about where this business is in the planning and the dynamics obviously continue to improve throughout the year and we feel like that is in good shape.  

So let me turn to the next business, Commercial Finance. Commercial Finance had another record quarter. You can see the numbers here. They are phenomenal. Revenue is up 8, segment profit at $1.174 billion, up 27%. Asset growth up 4% and you can see the key business results down on the bottom left. Just a tremendous quarter in both capital solutions and real estate. Earnings up 19% in cap solutions and up 42% real estate. The dynamics are pretty strong here. The volume growth that we're seeing across these businesses is great. We see a lot of economic activity. Capital solutions is very strong. Real estate is incredibly strong. In the first quarter we had $4.7 billion of volume with both strong growth in Asia and Europe.  

Corporate Financial services also had good volume, up 20%. So that volume, good core growth and lower losses and a little benefit from acquisitions gave us the nice profit growth in cap solutions. Our real estate had both; a continued portfolio investment, as I said, with strong volume globally and capitalizing on market opportunities with the property sales and some of the carryover that we had from the fourth quarter giving us a real -- just a terrific quarter and finally the portfolio is in great shape.  

The nonearning assets at $1.3 billion here are down $260 million. Delinquencies of 1.3% are down 23 basis points. Write-offs at $93 million, down 22 basis points. So just -- it is the best time from a portfolio perspective here. We expect the outlook to continue. When you roll into the second quarter, view the strength of the portfolio, the global growth and performance from the asset quality giving us a segment profit of about 15%. Real estate will be up about 15 to 20 and cap solutions up about 15 to 20 for the quarter.  

Next business is industrial. If you look, industrial had a very good quarter. Revenue is up 6. Excellent leverage. 14% segment profit. You can see the businesses down in the bottom left. C&I had a great quarter. Op profit up 33%. Plastics had a challenging quarter with a price line [equation]. I'll talk about that more in a minute. Equipment services obviously had a very good quarter. If you look at the segment in total and look at the dynamics, the order rates are really terrific. The appliance order rates were up 16%. Organically plastics was up 2%. You can see volume was up 6% and price was down 4%, but for the month of March, they were up 14%. So we saw a lot of build in economic activity in plastics during the quarter. And overall, just amazing revenue here for these businesses in the quarter.  

The C&I business had tremendous revenue and it is pretty broad-based. If you look, appliances was up 14% in the quarter, industrial was up 11%. (indiscernible) supply was up 13%. Lighting was about flat. So you are seeing some really good economic activity here. Plastics had, as I said, overall volume, very strong up 7% globally and we improved our operating profit in the segment one-half point.  

Now plastics -- we are managing the price line equation. Price was down about 3%. Volume was up about 7% and we have looked at the current dynamics competitively. We think Charlene and the team are doing a good job managing this business. And we are poised for a pretty good second quarter. I'll show you -- from our perspective, we think we're going to be up about 5 to 10 in plastics.  

Appliances continues to drive the strategy to go to the high end and you can see the benefits of that with monogram and profile both up strong double digit and equipment services is going to have a -- had a good quarter and will continue to have a good quarter. So in the second quarter, we see pretty similar dynamics. We're looking for a 15% to 20% improvement in segment profit driven by a little better plastics performance. They have a few less headwinds in the second quarter than they faced in the first quarter and C&I should continue to have a very solid year based on the order rates and the growth we see in their marketplace.  

Next is NBC Universal. On the top left, the reported financials -- the reported financials -- the revenues were up 24% and the segment profit was down 8%, but the winter Olympics in Torino really have a large impact on the reported numbers and so what we tried to do was strip out the Olympics here and show you what was the performance of the business ex the Olympics and that would be -- revenues would have been up only 5 and segment profit would have been up 6. So I'll cover more on the Olympics in a second, but it obviously does have a pretty material impact in the quarter on NBC's results.  

Bottom left are the segment profit dynamics. We tried to give you this framework to show you that the businesses that are impacted by our prime ratings, what percent are they of our segment profit and how did they perform both in the quarter and what do we expect for the year and you can see that the prime network performance stations, which is also impacted by the prime ratings and then the TV production division, they represent about 25% of our segment profit and they were down about 25% in the quarter. The rest of the business and most of the profit, you can see 75% of the profits performed very well and that is highlighted up in the top right in the dynamics.  

You know entertainment cable op profit was up 25%. We continue to get great ratings and performance from our cable channels. USA now is the number one rated entertainment cable network. Bravo and Sci-Fi are doing very well. News cable ratings are up over 25%; both CNBC and MSNBC are improving. We had a very solid film quarter both in terms of the theatrical releases, we had very solid movies and certainly the DVD performance. The film team made $300 million of op profit in the quarter, up 13%. The King Kong release is the most successful Universal release in the first couple of weeks in the history of Universal. 6.5 million DVDs and so that has gone very well and the op profit results I stated also include the benefits we have from the agreement to exit our DreamWorks relationship, which offset the impact of the Olympics in the quarter.  

In the Olympics, performance was what we expected. We had a pretty good primetime viewership. Cable coverage was very strong. It helped a lot to have all the different outlets for the content and the NBCOlympics.com had a very good performance and financially the Olympics had $684 million of revenue. They lost about $70 million in the quarter. For the year, the Olympics is slightly profitable when you include the effect of the contributions that our affiliates give us that come in every quarter. So Olympics performed as expected even though in the quarter it was a loss. That is how we had profiled the year and what we really thought we were going to have.  

In primetime, we're making progress. We have spent a lot of time on development and we feel good about the process, the team and the shows that we have got lined up. Deal or No Deal is doing very well and Earl and The Office are doing very well and we are confident as we enter into the period here where we look at the upfronts about where they are and we continue to make progress in digital media.  

So when we look overall, there is so much of the business that is performing very well and we're down to the one issue of turning around primetime. That will still impact us in the second quarter. The prime and TVPD will be down, but the film and cable and the rest of the enterprise will be strong. Then in the second quarter, we also have two events that are balanced. Last year, we got the benefits from the unwind of the Daihyaku partnerships from the Universal merger. That was a positive and this year, we expect to close a couple of station sales that were announced at the end of March. That will partially offset the benefits from Daihyaku last year. So right now, we're calling that with the business profile that we see, segment profit will be about down 10 in the second quarter and overall on track for the year, about flat.  

And finally the final two businesses here on this page. Healthcare just had a great quarter. If you look at revenues up 10%, very strong globally, great leverage. Segment profit up 21%. Operating profit was up 1.2 points and really great performance here. Organic revenue growth up 9%. If you look at the pieces of that, CT was tremendous, up 31%, x-ray was up 17%, ultrasound up 22%. We continue to do very well with the VCT. We sold 151 T. VCT -- [60.32] slice units in the quarter, but we took orders for 185 units. So we got 300 in backlog. It is up 16% from the end of the year and those revenue rates led to some excellent op profit performance and it is pretty broadly spread. The technology business, equipment and services up 18%. Biosciences and the clinical systems business were up 30%. Healthcare services alone up 15% in op profit. So very strong broad-based profit growth across the revenue streams there and the IDX acquisition and the integration is off to a great start. So we see the strength continuing. When you look at the second quarter and we look forward to segment profit up 15% to 20%.  

On the right side, Consumer Finance had a very good quarter. If you look at the revenues and the segment profit, revenue up 9%, segment profit up 14%, assets up 6%. And this business was impacted by the stronger dollar. Ex FX, the assets were actually up 13%. The strong core growth -- organic growth was up about 10%. So a good performance across this business and if you look, it is pretty broadly based. America has had a very strong quarter. Europe was up, Australia was up. Asia overall was about flat driven by Japan, but overall strong just great core growth.  

We are getting some benefit from the acquisitions that we made and the partnerships around the world and the second-quarter outlook looks like more of the same. Segment profit will be up about 15%, strong global growth and great asset quality. So that covers the six businesses and let me turn it back to Jeff to wrap it up.  

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Keith. Just to recap, it is a strong first quarter and 2006 for GE. Revenues were up 10%. Orders were up 33%, which is phenomenal for us and it really gives us a great sense going forward. Organic growth is above our internal target at 9%. EPS was $0.39 a share, up 18% despite the headwind of pension, which was almost $0.01 -- a little bit more than $0.01. So great EPS growth and cash a boomer at -- up -- more than double and strong industrial cash flow as well.  

I think more importantly, we are really executing on Company strategy. The global infrastructure business led by Dave Calhoun is only going to get stronger as we keep going forward. Great backlog, great service momentum. Financial Services with Mike Neal and Dave Nissen continue to execute in this environment and we think that will continue going forward in the future.  

We really are driving consistent growth in our diversified healthcare business, strong product line, good execution. We think we will get great consistent performance out of that business. Improving -- John Rice and his team improving the industrial operating profit rate, really working to drive great results there and we think that will continue to build strength during the year and improvements in NBC Universal, as Keith said. Most of the portfolio operating very well and just continuing to focus on the primetime lineup.  

So I think if you think about the big drivers of the business, we have got a lot of momentum inside the Company and I think great strength going forward.  

Lastly on capital management, the Company will do more than $10 billion of free cash flow for the year. We are on track for the buyback with $3 billion in the first quarter and a commitment to do $7 to $9 billion for the year. The ROTC is expanding and we think that really portends to great things as we look forward in the future. So a very strong quarter. We are reconfirming total year guidance up 13% to 17% on an earnings per share basis. We think the Company has got very good momentum in terms of the initiatives and the business themes. With that, Dan, I'll turn it back over to you for questions.  

DAN JANKI: Great. Thank you, Jeff and Keith. We would like to open it up now to questions, Rachel.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Bob Cornell, Lehman Brothers.  

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, everybody. I am impressed with the organic growth numbers in the quarter, the 9%. I think you mentioned you had a 10% number a year ago. First of all, did we have a straight up days comparison this quarter versus a year ago?  

KEITH SHERIN: I am happy to say yes, Bob.  

BOB CORNELL: It looks like the quarter accelerated as it went through. Maybe you could just flesh out a little bit why March was strong a little bit?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, if you look --  

BOB CORNELL: Geographically, I think you said Europe came back.  

KEITH SHERIN: I think Europe was one of the big drivers. Again, the flow was the thing that you saw progress through the quarter, but major equipment has been strong all quarter long and services was strong all quarter long. So really the only thing we saw -- we did see a pickup in flow at the end of March, in all of March. That was primarily plastics. The rest of the business has been strong all quarter long.  

BOB CORNELL: Has that strength continued? It's early in April, but is it fair to say that is something you see as being continued here?  

KEITH SHERIN: The economic activity is pretty good, Bob. I would say that our forecasts for the second quarter are similar to what you saw in the first quarter in terms of services. Double-digit services, 5 to 10 on the flow and major equipment is going to be lumpy. We will have to see what that is in total, but the economic activity is pretty good. You can see that in the volume in the financial services. You can see it in the consumer activity with low delinquencies. You can see it in the order rates in plastics, appliances, industrial. So we feel pretty good about the economic activity. Maybe you want to comment, Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: No. I think, Bob, in the segments we continue to see good strength. I think having service orders up 20% is very positive for us because you know how important that is to margin and profit rates and it also is pretty indicative of customer usage of the products. So I think seeing that order rate very strong and seeing the order rate very strong in energy in terms of services as well, I think is very positive for us going forward.  

BOB CORNELL: How about when it might be time to look at the guidance with regard to the range, still 13 to 17. I understand it is April, but it sounds like things are pretty good. When might we be able to point to something off just that broad range?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Bob, it is early in the year and that is why we do a range. So again, we just want to see how things continue to progress, but 13 and 17 is a good range and we're off to a good start with earnings per share up 18% in the first quarter.  

OPERATOR: Jeff Sprague, Citigroup.  

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a couple questions around energy. First, the 60% equipment order growth there, what type of product is that for? Is that a resurgence in gas turbine orders, is it wind, is it something else? A little color there.  

JEFF IMMELT: Sure. Gas turbines, the quantity in the quarter was pretty good economic level. We had about 34 orders in the quarter. That is about flat in terms of the number of units with last year, and pricing was up about 3%. So we're seeing pretty good order activity there. The main driver in the delta year-over-year was wind. Wind had 1.5 billion of orders. It is up 1.3 billion, and again pricing on wind was up about 4%, so in terms of the 60%. But we had good orders across oil and gas also. We had good orders in the rest of that business, and services especially. So pretty good. We feel pretty good about this, especially the gas turbine order activity levels giving us a good indication of the future on that business.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: So I guess just to extend that thought, I mean you showed the power gen profit walk a little bit over the course of the quarter, or the course of the quarters, but with price picking up is there maybe some upside in power gen margins when we look out a year or two? Are we fleshing out kind of the really tough stuff in the backlog and have a better look into '07 and '08 in that business now?  

JEFF IMMELT: Sure. I mean, I think if you look at turning and improving price on gas turbine orders we're taking today, between 12 and 18 months you start to see that flow through the backlog. You know, we have seen some other indications from others in the marketplace that that has strengthened and improved also. So I think that is a positive indicator, and you're certainly going to see it in wind. You're going to see improvements in profitability in wind as you go through the year and you're going to see it in hydro.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then just one final on IGCC, I forget, Jeff, if it was you or Keith that made a comment there, but I know there is some stuff in the near-term with American Electric Power waiting on regulators and such. Is there something that should happen in the very near-term in that business to advance another step forward?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I think just broadly speaking about energy, I think this is -- we feel pretty bullish about energy going forward, just given the global demand across the product line, the way the service business is going and the way the team is executing. So I feel like there is a good momentum there. I think on the NPI front, the decisions we made to accelerate a little funding in IGC and some of the nuclear business as well, I think really portends the fact that there is a lot of interest in customers. And it is our expectation that we get some really solid orders for that technology in the second half of the year, and I think it is pretty exciting actually what that looks like going into the future.  

OPERATOR: Scott Davis, Morgan Stanley.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everybody. I wanted just to dig in a little bit with NBC because from my model at least, it was NBC and power gen were the two big misses. The table -- the slide is a little bit confusing. Am I to understand then that pretty much the entire loss in the quarter or delta in the quarter between what we were expecting was probably the loss from Olympics?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, I don't know what we guided that NBC Universal would be down 10, and it is down 8. So this is pretty consistent with what we thought and the way we modeled it out, Scott.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, so maybe we modeled it wrong.  

KEITH SHERIN: I don't know. That is the guidance we gave out in January, and the team delivered on that for us.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. I guess my question then would be, it says here the Olympics performed as expected. Did the Olympics actually lose money and you were expecting that, or were the Olympics flattish?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, the Olympics in the quarter that you reported actually lost about $70 million. We have given you in the supplemental schedules kind of revenue and earnings for the Olympics, and on a year-over-year basis it is a little worse than that. And what happens is we flow the revenue when we show the Olympics and we record the ads, and then we get -- so that is how we had a $70 million loss in the quarter. But we get contributions from our affiliates to help us pay for the Olympics that are nonrefundable. They happen every quarter. And for the year, the Olympics will be slightly positive on a profit basis, and overall the Olympics are a very positive and profitable franchise. But in the quarter, it is a loss of about $70 million in the quarter.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Fair enough. And then in power gen, just trying to get an understanding, I understand that certainly profitability quarter from here should improve. Is there any way you can translate that into a margin expectation and a certain -- give us a little bit of a guidance then on what we should expect going forward maybe quarter by quarter as far as improvement in margins?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, if you take our guidance that we have given you, we have actually reported energy quarter by quarter for 2005, and then you look at on the page 13 where we did energy on track for the year, and you do the op profit guidance by quarter of up 5 to 10 in the quarter and then the second half up 25 to 30, you should be able to model what that impact will be on your margin rates.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Fair enough. Okay. And then just lastly quickly, how much of that is just wind contracts becoming more profitable with the new contracts kicking in versus the old ones running off?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, wind will be several hundred million dollars more profitable in 2006 than 2005 in total, and you see the volume really picks up through the year. So it will be a good contributor to the energy growth. We had in the quarter about 400 units versus about 280 units last year. Revenue was only up about $160 million in the quarter and they did make money in the quarter. They are above breakeven, which is on track for the year that we're looking for here for wind.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Very helpful. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Deane Dray, Goldman Sachs.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: A quick follow-up on energy and then a question on Consumer Finance. On the energy, just to be clear, there was no change in the guidance on deliveries for the year and no terminations, but is there any risk that you have customers pushing out deliveries further?  

JEFF IMMELT: Well we -- when you look at it, we have, as we said, we have about 140 units in the year. Over 90% of them are committed. This is our estimate from the team today, what we think we're going to deliver working with our commercial base. So it is our estimate today. We think this is going to happen the way we have laid it out here and, as I said, the market is pretty good. So there are no terminations really forecast. As you know, we had about $50 million of terminations last year in the first order. That did not repeat and that was part of the year-over-year change in the business, but we do not have any really modeled in for the year.  

DEANE DRAY: Great. And then just to switch over to Consumer Finance, it looks as though you weathered that whole change in the bankruptcy laws without any blip there. Could you comment on that and then if you look out the next couple of years on the Consumer Finance side, it looks like you're going to be getting a higher contribution of growth outside the U.S. and might there be any change in the risk profile of some of the business that you're taking on there and how do you expect that to be managed?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, first, really we saw what the whole industry saw from a bankruptcy law change perspective. As you know, there was a real spike in bankruptcy filings in the fourth quarter ahead of that law change. The bankruptcy filings subsequent to that have gone down to significantly lower levels and that's continued into the first quarter. The way that manifests itself is we had the write-offs associated with the bankruptcy. You end up with lower delinquencies and the quality of the portfolio is in better shape. So we really didn't have any blip other than what we saw last year in the fourth quarter. Really in the first quarter, we've continued to see very low filings and very consistent with what the industry has seen I would say.  

In terms of the profit growth, about three-quarters of our profitability for the Consumer Finance business is outside the U.S. We are obviously very experienced there. We don't really see any change in the risk profile of the business. We have got broad diversification of the portfolio. We have got -- from a size of an individual exposure to any individual person who borrows from us, it is very small. We have got great diversification geographically and the business models that we're pursuing are things that we have proven that we can do in many countries and then Dave Nissen and his team, as you know, spread them around to other countries where we get a little platform.  

So I think we have got a tremendous risk management team in place for the consumer franchise and we feel good about the growth prospects globally. We're such a small part of the global consumer finance marketplace that we feel pretty good about the opportunities that Dave has globally. Jeff, I don't know if you'd like to add something on --.  

JEFF IMMELT: No, I would just echo what Keith said. I think this is pretty consistent with the strategy we've been executing and we don't see any specific change to that. Going back to the first part of your question on energy, I think the team sees a fair amount of activity across the product line, but even in gas turbines, primarily outside of the United States.  

OPERATOR: Robert McCarthy, CIBC World Markets.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Just want to go back to Bob's question just in terms of the guidance for the year. It looks like there has been some nice pickup in orders and granted they are more of a long cycle nature, but what do you think could drive you to the lower end of your stated range now for 2006?  

KEITH SHERIN: I'm sorry, Rob. What could drive to the lower end?  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Yes.  

KEITH SHERIN: Again, I just think any change in economic activity that we don't necessarily see right now. I think we always watch kind of what happens, vis-àvis NBC, in terms of ratings upfront, things like that. I think the price inflation environment seems to be in check for right now, but that is always something that we look at and I think it is still early in the year. So I would say that there is always a little bit more volatility around NBC and plastics, vis-àvis short-term economic changes that we look at, but I think when you look at businesses like infrastructure, healthcare, consumer and commercial finance, we feel very strongly about those businesses not just throughout 2006 but into 2007 and beyond. And then I think it is some of the more volatile business like plastics and NBC that can be the swing.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Right. And then I guess the implication would be that you're building very strong momentum actually going into '07 if you think about it.  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, 33% orders are pretty good. I think when you look at -- again, I think when you look at 33% orders, 10% revenue, 9% organic growth, strength across the Company, I don't know, there may be a few puts and takes, but it is not bad.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Right. And then just to your point on plastics. It sounds like volumes have begun to pick up most recently in March and it sounds like I guess in the fourth quarter of this past year is really a game of kind of holding away from volume to get price and then it looks like you started to sacrifice some price to get some volume. I mean prospectively forward, how do you look at the dynamics for plastics for the back half of the year to the extent you can?  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, Rob, what I would say is that I think we came into the year with a projection on plastics of it being up about 20. I think what I am counting on now is having plastics probably flat to up 10, something like that, but I think that is going to be more than offset by other parts of the portfolio that are going to do better; businesses like rail, energy in the second half, things like that.  

So I think plastics is going to have a challenging year, but not an ultra tough year. In other words, volume is still pretty good. Pricing is still relatively -- I think pricing kind of more or less offsets [benzing] today. I think where the business took some nicks in the first quarter were in things like natural gas and some of the other costs let's say around the business. So I think it's going to have a decent year, probably not as good as what we thought in December, but we're going to offset that in the balance of the Company.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Okay. And then on commercial construction in the U.S., there has been a lot of commentary that there should be acceleration of the back half of the year. Across the businesses, what are you seeing there in terms of any kind of prospective uptick in nonresidential or commercial construction?  

KEITH SHERIN: When I looked at the orders and revenue in the industrial part of Consumer and Industrial and even GE supply, extremely strong orders and extremely strong revenue for those businesses. Double digits, which in those businesses, is rare.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Okay. And then finally just on Europe, any further complexion there? Where you're seeing the strength, where you're starting to see the rebound, any particular regions, countries, etc.?  

KEITH SHERIN: On the plastics side, again, I think it was just general economic growth. I can't give you really a country by country view because again a lot of what we do in Europe tends to be in the infrastructure business, which is driven by other factors.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Understood. Thank you for your time.  

OPERATOR: Peter Nesvold, Bear Stearns.  

PETER NESVOLD, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I guess a question on NBC as a follow-up to the question earlier. It seems like it is a lot of work to make a relatively small amount of money in the broadcasting area. In the past, you've said that there are a lot of synergies between having the broadcast rights and some of the infrastructure contracts. Now that we have gotten through the Olympics, can you quantify how did the Olympics benefit the infrastructure business?  

JEFF IMMELT: I would say, Peter, we got about $60 million of business in Torino, but the big magilla here is Beijing. Beijing, we have got a funnel of about $1.2 billion. I expect us to get maybe $800 million to $1 billion out of that. So look -- I still like the Olympics. I think Torino was a tough venue, a tough set of dynamics. To Keith's point earlier, still when you look at Torino all in, it is probably breakeven to positive. I think Beijing is going to be a whole other story. Beijing is not only from a network standpoint in terms of viewership interest, but also from an infrastructure standpoint. I think it is going to be highly beneficial for both NBC and the rest the Company.  

DAN JANKI: And we have a follow-up question on the industrial side.  

ANN DUIGNAN, ANALYST: Hi. It's Ann Duignan. I spent the last couple of days with your wind and solar teams at the renewable energy show and my assessment is that both those businesses are significantly supply constrained. Can you talk a little bit about the outlook for both in terms of what the potential might be for those businesses if there were no supply constraints? And then what are the teams doing to dissipate the impact of some of the supply constraints that are out there? Then finally would you ever consider spinning off either solar or wind assets given the valuations that are out there for pure play when you build businesses right now?  

JEFF IMMELT: Well, what I would say is that there is lots of demand. I think you have to almost put wind and solar into different buckets. I think on the wind side, the run rate this year is going to be somewhere between $3.5 billion to $4 billion. I don't know -- how many units is that, Keith?  

KEITH SHERIN: We have about 2000 units in the plan versus about 1500 last year and we are sold out as Ann said. The market is very strong. There's a lot of demand globally for this capacity.  

JEFF IMMELT: And we have got all the same teams that worked on the gas turbine bubble back in the late '90s working on this. So again we feel like we have got all the right capability to continue to grow the supply chain of wind. Solar is a little bit of a different story. Our play in solar is a smaller business. It is more materials, specialty materials driven. We will continue to debottleneck some of that, but it is on a smaller scale than the wind business.  

In our view, it is all about the customer. We have common customers between particularly wind and our base business and we think having a renewable portfolio makes us more effective, vis-àvis our customer base, and we want to keep that going.  

I'll tell you another business we don't talk much about is our Jenbacher business that we acquired in the 2002 time frame. It does diesel and things like that and that business has almost tripled in size since we have had it. We are a big energy player. We think we're going to ultimately be the winner or a winner in wind and we think we can leverage [each] capability to do it.  

ANN DUIGNAN: I guess I can appreciate the wind side. The solar side doesn't seem to me to be quite so strategic in terms of synergies with your other energy businesses.  

JEFF IMMELT: I think, again, it is still early days for us in solar. So we will continue to work on the business.  

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg, Foresight.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, FORESIGHT: First of all, on energy, you mentioned some acceleration in -- well, there are a number of let's call it takes in terms of numbers. If we could put into buckets and dollars, how much the positive impact would have been timing, how much would have been acceleration of new product, how much would have been hydro so we can discuss that and then a second question.  

JEFF IMMELT: Sure. I will give you a rough estimate. I would say on the timing of units versus what we were looking to get is probably about $25 million impact. On the NPI and investment timing, including Baglan Bay, is about 75 million.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: And that would have started from Q2 into 1Q or maybe throughout the year?  

JEFF IMMELT: Later in the year. And then it is probably another 25 from what we wanted to get to hydro. Those are rough estimates of about what we saw.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay. Good. The other thing is on the (indiscernible) for the full year, you got services up $500 million, power gen down $100 million for the year and you cited height -- I'm sorry -- wind as having profits being up several hundred million dollars. Unless I am misreading that, that suggests that for the full year, energy ex wind, ex services would be down significantly more than $100 million. If you can comment on that.  

And then one last part, if we could talk about Commercial Finance after. Where there any gains in the results in this quarter and maybe compare that to year-over-year?  

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at energy -- again, wind is a part of the profit growth, but it is not all the profit growth. The services is a huge part of the profit growth in energy and just stripping out wind, we'd still have some profit growth as the service business continues to offset the structural changes in the thermal business.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Oh, that's clear. Services up $500 million, power gen overall down $100 million, but it looks if I took that power gen, split it and I'm going to make this number of, if wind was up $300 million or $400 million --  

KEITH SHERIN: It's not that much.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Pardon?  

KEITH SHERIN: It's not that much.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Not that much. Okay. So maybe a couple hundred million --.  

KEITH SHERIN: Right.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay. And then on the Commercial Finance side, were there any gains in the quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: The only thing we had -- we sold some of our SCS shares in the quarter. That was -- the number that we have as far as the profit from that was about 70 million after-tax, but again if you go back to last year in the first quarter, we sold our remaining stake in Shinsei, which was 63 million after-tax. So on a year-over-year basis, there wasn't anything that was really a one big item that stuck out.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Finally on healthcare, if you could just give us the year-to-year sales of profit, break it down by diagnostic imaging versus the biosciences versus services and IT? We've got a couple of pieces of data points here like revenues on diagnostics and profits on bio, but if you could give us a bit more of a full picture on each of those pieces.  

KEITH SHERIN: I gave you the op profit performance. The technology business was up 18.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Being diagnostic imaging?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. Healthcare services was up 15 and the biosciences and clinical systems were up 30 on op profit.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: The year-on-year profits on the diagnostic imaging?  

KEITH SHERIN: That's the technology, Brian. It's up 18. So that's up 18.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay. That's perfect. That's the -- got it. Okay. Thank you.  

DAN JANKI: Rachel, we have time for one more question.  

OPERATOR: Nigel Coe, Deutsche Bank.  

NIGEL COE, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I just had a question, Keith, on the GE Capital tax rate. I think you said it'd be in the range of 13% to 15% this year. That is a bit lower than your previous guidance and I just wonder what has changed since 4Q? And does this now mean that GE Cap is more likely to meet the top end of its estimates?  

KEITH SHERIN: I guess really two things on the capital tax rate I'd say. Number one is when we gave out the previous guidance, we had completed our budget process at the top level and during the first quarter, we do a detailed operating plan, which is by business, by geography, bottoms up globally. We understand the global mix of international earnings and the transaction opportunities. So I think the detailed planning has led to a better estimate. At the end of the day, what it means is we have more international earnings, lower tax, non-U.S. jurisdictions in GE Capital and when I look at how we plan GE Capital, what we do with Mike and with Dave Nissen and the teams is we work on net income. And today what I'd say is we have a detailed operating plan that -- the mix of net income will have a little slightly lower tax rate than what we gave you before, but in total, we still expect their businesses to be on track with what we gave you as guidance for the year.  

NIGEL COE: Thanks a lot.  

JEFF IMMELT: Nigel, I would add to that and just say it would be my expectation for the year that the industrial earnings grow equal to or faster than the financial service earnings for the year.  

NIGEL COE: Very helpful. Thanks.  

DAN JANKI: Great. Thank you, everybody. JoAnn and I will be around all day to answer questions and also there will be a transcript out next week on the call and a replay of the webcast later on this afternoon. Thank you again.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060427e24d0002t
  


 HD
 General Electric Q4  2005 Earnings Call - Final  
   WC
10,300 words
   PD
20 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the General Electric fourth-quarter earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Rachel, and I will be your conference coordinator today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) As a reminder, ladies and gentlemen, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's call, Mr. Bill Cary, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.  

BILL CARY, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks very much and welcome, everybody. JoAnna and I are very pleased to host this call this morning to go through the fourth-quarter and total-year 2005 results. Please remember that this is a webcast, so you need to refresh your browser to see the materials that we will go through this morning.  

   TD
Hopefully you have the press release that we released about 6:30; and as I said all the slides from today's call will be available at our website at GE.com/investor, along with some supplemental data. If you don't see the slides out there, just go to the site and refresh your browser. You should be able to see it. You can, of course, download and print and hopefully follow along.  

Also as always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Of course that world can change, and as the world changes our view can change. We'd ask you to interpret our comments in that light.  

On the call this morning we're going to cover the fourth quarter of 2005 as well as our total-year performance, as I said. We will give you an outlook for the first quarter of '06 and allow time at the end of the call for your questions. To cover all that of course and as usual, we have got Jeff Immelt, our Chairman and CEO, and Keith Sherin, our Senior Vice President and CFO, with us here this morning. And with that I will kick it over to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Great, Bill, good morning. Just on the overview page, we still see good fundamentals and positive momentum as we leave the year. Total-year orders were up 10%, solid growth really across the board. Equipment backlog is at 24 billion. We had a good quarter and good year in services, so that backlog continues to grow. Our financing volume was up 17%, and portfolio quality remains strong.  

From a growth standpoint, organic growth was up 8% for the year and the quarter. Earnings from continuing operations were, as we reported, at 18.3 billion up 12%. Good strength across the board.  

Cash continues to be a particularly good story at 21.6 billion, and very strong both in terms of industrial CFOA as well as financial services dividend. That allowed us to accelerate the stock buyback to $5 billion for the year.  

Our initiatives continue to perform well and have good momentum as we end the year. And I think importantly, we have completed the critical phase of the insurance portfolio repositioning, both from a Genworth standpoint and also the announcement of the Insurance Solutions disposition. So as expected, $1.72 from continuing operations, up 10% for the year.  

If you look just at the global environment, I figured I would take a little bit of time just to talk through what we are seeing. The US market continues to be strong and in line with expectations. With increasing inflation, we continue to manage the price inflation volume trade-off that impacts businesses like our industrial and plastics business.  

In financial services, we saw good volume, we see good asset quality. And liquidity is both a positive and a negative, as we look at competing for assets.  

Asia continues to be very strong, with Japan improving. China is very strong across the Company. We passed $5 billion in 2005. Europe, from a short-cycle standpoint, particularly in plastics we saw softer volume; but Europe is very strong elsewhere, in terms of healthcare and some of the infrastructure projects.  

From a financial service standpoint kind of mixed. Eastern Europe very strong; and some of the more developed countries slower growth in financial services but stable asset quality. Developing markets continue to be very positive across the board.  

If you look at the fourth-quarter infrastructure, very strong growth. Healthcare very strong growth. Good industrial margin rate expansion. Slower plastics volume, particularly in Europe. From financial services, again, strong volume on both consumer and commercial. Good ROE, impacted a little bit by currency, and had fewer asset sales in the quarter.  

If you looked at it from a revenue standpoint, we had 5% revenue growth if you exclude the FAS 133 impact and the sale of the Genpact business in the fourth quarter last year. FX was about a point; and when you factor in asset sales and some of the other elements, we had 8% organic growth for the quarter.  

If you look at the key customer wins on the next page, again, pretty broadly dispersed customer wins across the businesses. Infrastructure really is a global story. We had great airline wins as we ended the year. Very strong rail wins in China and good momentum there.  

Healthcare is really a product story if you look at us expanding our product line, both in core DI, in diagnostic pharmaceuticals, and in IT. Commercial Finance, broad growth, really on most of the asset classes. Consumer Finance, very strong particularly on a global basis.  

The industrial businesses continue to focus on high-end market share and high-end products like the GE Profile product line. NBC continues to drive content. We saw some good progress from a comedy standpoint and currently have a number of good movies out on the air. So some very good customer wins.  

From a growth standpoint, we talked about the total year being 8% organic growth and same for the quarter. Pretty high visibility on the revenue side. Product service sales 9% for the year and double-digits in the quarter. Growth platform revenues were up 20%, 8% organically.  

Global revenues continue to be very strong. Really, good global revenues in every region on the world. Imagination Breakthroughs continue to drive incremental growth. We just gave a couple examples here.  

Our entertainment financial vertical had an incremental $100 million of assets. Portable ultrasound, 18 times the growth we saw in 2004. And the country-to-company approach in Qatar really driving good growth. So again, the initiatives and the momentum look strong for 2005 and into 2006. With that, I will turn it over to Keith.  

KEITH SHERIN, SVP FINANCE AND CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to start with orders. Total-year orders of 76.5 billion were up 10%. Here are the breakdowns that we usually talk to you about. On a left side is major equipment. You can see these orders are lumpy on a quarterly basis. I think you should focus on the total year up 19%.  

But even in the quarter, if you look at aviation they had a great quarter, up 98%. An example of lumpiness, energy is listed as up 5; if you adjust for last year in the fourth quarter, when the production tax credits were passed and we had big wind orders, adjusting for that the energy orders were up 95%. So they had a really good quarter across the board in the other product line.  

Oil and gas had some large LNG orders last year; but total year up 16%. Transportation had multi-year delivery orders last year; I mean, you can see the backlog in transportation is up 23%. We have over 1,800 locomotives in the backlog, so a couple years of production. Most of those are EVO locomotives.  

So overall 6.9 million rolling four-quarter average, and over $7 billion, almost $8 billion in the quarter. So you're going to see that rolling average continue to grow.  

In the middle are services. They continued very strong. Total services up 12%, 11% for the year. You can see the aviation spares remain strong. Healthcare backlog is up, as energy. Both nuclear and [Arrow] had good service quarters, up 16% in total.  

Large order timing and transportation, oil and gas, for some of the orders last year in the fourth quarter with services; but overall up 12%. So a terrific performance and continued to drive high-margin growth for us.  

On the right side are the flow orders. We continue to see single-digit growth. This is similar to what we saw through the first three quarters. Again, in the fourth quarter prices were strong. Industrial systems were good. Security very strong.  

Plastics you see that we were down in total. We really were working the price-volume trade-offs. We had nice order rates in the US, up 5. Asia was up 11. We made some volume trade-offs in Europe, and I will show you that later when I get to the plastics page. So overall total flow up 3% and consistent with what we were seeing up through three quarters year-to-date.  

In the quarter, $21.5 billion of orders, up about 6%. A solid performance across the Company.  

Next page is portfolio quality. The portfolio continues to be in great shape. On the left side are delinquencies greater than 30 days past due. You can see our consumer delinquencies have turned from 5.23% down to 5.08 from third to fourth quarter. We are seeing a stabilization in the UK secured market, and that is great news. Overall if you look at commercial delinquency levels, they are at a great low level.  

We ended the quarter with no aircraft on the ground. So a terrific performance in the aviation leasing business.  

On the utilization side, utilization remains at high levels, 87%. You can see Penske, railcar, trailers are all up and the high utilization rates. That continues. The outlook for utilization is good. We expect utilization to be flat to slightly up when you look at Q1. So the portfolio is in very strong shape.  

Before I cover the fourth-quarter income statement, I want to highlight the performance of our businesses in the fourth quarter, and this chart does that. You can see that on the left side the fourth-quarter operating results and the great performances. I'm going to take you through the details of those businesses in a few charts.  

But clearly, we had a great performance across the portfolio. Infrastructure up 16% in profit; industrial up 25; commercial finance up 18; consumer up 21; healthcare up 16; and NBC Universal down 7. So the total segment profit for the businesses, and that is the run rate we are seeing and the kind of momentum we have, was up 15.  

Then over on the right side, I will start with the 15% from the businesses results that we said on the left side; so that is the left column bar. Then I'm going to reduce it for the corporate items that we have to compare to in the quarter.  

The first box is really driven by two nonrepeating items. We have the FAS 133 correction that added about $250 million of earnings into the fourth quarter last year. That obviously is not repeating this year in the fourth quarter, so we are comparing that. We also had dispositions last year in the fourth quarter that did not continue, did not repeat. Principally the sale of at the time Gecis, and now Genpact.  

Those two items, those dispositions not repeating and the FAS 133 correction not repeating, account for about 10 points of V in the quarter. We also had some higher non-cash pension in the quarter. Pension was about $100 million swing. And we had a higher industrial tax rate in the quarter. It was up about 2 points, which is the primary driver for the other box. So that gets you down to the 1% for the quarter.  

So when you look at this page, I want to just reinforce we had strong business segment results, up 15%; the consolidated results at $0.55 were in line with guidance. And really importantly, this last quarter where the business results were impacted by the insurance dynamics. What I mean by that is in the fourth quarter of '04, Insurance Solutions lost over $200 million after-tax. But that loss, which -- and if we were comparing to it, it would be favorable this year -- was moved into discontinued operations.  

So really if you look at the dynamics here in the quarter, Insurance Solutions and FAS 133 correction caused this dynamic. Just adjusting for the nonrepeating items, the comparable earnings from the businesses were up double-digit, up over 11%.  

Now let me turn to the income statement. Revenues at 40.7 billion, up 3% as Jeff mentioned. Adjusting for the FAS 133 item that we talked about, FX, and the number of days in the quarter, it is up over 8% organic growth. I will show you that later in some of the businesses' results.  

Industrial sales at 25.5 billion, up 4%. Financial services revenue at 15.1; again here is where you compare to the items that I covered on the previous page. On a comparable basis that would be up about 5%.  

Net earnings of 5.8 billion; and EPS at $0.55 as expected, up 2%. The shares were down about 1% from the buyback in the fourth quarter. That gives you the EPS up 2. And then we just had a great cash flow year as everybody knows, and I will take you through the details of that. But 21.6 billion for the year, and 13.8 billion from industrial see CFOA, up 14%.  

Over on the right side are the earnings dynamics for the quarter. 5.7 billion last year, the strong results from the businesses that we talked about and I will cover in a minute; offset by some of the onetime items from the previous periods; and then the increase in pension and other, including tax, to get you to the 5.8 billion this year.  

So five or six businesses up double-digit in the fourth quarter and in line with expectations.  

Now before I get to the businesses, I want to do one page to just show the details of continuing and discontinued operations. On the top line are the continuing operations, for both the fourth quarter and the total year that we have covered already, the $0.55 and the $1.72.  

Now we have two entities that went into discontinued operations in the fourth quarter, Genworth and Insurance Solutions. You can see both came in as expected in the quarter. Genworth, 200 million in the fourth quarter positive; and Insurance Solutions at 2.9 billion after-tax loss, which we announced when we made the announcement about the disposition to Swiss Re.  

Then you get down to the net earnings in total. For GE going forward, we will be reporting on a continuing operations basis; then we'll also give the total discontinued for completeness of the financial statements.  

Now on the bottom of the page, what I want to cover are the tax rates and also share again the impact of discontinued operations. The top line in the box is GE ex-GECS, which would be referred to as the industrial rate. You can see through three quarters, year to date, about 25%. For the total year we ended at 23%.  

In the fourth quarter, we did have a capital repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act. We repatriated about $1.2 billion of cash in the fourth quarter, which gave us a benefit versus the third quarter year-to-date rate. But as I mentioned, if you just look at the fourth-quarter tax rates on industrial they were up a couple of points year-over-year in the quarter.  

Then in the middle is GE Capital Services continuing ops. If you take out the impact of insurance, through three quarters the financial service tax rate was about 12%, and ended the total year 11%. So that was in line with our expectations.  

Then finally, the bottom line is if you did include the results of the discontinued ops; so you left Genworth and the Insurance Solutions, including the loss, in. For through three quarters year-to-date we are at 19% rate on financial services and 17% for the total year, in line with what we had expected. So that basically shows you the impact insurance has on our rates. The higher taxed insurance coming out lowers the GECS tax rate.  

So overall total year continuing operations $1.72, up 10%. That is what will be focused on and reporting going forward.  

Let me shift to cash flow in the quarter and for the year. We had a terrific year; you can see the 21.6, the GECS dividend, and $7.8 billion. We restored the regular GECS dividend to 40% for the full year. We had excess capital from some of the Genworth secondaries that allowed us to dividend up about 3.9 billion from Genworth, giving us that $7.8 billion.  

On the industrial side, up 14%, $13.8 billion. It was a terrific performance for cash for our industrial businesses.  

On the right side is the cash walk that we show you. We started the year with 3.2 billion of cash. CFOA of 21.6 from the left side of the chart. We paid our dividends, 9.4 billion. We bought back $5 billion of stock. We had about $2.8 billion of plant and equipment. We made $3.9 billion of acquisitions, net of dispositions. The change in Debt/Other was 1.7.  

We ended the quarter with $10.2 billion of debt, and net debt was basically flat year-over-year. So a terrific cash performance, and it allowed us to return over $14 billion of cash to our shareholders with dividends and buyback.  

So let me just close 2005. One summary before I turn in to the results in the quarter and look at 2006 first quarter. Just an overall great year. Revenue up 11% across the enterprise. Double-digit earnings, up 12%. Great cash flow, up 42%. Return on total capital for the Company was 16.2%, and that will rise to over 18% this year.  

All six businesses up double-digit earnings growth. Great Vs. Really terrific performances by the team. 8% organic growth across this portfolio, which is a tremendous result with the growth focus we have in the Company. Great cash flow.  

And if you looked, go back to the page where I showed you the performance of the businesses in the fourth quarter, and you look at those Vs, that is the confidence we have and the evidence we have about the strong momentum as we enter 2006. So we're feeling pretty good about where we are heading.  

Let me turn to 2006. Here's the first-quarter operations outlook. Give you the guidance for revenues and segment profit for the six businesses. You can see continued strong performances in infrastructure. Great performance continuing in industrial. Commercial and Consumer Finance are set up for terrific quarters. Healthcare has a lot of momentum and very good broad global strength. NBC Universal will be similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter.  

So when you put that portfolio together for the first quarter, right side, revenues will be 37 to 38 billion, up 5 to 10%. Our earnings forecast at 3.9 to 4.1 billion, up 11 to 17%. And EPS $0.38 to $0.40, up 15 to 21%.  

A point about the tax rates for 2006. The estimates that we have in our forecasts here would have an industrial tax rate of around 24 to 26% and a financial services tax rate of 17 to 19%. So first-quarter guidance of $0.38 to $0.40.  

Now I will take you through the six businesses and look at the fourth quarter and look at the first quarter.  

Start with infrastructure. Infrastructure had a great quarter and a great year. Revenues of $12 billion in the quarter, up 11%. Tremendous growth. A segment profit of 2.4 billion, up 16%; and for the total year up 14%.  

Aviation remains solid. You can see the revenues and the segment profits down on the bottom left. Service orders up 12, CSA backlog up 23. Had good revenue growth; it was up 5. It was really driven by the commercial engine revenue, up 21. Military engines were down 4%. Op profit up 6; we had price and productivity that was offset by higher R&D for the GEnx spend, and we had some late military spares orders that came in which pushed into first quarter.  

If you look at energy, on track. Revenues up 14; op profit up 10. Service orders were really strong, up 16%. The equipment backlog is also up 16%. They had good orders. A quarter. The revenue was driven by higher wind shipments; we had over 900 wind units versus 300 last year. Service revenues were 13%. The op profit was up 10%, a little less than the revenue growth. Driven by great services growth, partially offset by some continued pressure in Hydro.  

Oil and gas had a great quarter. Look at the revenue up 30 and the op profit up 60. Had a great year of profit up over 24%.  

Transportation continues to have a great year. 197 EVO locomotives shipped and a tremendous backlog, as I said, almost two years of production in the backlog.  

The financial services verticals continue to perform very well.  

So when you look at infrastructure in total and you turn to the first quarter, we expect to continue to see a very good performance out of aviation, both equipment deliveries and services.  

Energy, we're expecting to be about flat. It has got a tougher comparison in the first quarter; units will be down from 20, from 34 gas turbines this year to about 22 next year in the quarter. And we had no repeat of some terminations last year, so they will be about flat. But they are on track for the total year up 10 to 15.  

Financial services verticals continue to be strong. And oil and gas and transportation will have a strong quarter. So overall segment profit for the quarter up 10 to 15.  

Look at Commercial Finance, also had a great quarter and a great year. If you look here, the revenues are 5.2 billion on a reported basis, down 3%. If you just adjust for some two dispositions they had of some Canadian retail business, that would be up 3%. You can see the segment profit up 18%, very strong.  

We had strong volume growth in all the businesses. Capital solutions volume was up 15 in the quarter. We're seeing a lot of economic activity. Corporate financial services up 14. Real estate up 30. So a lot of economic activity and that is driving good volume growth.  

If you look in the quarter, capital solutions had very good core growth. They had some increased loss provisions and lower gains, resulting in the op profit only being up 1%. But for the year they were up 14%. They had a tremendous year, and they are well positioned, with their current asset growth up over 8% in the quarter, for the first quarter for 2006.  

Real estate had a great performance overall. Only up 4 in the quarter, but we had a lot less sales of assets in the fourth quarter versus the fourth quarter prior year. Overall for the year the real estate team was up 14%, so a tremendous performance.  

If you look, we had great growth in healthcare. The vertical was up 23%. And the corporate financial services business was up over 50% for this segment for the fourth quarter.  

So the portfolio is in good shape. Nonearnings, delinquencies, and write-offs are all down versus the prior year. We expect to see a pretty good 2006, and it will start in the first quarter. Capital solutions should be up 10 to 15, and real estate will be up over 20, and the overall segment up about 15% in the first quarter.  

Shift to industrial. Great results in the quarter. Terrific performance overall. Revenues at 8.4 billion, up 1%.  

I think the first point on the top right is important here. There were five less days in the quarter, fourth quarter of 2005 versus the fourth quarter of 2004. That impacted the top line by about 6 points. You can see we have adjusted the revenues down in the bottom left for that impact of just having less days in the quarter, to try and give you a comparable about run rates and what it means for the future.  

We had a great segment profit result here, up 25%. Strong C&I performance. Priced continued to exceed material inflation, and we had a 4% total cost productivity here, which basically fell through to the bottom line. Our appliance business continued to gain share at the high end. Profit was up strong double-digit. And we had great performances in our industrial business and our supply business. So a good performance in C&I.  

Plastics, you see the revenue up 4 adjusted, and profit up 1. We are really managing that price and volume inflation trade-off. The average daily order rates were solid. US was up 5%, Asia was up 11, Europe continues to be soft for us. China is great, really good growth. We made some trade-offs here. To manage our margins we raised our price in November. We lost some volume in the fourth quarter, done about 2 to 3%; but price was up about 6%. We were hit with some inflation in natural gas in operations in the quarter.  

However, when you look at the first quarter, we've got a forecast for plastic to be up 10%. Continue to see the strength in US and Asia. We want to have price greater than inflation; we feel pretty good about that. Volume has got to be up, and the January ADOR is up 11% year-to-date, so we have got some good momentum there.  

Equipment services had a great quarter. You can see the results, and we expect them to continue to have a good quarter. So if you look overall at the segment profit here for the first quarter, it should be up 15 to 20%.  

Let me turn to NBCU. NBCU had a tougher fourth quarter, but there is a lot to be positive about here. Revenues down 3, really driven by the network, partially offset by cable. Segment profit down 7. It is pretty much the same dynamics. You can see that down in the bottom. If you look at the quarter, the earnings trends in prime and stations and TV production were similar to what we saw in the third quarter.  

Film also had some tougher comparisons in the fourth quarter, but overall had a great year. Op profit for the film business was up over 90%. If you look at the combination of network and film in the fourth quarter, that was partially offset by good growth in entertainment cable, up 25%; improvement in info cable; benefits from MSNBC restructuring; and a rebound in the Telemundo, where earnings were up 17%. You can see the ratings growth we have there.  

So as you look to 2006, we are confident about the earnings outlook of $3 billion for NBC Universal. We have made progress with prime ratings. We ended Q4 with a 3.2 rating, which was up from the second and third quarter levels of 2.8 and 1.9. So that is nice progress. The Thursday night strategy is working. We continue to see ratings strength from Earl and The Office. We got a lot of positive news there.  

Lastly just to close on a topic that's been reported about a lot, we feel great about the execution on King Kong. The movie has already grossed over $500 million worldwide. It's on track to get close to $600 million, and we're positioned for a good return on the project. So we feel great about that as well.  

So total year for the NBC team looks at about $3 billion, and the first quarter outlook looks similar to what we saw in the fourth quarter, segment profit down around 10%.  

Let me close on the final two businesses. Healthcare had a great quarter. If you look, revenues at 4.5 billion, up 5%. Organic revenue growth here was up at 8%. Segment profit up 16%. We had broad strengths here across the businesses. The technology business op profit was up 16. The biosciences business op profit was up 17. The op profit rate for the quarter was 22%, up 2 points, so nice margin growth.  

Solid organic growth in the quarter from the DI business, ultrasound, healthcare IT. Even more positively, when you look at the orders, stronger equipment orders, up about 7%. And that is really driven by our new product strategy and our technology strategy.  

Our VCT is really doing great in the marketplace; we had over 190 units in the quarter versus 55 last year. The total year was over 600 units. The high-def MR is 170 units versus 70 last year. Vividi in ultrasound, 330 units versus 55. So the technology focus is winning here, and our equipment and services backlogs are up 13%. The first-quarter outlook looks really good with both biosciences and the technology delivery node. Nice profit growth.  

Then finally, on the right side, Consumer Finance. They also had a great quarter. You can see the numbers. Revenue up 14; op profit up 21. Great core growth really was the driver here. Assets were up 11%, ex-FX; so we are hurt by the stronger dollar here in the quarter. Strong core growth up 10% in this business.  

And pretty good broad-based growth. You look at the Americas were up 30%, Europe was up 35, Austria was up 40. Credit quality is improved. The 30-day delinquency declined from the third quarter, as I said. And write-offs as a percent of [A&E] were down 10 basis points year-over-year.  

So one item that I would highlight here is in the fourth-quarter bankruptcy impact in the US. We did have gross write-offs of $157 million. But net of reserves, which we already provide for, based on these delinquent accounts that were probably going to go bankrupt, the client share was about a 25 million after-tax effect in the fourth quarter; in the total year was about 50. So we managed our way through that as well as could be expected.  

So first quarter for the consumer business books pretty good. Based on the asset growth and the global strength we have, segment profit should be up about 15%.  

One final page before I turn it back to Jeff. When you look at the portfolio, you look at the strength of the Company today, with the strength of cash in 2005 at 21.6, we are estimating 2006 cash flow to be about 24 to $25 billion. We will have 10 to 15% CFOA growth.  

The industrial cash will grow in line with earnings. We will continue to have the financial services dividend at 40% of earnings; plus we will release capital, excess capital from insurance proceeds.  

Because of that we have had great financial flexibility. We were able to grow our dividends for the 30th consecutive year to $1.00 a share, up 14%. The buyback, we did $5 billion last year; we were originally going to do $3 billion. We're taking the buyback in '06 up to 7 to $9 billion and the whole program up to 25 billion through '08. So that is going to be about 1.5 point reduction in shares again in 2006.  

And we're investing for growth. We have enough capital to invest for growth in both our financial services and our industrial businesses. You see us continue to make very strategic acquisitions to build out the portfolio. So great financial flexibility. Let me turn it back to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith. Just to wrap up here, first on the revenue side. We have talked about driving the Company to achieve consistent top-line success. And just gives you a sense of how we think about it. We view the economy in 2006 as more or less the same as 2005, and we think that will generate about $4 billion of growth for the Company.  

Developing markets momentum for us is just substantial. We, as we look forward, have great backlogs and good momentum in those regions. Services and equipment backlog, again, we have got great momentum in both CSAs and equipment backlog.  

3 to $5 billion from incremental growth. We think we will get there. We're now running about $3 billion of incremental growth out of the Imagination Breakthroughs every year. When you look at both financial services and industrial acquisitions, less dispositions, we think that on balance will be about 3 to $5 billion of incremental revenue growth in 2006 as well.  

So we feel like we have got a decent sense of where the growth is going to come from and how we look at where we're going for the year. So that has really been the output of a lot of focus we have had, not just in the last 12 months, but over the last three or four years, in terms of making growth a process.  

Shifting gears just to wrap up on 2006 financials, we talked about this in December of about 165 billion in revenue. Net income between 20.2 and 21.1, up 10 to 15%. And on an earnings basis, on an EPS basis up 13 to 17%. And as Keith said, very strong cash flow from operating activities.  

Good momentum and visibility into 2006. Portfolio quality from a financial services standpoint in great shape. We think the initiatives around growth are really working for us right now. Again, we have said over and over again that it is a great thing for the Company to get this insurance repositioning behind us. This has dampened our performance and we feel like, as you look forward with the Company, we just have great strength and momentum.  

That has really looked -- reflected when you look at the quarterly guidance that we are giving. We get off the year on a very strong start, and on a total year probably even slightly better than what we had thought in the fourth quarter last year. So good view on the total year.  

Just to wrap up, a strong 2005 performance and a fourth quarter that is in line with what our expectations are. Consistent and sustainable double-digit earnings growth into 2006, and expanding ROTC at the same time. Good cash flow, driving financial flexibility. Solid AAA. Great culture, great team.  

And again as you look at 2006, we think we're on track for an excellent year in 2006. So, Bill, with that, turn it back to you and let's take some questions.  

BILL CARY: Great, thanks very much. Rachel, at this point, let's go ahead and open the line for Q&A if you would please.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Jeff Sprague with Citigroup.  

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Can you just spend a little more time on the anomaly with the days? I realize you just highlighted it in flow, which is probably more relevant. When you think about the lumpiness of the equipment businesses, it may be less relevant; although I would think it would have impacted service and some other things. So could you just tell us about what it was about how you closed the year that the days were different, then maybe color on some of the other segments that you didn't highlight on the call?  

JEFF IMMELT: Sure, Jeff. It wasn't how we closed the year. Basically just our fiscal calendar, when you divide into the fourth quarters, we had five more days in the fourth quarter of 2004 than we had in the fourth-quarter 2005. So that is the only adjustment we're talking about.  

It is easy to adjust it in the flow, and it probably also did have an impact in our services businesses. We have got some idea what that was, but it wasn't really that material. Then also in the financial services businesses. So I think we have tried to say that overall in the quarter, 3% top line reported; but when you look at it organically, across this portfolio we're at 8% again. (multiple speakers) which is five days.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Would you describe that as 8 in both industrial and financial? Or is there a little bit of a difference between the two in the quarter?  

JEFF IMMELT: Yes, it's pretty close. It is 8 industrial, and it is 9 in financial.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Then just one business question and I will pass it. On energy, you actually highlighted Hydro as kind of the margin issue. Previously it was wind that was kind of in the price cost struggle. Should we take from that that wind is really closing that gap? Can you give us a little bit more detail on what is going on in Hydro?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, if you look at wind, we feel great about the business position. We've got a record backlog, the pricing is up, we continue to have incredible demand. We are sold out and we just can't fill the orders. We do expect to have a significant profit improvement in 2006 from wind with those deliveries.  

In Hydro, we just continue to see cost pressure from some of the global projects that the team had taken. We are working our way through that. I don't think it's going to be something that is material in 2006.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: But on wind, you are, given the strength of demand, I doubt if you are reopening contracts; but have you been able to price much better on this forward-looking business?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, the new pricing is significantly better. We honored the old contracts that we inherited, but that is really done now. We're going to make good money on wind this year.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Nicole Parent with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Keith, just one question on the tax rate, I guess. Could you just explain a little bit why repatriation would cause it to go down? Then I guess a follow-up would be, what is the tax rate guidance for 2006?  

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. We took a look at our globally reinvested foreign earnings, and the majority of them are continually permanently reinvested in productive assets overseas, and supporting the growth of the Company globally. But we had about 1.2 billion of earnings that were overseas that we thought we could repatriate that had been provided for at rates above the repatriation rate of 5%.  

So we were able to bring those $1.2 billion of cash back and get a benefit by having the rate of tax be only 5% in accordance with the American Jobs Creation Act. So it was a previously provided rate above that number; so that is how you get that.  

Then for the 2006, I had those on a chart where I talked about the outlook for 2006. We're talking about 24 to 26% on the industrial rate in 2006 and 17 to 19% on the financial services rate. It is on page 13.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay, and just one follow-up on healthcare, I guess. Is the disconnect between the reported revenue growth of 5% and organic 8% largely FX?  

And in light of the deficit reduction act that was passed in December, which causes for like a $3 billion cut to imaging reimbursement, how would that impact the business as you look into '07 and '08?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know what I would say, Nicole, is I think FX was like 2 points and we had --  

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare had also a disposition.  

JEFF IMMELT: 1 point of disposition. That was part of, I think, Instrumentarium that we sold this year, the dental x-ray business. So what I would say is when you look at the proposed health care act, again it is largely outpatient focused. That has been a business that has been slow for us really in the last couple years.  

So I think when we look at our DI backlog, and what we think is going to happen around the world, we still think that is going to be revenue in the mid single digits going into the future.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Dave Bleustein with UBS.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN, ANALYST, UBS: Can you help me understand some of the variability of the GE Capital tax rate? And maybe provide some color as to the tax locations where the income is earned.  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, the variability of the rate, we had 11% for the total year; it was in line. We had 12% through the third quarter year-to-date. So I didn't have a lot of volatility in the fourth quarter. We did have some benefits from some Commercial Finance structured transactions in the quarter. Other than that, it is mostly from continued reinvestment of our overseas earnings at lower than the US tax rates.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: Okay. Did you calculate 6.6% for the fourth quarter for GE Capital?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, 7.1%  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: Okay, 7.1. Then why is the tax rate higher in 2006?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, there are some things that -- if you remember in 2005 we got a lot of benefits from the American Jobs Creation Act that were kind of one-time in the aircraft leasing business. Those have affected the rates in Capital and in Gecis. Those don't repeat in 2006.  

We do get an ongoing benefit from our leasing operations; but the one-time transfers did not repeat. We also had some onetime transactions in the Commercial Finance in Europe that won't repeat. Those would be the two primary drivers.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: Okay, terrific. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Deane Dray with Goldman Sachs.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I don't have a tax question. What I do, what I would like to ask is the potential for GE increasing their exposure to nuclear energy and what the opportunities are there, near-term, longer-term? Might that create any potential conflicts with the SRI groups? Or is that not an issue?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know what I would say, Deane, is that we really can't comment on any potential transactions. We are in the business today. It is a good business and a healthy business. We are in our existing business reinvesting back into new technology. So regardless of what might happen in the future, we like the position we've got in nuclear business today. Beyond that I just can't comment on any potential transactions.  

DEANE DRAY: I appreciate that. Then on NBC, we are about to hit the Olympics and this would be -- could you just review with us what the economics are and how that will affect the first quarter? And what the potential cross-selling synergies are for these Olympics?  

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Deane, is the Olympic revenue that we will see in the first quarter is, what, 650 to 750 for the quarter. It is about breakeven in total for NBC. I would say on the top sponsorship program, the incremental revenue into Torino was slight, probably in the 50 to $100 million range. That builds by the time we get to Beijing to be probably somewhere between 500 million to 1 billion. Torino we got working on later; Beijing we have got kind of full thrust going.  

DEANE DRAY: So this is more of a revenue opportunity rather than margin?  

JEFF IMMELT: Exactly. When I say that, I talk about sales. There's things like portable power, mod space, incremental healthcare, portable units, things like that.  

KEITH SHERIN: And overall, including all the affiliate contributions and the sub-fees that we get in the years when we're not in the Olympics, this is a very profitable franchise for us.  

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Robert McCarthy, CIBC World Markets.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY, ANALYST, CIBC WORLD MARKETS: Could you talk about kind of the weakness in plastics in Europe? Is there any specific end market that impacted that?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, what I would say there, Rob, is I would say the underlying economic growth in Europe is not that bad. As we have driven growth or have driven response to inflation in plastics, we have really had a strong focus on maintaining margins. So my sense is that we might have lost a little market share in the fourth quarter in Europe.  

I think the underlying growth in Europe has been pretty consistent with what we have seen throughout the year, in terms of the automotive industry and things like that. US business was solid, consistent with what we see here, 5%. And China continues to really be strong.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: All right. Then on the selling days, excuse me, the five less shipping days in the quarter, how should we think about it? Was the impact in the first quarter, in fact? Did they have more shipping days in that quarter?  

JEFF IMMELT: Right.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: And that probably affected the organic growth rate in that quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: It affected the overall revenue V, yes. Absolutely. (multiple speakers)  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: (multiple speakers) think about that in terms of the first quarter.  

KEITH SHERIN: That's why taking a look at the total-year numbers that we're dealing with here is the right way to think about this.  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Thank you for your time, gentlemen.  

OPERATOR: Peter Nesvold with Bear Stearns.  

PETER NESVOLD, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: First a quick question on the capital side. It looked like in capital solutions and real estate there was at least a modest disconnect between volume and revenue growth. You mentioned some of that as FX and maybe some asset dispositions.  

Can you talk more specifically, though, where are you leaning on the securitization market a little bit more, number one? Number two, what is the magnitude of the impact to the financials?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, actually, if you look at it, securitization gains in Commercial Finance in the fourth quarter of '05 were about $29 million; and they were down $50 million from the fourth quarter of '04. So again this is a dynamic in the quarter. There were less gains, there were less asset sales in the business. I think we are pretty well positioned here, Peter.  

PETER NESVOLD: Okay.  

ANN DUIGNAN, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: And a follow-up from Ann Duignan, thanks. I just wanted to follow-up on aerospace. Have you already experienced a mix shift because of the strength of OEM assembly? Or will we see a little bit more shift towards OEM products in '06? And what impact is that going to have on profitability?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, again, I would say that you're going to see more OEM shift next year. So what I would predict is that we will have a lot more revenue; that the operating profit rate expansion will be less, because service as a percentage of the total will be less. But you'll still get -- we will still get some op profit expansion because of productivity and other items. But I would say as you look at '06, '07, and out you're going to get more product sales.  

ANN DUIGNAN: Okay, thank you.  

OPERATOR: John Inch with Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Keith, the 4% industrial revenue growth in the quarter versus the 8% that you mentioned, what are the component walk-throughs to bridge that? Like, say, FX or dispositions, that sort of thing?  

KEITH SHERIN: For the total Company?  

ROBERT MCCARTHY: Just for the industrial company.  

KEITH SHERIN: For the industrial company, I don't have an organic walk for that, John. We will have to get you that.  

JOHN INCH: You know what roughly? I am just trying to understand. Like I think in mid-December you guys thought total revs were going to be about 42-plus, right? So they're little bit lighter. I am just curious how much maybe FX accounted for that.  

KEITH SHERIN: FX was about 1 point on the industrial side. I think the price volume trade-off was a bigger factor in the industrial segment. You know, it is probably a couple hundred million dollars of plastics that we did not take.  

JEFF IMMELT: John, you know what I would say is it is probably about $1 billion. It is about 3 or 400 million of FX. It is probably -- and I am talking total Company now, John. It is probably about 4 or $500 million of less asset sales and financial services. Then plastics would be the remainder. So what I would say is that I think as we finished the year, those were probably the puts and takes around revenue growth.  

JOHN INCH: Just on Commercial Finance, again, I apologize if you mentioned this, but how do you go to 5.2 this year versus 6.8 last year? What is the difference?  

And what is going on in this corporate items and eliminations line? Is there something that goes from one bucket to the other?  

KEITH SHERIN: I think that is maybe discontinued operations. We took other insurance out of Commercial Finance, and it's in corporate, John. So I think that is the big piece.  

JEFF IMMELT: That is the runoff.  

KEITH SHERIN: You are really doing [42 90] versus [40 49] next year.  

JOHN INCH: Okay, great.  

OPERATOR: Don MacDougall with Banc of America Securities.  

DON MACDOUGALL, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Just a follow-on on John's question; I want to make sure I understand this. But I think in December you had guided total Company revenues to about $151 billion. We finished up just shy of 150. That billion dollar change, and you had cited ForEx, financial services, and plastics, did that occur in the last two weeks of December?  

JEFF IMMELT: No, I think, at the end of the year we never really know exactly where the FX is going to occur and what the asset sales. I would say the toughest one for us to predict is going to be where the financial service revenue goes. So I would say that is where most of the volatility took place.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Okay, and looking into the first quarter, Jeff, your guidance suggested 15 to 21% year-over-year. That is actually a little more front-end loaded than we typically see from GE. Is that a reflection of -- maybe you could give us a sense for where that extra confidence is coming from?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, I think if you look both in terms of the infrastructure businesses, and services, and then financial services, we just have built backlog. So we are shipping out of backlog. It gives us good confidence and pretty high visibility vis-a-vis how we look at the year.  

DON MACDOUGALL: One final one, Jeff, and it's actually Don. But the plastics price volume trade-off that you have talked about, is that do you think at the end? In other words, you're basically done giving up the volume? Because you think there is more pricing power out there. Or is that something that we should look for more of in 2006?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know what I would say, Don, is it has just been a business that has been reasonably volatile from a standpoint of both natural gas and benzene. I think we feel very comfortable that we covered benzene. We had -- natural gas went up in the fourth quarter of the year. We went for another price increase to cover that. So I just think it's one of the things we're going to have to continue to manage, but we're pretty good at it.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Scott Davis with Morgan Stanley.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I just wanted to get a refresher on your acquisition strategy for '06. I think the catalyst to the question is the Arden Realty deal that you did, maybe announced a month ago. It seemed a little larger, maybe a little bit pricier than some of the things that we had talked about in the past. So maybe we can get a refresh and a little background. First of all on why Arden and particularly at this price? And also what should we be expecting in '06?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, first on the industrial side, we still think 3 to $5 billion for the year of things that are on strategy with good returns. We think in financial services, we want to be growing globally in financial services.  

In real estate, we have sold assets, we have added assets as time went on. When we looked at Arden we felt like it gave us a good platform in terms of Southern California and something we could build on.  

I think if you look at the transaction, we also sold, I think about 20% of the properties at a price higher than what we paid for the company in general. So I think that is a pretty good validation that the price we got was pretty -- was not bad vis-a-vis where the world of real estate is.  

So we would like to grow assets 8 to 10% in Commercial Finance this year. That is what our game plan is. I think it's going to be probably a little bit more outside the United States than inside the United States, but we think that kind of opportunity is out there for us.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, as an unrelated follow-on, the 7 to $9 billion share repurchase for '06, what would you estimate we will actually be able to reduce the share count? Basically saying, how much dilution from options and stock grants are you anticipating?  

JEFF IMMELT: (technical difficulty) Scott, could you just hear Keith?  

SCOTT DAVIS: I could not.  

KEITH SHERIN: Sorry, Scott. We'll do a quick swap here with Bill. We're going to buy back 7 to 9 billion, and it will reduce the share count on average for the year about 1.5 points.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, guys.  

OPERATOR: Tony Boase with A.G. Edwards.  

TONY BOASE, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: I wanted to clarify something on the five less days. You mentioned that on the order side for the quarter, orders were up 6% I think for the total Company. If you adjust for the five less days, what would we have experienced?  

KEITH SHERIN: That is including an adjustment for that impact. That is an ADOR.  

TONY BOASE: Okay, that is an ADOR? Just on the flow businesses, it looks like orders have kind of trended down the past couple of quarters here, 5% in the third quarter, now it's 3% for the fourth quarter. Is initiative strictly a plastics issue, or is there anything else going on that is maybe impacting that?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know what I would say, Tony, is we think the economy has been pretty good. I would say it has probably been as much plastics as any other single driver in that business. I would say in virtually all those businesses, kind of we have really driven hard on the pricing front, and have -- the margin rates kind of reflect that, particularly when you look at consumer and industrial.  

So I mean, I wouldn't read -- really in terms of the broader economy, I wouldn't read too much into it. I think it's been pretty consistent throughout the year.  

TONY BOASE: Just a question on provision for losses, it came at [8.86] quarter, that seemed a little bit light, given that really delinquencies haven't changed that much, since the third quarter.  

KEITH SHERIN: (technical difficulty) year-over-year if you remember (technical difficulty)  

JEFF IMMELT: Tony, are you there?  

TONY BOASE: I am here and I couldn't hear the answer.  

JEFF IMMELT: Okay, I don't know; we've got a problem with our microphones here. Hold on one second, okay?  

KEITH SHERIN: Sorry, I was swapping with Bill again here. Tony, what I said was if you look at the provision year-over-year, last year, the fourth quarter, the specific reserves were $260 million for USAir, ATA, and ACA. And that more than accounts for all the difference between the provision year-over-year. We had huge reserves that we added for those specific accounts last year, and we didn't need to do that again this year.  

TONY BOASE: So it's better to look at on a year-over-year as opposed to a sequential basis, then.  

KEITH SHERIN: I think it's better to look at it on the total year, actually.  

TONY BOASE: Okay, thanks.  

KEITH SHERIN: We're going to do one more.  

OPERATOR: Nicole Parent, with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

NICOLE PARENT: Just two follow-ups. One would just be on the split of energy between equipment revenues and service. You gave us the order number.  

I guess the second one would just be, what did water sales and profit due in the quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: On water, we had revenue of about 480, up 17%. The op profit was about 36 million. I will get Bill to give you the split of equipment and services for energy. I don't have it here.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay, do you know what the turbine shipments were in the quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, turbine shipments were --  

JEFF IMMELT: Do you know what it was?  

KEITH SHERIN: About 34, JoAnna?  

JEFF IMMELT: I think it was about -- yes.  

KEITH SHERIN: Hang on one second; I think we have got it here. I have 34 versus 28 last year, Nicole.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay. Thank you.  

JEFF IMMELT: I think we are tracking to about 130 for 2006.  

KEITH SHERIN: It is 130 for the year, yes.  

JEFF IMMELT: With something like 22 in Q1, and it builds throughout the year.  

NICOLE PARENT: Thank you.  

BILL CARY: Okay, Rachel, thanks very much for the questions and thanks everybody for dialing in today. Sorry about the snafu with the sound here. Hopefully you guys were able to hear all the questions. Obviously, a transcript will be available later today as well.  

JoAnna and I are around all day if you guys want to go through any more questions. Please feel free to give us a call. And with that, we will sign off. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation today, and you may now disconnect. Have a wonderful day.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060203e21k0008d
  


 HD
 Q4  2004  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,622 words
   PD
21 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day and welcome to the General Electric fourth quarter 2004 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Rachel, and I will be your conference coordinator today. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please press star followed by zero and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Bill Cary, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.  

BILL CARY, VICE PRESIDENT INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, Rachel, and good morning, everybody. Welcome. Joann and I are very pleased to host this call this morning.  

   TD
Please remember that this is a Webcast so if you haven't already refreshed your browser to see the slides and materials, hopefully you have the press release from this morning that hit the wire around 6:30, and the slides that we're walking through are available on our Web site at  www.ge.com , forward slash investor, along with some supplemental data. Again, if you don't see it, please refresh. You can print and download, follow along with us.  

As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Of course, those elements can change as the world changes, and we'd ask that you interpret all of our comments in that light.  

This morning we'll cover our current quarter performance, we'll give you some highlights of 2004, spend a few minutes on our outlook for the first quarter of 2005, and of course allow time at the end for Q&As.  

To do all of that we have JEFF IMMELT, our Chairman and CEO. Unfortunately though, today Keith Sherin, our Senior Vice President and CFO is home with the flu, as he has been all week, but he is with us on the line this morning and I'm going to do some of the slides that Keith usually presents. But Keith, are you with us?  

KEITH SHERIN, SR. VICE PRESIDENT, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: I am, Bill. Thank you. It was a unanimous request to have me stay home, so thanks for taking---  

BILL CARY: No problem. Jeff, you ready to go?  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Sure am, Bill. Thanks. Good morning.  

Just on the first page on the overview page, you know, our environment remains very positive. Our fourth quarter orders were up 15 percent, really solid across the board. Again, the breadth and the depth of the momentum we see is very positive. Asset growth is up about 20 percent, good portfolio quality.  

The headlines and the numbers that Bill's going to go through in a little bit are pretty solid. Revenue up 18 percent, reflecting both good organic growth and acquisitions, fourth quarter earnings up 18 percent, EPS of $0.51. Nine of 11 businesses growing double digit in the fourth quarter, and Industrial earnings, as a percentage of total, 55 percent, so good Industrial financial mix.  

A good balance sheet and cash generation. Cash above plan up 18 percent, really fueled by industrial CFOA. Parent support being reduced ahead of plan, and a solid pension surplus of close to $7 billion.  

The strategy remains the same. You know, we've got Amersham and Universal, I think, pretty successfully integrated with synergies ahead of plan. We announced some acquisitions in Infrastructure business and dispositions in motors and Gecis and our initiatives are delivering with growth platforms up 17 percent, global revenues up 16 percent, and services up 12 percent, so lots of momentum as we look at the business going into 2005.  

The next page on the fourth quarter wins, I'm not going to go through all of these but just give you some of the highlights.  

In Transportation, we continue to see great service growth behind the solid installed base and success we've had in campaigns in both the rail business and the engines business. A great rail win, for instance, in China.  

In Energy, we continue to see technology winning. Good wind orders. Another commitment on the H System power turbine and beginning to get a lot of interest in the coal gasification projects.  

Healthcare, good wins in both technology, high technology products, a great quarter for biosciences. And Consumer Finance continued to do acquisitions around the world really highlighted by the mortgage business in Australia and a great new platform in Russia.  

Our Commercial Finance, we announced the acquisition of Citigroups' commercial truck financing business and we continue to expand our verticals as a key way to grow. NBC Universal, great transition to Brian Williams, continue to see good momentum in Universal and pretty good momentum overall.  

In Infrastructure, good business development quarter, and again, good solid organic growth in those segments as well. So really solid growth across the board, and I think the Company is seeing really great momentum.  

Bill, let me turn it over to you and just go through some of the financials.  

BILL CARY: Yeah, great.  

Starting with orders, we saw very strong momentum in the quarter and in December, and very solid execution by our commercial teams. And I'll start on the left-hand side of the page and just sort of walk across it. You can see major equipment orders were up quite nicely, up 25 percent for the year.  

Really great performances in places like Energy where we added a billion six in wind orders. But we also received orders in the quarter for 32 heavy-duty gas turbines for markets outside of the United States.  

Transportation continued to grow nicely, 12 percent growth for the year. The fourth quarter in aircraft engine had some tougher comps, but we had a really great performance in rail this year. Rail had orders up 57 percent to just below $2 billion in total orders for 2004.  

Healthcare, big growth obviously in healthcare. Solid contribution from biosciences.  

But we're seeing very good growth at the high-end in the diagnostic imaging business in VCT, in our vascular line with our Innova product and an ultrasound with the new Vivid i. So really great growth across the businesses in our major equipment category.  

The more economically sensitive businesses in the middle here in the flow businesses up also quite nicely, 12 percent in the fourth quarter on an after acquisitions and dispositions basis.  

Materials, really a story of excellent commercial execution, continuing to get price. We're basically running at capacity in plastics currently, and that's really given us great momentum in the marketplace with orders up 20 percent for the year.  

Infrastructure saw double-digit growth in water, security, and the [fan] business in 2004, the CNC market is actually doing quite well with growth in machine tools.  

And Consumer & Industrial had both 9 percent growth for the quarter and for the year, and that reflected double-digit growth at appliances and our industrial systems business. So as you look across the businesses, you know, 13 percent growth for the year, 12 percent for the fourth quarter in total, and December was actually a little stronger than that, up about 14 percent.  

On the very far right, services, excellent execution, really one of GE's strongest assets here is the services businesses. Total year service orders up 13 percent, really across the businesses.  

Energy up 16 percent, Transportation continues to just really do a wonderful job. Spares were up 19 percent in the quarter to $15 million a day.  

Healthcare saw double-digit momentum in the Healthcare services business. And the story here really for us is the growth in CSAs. We added $9.5 billion in orders to our CSA portfolio for the total year including about $5 billion in the fourth quarter.  

Engines had a great performance with $3.6 billion of additional orders in CSAs. Carriers like Ryanair and Emirates really showing the strong growth in aircraft engine services.  

Energy also continued to grow. We added over a billion dollars in CSAs in Energy in the fourth quarter, and we're translating this service model into our infrastructure businesses.  

You can see the water business had great service growth. Half of the new equipment orders were on CSAs and water. So great translation of the service model across the Company.  

Flipping to the next slide you get a sense for the performance of our Financial Services, growth really great growth across the businesses. The Consumer businesses added $44 billion in assets this year to just over 150 billion, up 42 percent.  

Really every poll in the Consumer business executed well. We had 63 percent growth in the Americas, 22 percent growth in Europe, and 70 percent growth in Asia. So really strong performance across the Consumer businesses.  

Commercial as well, $18 billion in asset growth, up about 18 percent, driven by real estate which had growth just over 20 percent. And the commercial loans and leasing business had $8 billion in asset growth, and that doesn't reflect the previously announced acquisition of City Capital's transportation business which will close shortly, adding another $4 billion to the assets in Commercial Finance.  

Mid market volume continues to be robust. We had volume growth of over 15 percent in the Commercial Finance mid market businesses. And the bottom line on all of this is that we enter 2005 with the assets that we need to deliver the earnings outlook that we've identified for all of you.  

Shifting to the right-hand side of the slide gives you a sense for the credit quality in our Financial Services portfolios. Commercial credit is just really in very good shape.  

Delinquencies basically flat. Non-earning assets actually declined by about $120 million to just under 1.1 percent of receivables, really in very good shape.  

Consumer is also in a very good position. We made a bit of a change in our reporting methodology for the Consumer businesses and I'll explain that to you in a minute.  

You can see the differences between what we reported at 485 in delinquency and the prestandardization delinquency of 536. Even before adjustments, you can see delinquency dropped some 26 basis points. Consumer non-earnings are down 12 basis points, so really solid execution by the risk teams across GE Capital.  

Now we did standardize our write-off policy in Consumer Finance. Basically everywhere in the world now conforms to the approach that we've used in the U.S, all past-due closed-in accounts are written off at 120 days past due, all past due revolving accounts at 180 days.  

The impact of this, which you'll see in the quarter, is accelerated write-offs. And the quarter consumer write-offs are up almost a billion dollars reflecting the write-off of previously reserved receivables. So receivables will be reduced, reserves are reduced for the charge-offs, and non-earnings are also well down.  

Now this did result in a very small benefit to operations in the quarter, something less than $40 million, which is really timing, because there's no total year impact for this change. So again, as you look at both the asset growth and the credit quality in our Financial Services business, we're very well positioned as we enter 2005.  

JEFF IMMELT: On the next page, on growth initiatives, there's three growth initiatives we talked about over the last few years. The first one at product services, really broad gains, revenue up 12 percent to almost $26 billion.  

Bill talked about the growth in CSAs, but you can see growth really across the board in every business.  

The growth platforms which were businesses that we really launched about four years ago will exceed $9 billion today. Oil and gas up 10 percent, strong growth in water. Telemundo and Healthcare IT.  

And our global revenue exceeds $70 billion up 16 percent, we were seeing good strength across all the regions. China will be close to $4 billion, up 42 percent. So the growth initiatives continue to deliver and are an integral part of our top line performance.  

BILL CARY: Great, Jeff. And now I'm going to take you through the segment operations and in the businesses obviously in much more detail.  

Before we get to the business pages though, I just wanted to make a couple of headline points.  

First, we saw very solid growth in 2004 as you saw in the earlier slides. Nine of our 11 businesses generated double-digit earnings growth and this momentum really expanded into the fourth quarter.  

Energy performed in line with our commitment, $2.8 billion in total year operating profit. And the quarterly V percents got succeedingly better in Energy as we worked our way through the year. And as you'll see, Energy is continuing on target for $3.2 billion in 2005 operating profit.  

Insurance reflects the impact of our clear execution of our strategy there to increase returns in Financial Services. And as you look down the columns, whether it's revenue, whether it's segment profit, and whether it's for the quarter or the year, you can see really terrific performances by our businesses.  

And so if you go to the next slide, you're going to see the quarter we've all been waiting for which is double-digit top line and a double-digit bottom line performance for GE.  

Every metric, whether it's revenue up 18, Industrial sales up 19, Financial Services revenue 16, contributed value in Financial Services up 13, earnings 18, EPS 13, double-digit performance across the businesses and across the Company in the fourth quarter.  

On the right in the top box there's a little walk in terms of earnings. Obviously we had non-cash pension continuing in the quarter to the tune of about $100 million. Our Insurance dispositions between Genworth and the non-repeat of some operations that we sold last year are about $400 million, so operations across the rest of the Company were very strong, adding a billion three to earnings in the fourth quarter, up some 30 percent.  

In the lower right you can see a quick look at the tax rates. The Industrial tax rate is pretty much where we thought would it come out for the year. The Financial Services rate reflects the actions that we took in the quarter largely around the Gecis disposition, but also the additional reserves that we've posted in ERC, and we'll talk with you about that in a little bit more detail.  

So if you go to the next page I'll put all of this in a little bit more context. As you can see from the slide we had some positives in the quarter. We did close the disposition of Gecis in December, and the 60 percent sale there generated a gain for us.  

We really couldn't be more pleased with our new arrangement here. Gecis been ramping up its BD efforts and has built a great pipeline of potential third-party business for 2005.  

Now as part of this transaction we did record a gain of $336 million in a tax efficient transaction and we retain about 40 percent stake in Gecis going forward.  

The second item in GECAS is a tax benefit that we recorded, really driven by the new tax law, the American Jobs Creation Act. As you know, this law is intended to level the playing field for U.S. companies and for GE it's got a couple of implications.  

First and foremost we lose the benefits associated with the Fisk ETI. And this had provided a reduction in our tax rate for aircraft leasing. However, aircraft leasing now qualifies for the same tax deferral extended to GE's other active foreign operations and this reduces the rate on these activities and so we were able to record a tax benefit in the quarter by reducing the deferred taxes on this past income to the new lower rate.  

Lastly, as you probably know, we closed the disposition of two product lines in our Industrial Systems business in motors in the fourth quarter. We recorded an after-tax gain of about $88 million as part of the sale. You'll see this show up in other income and in corporate items in eliminations in the operating statements that you've got.  

Now we also had some things that were unfavorable, went the other way. The largest of which is in Insurance Solutions.  

As you know, we evaluate our loss reserves on a regular basis. As part of our year-end process we booked additional reserves for prior year losses and exited lines of business. We recorded $472 million after-tax in the quarter.  

We also booked about $44 million after-tax related to the Asian tsunami and other fourth quarter CATS. So in total, this was up about $309 million unfavorable relative to 2003.  

In the aviation space, we booked some additional reserves, about $195 million of additional reserves for losses in the fourth quarter at both GECAS and GE Transportation. These reserves are related to U.S. Air, ACA, and ATA. And as you probably know, we are active managers of our exposure in this space and we feel very good about our positions here in the aviation business.  

Lastly, we completed a number of industrial restructuring projects and in total we spent about $50 million after-tax to fund these projects. So, you know, we always have a few puts and takes in the quarter. Despite these items we grew earnings from operations 30 percent in the fourth quarter.  

Another great story for us is cash. You can see on the next slide total year CFOA of 15.2 billion up 18 percent.  

That reflects a really strong performance on the Industrial side of the Company with 27 percent year-to-date CFOA growth. You know, obviously stronger Industrial cash earnings, and we saw an improvement in working capital.  

Financial Services reflects the ongoing 10 percent of earnings as a dividend, but it does reflect lower disposition proceeds in 2004. So the Financial Services dividend went from $3.4 billion in '03 to $3.1 billion in 2004.  

As you look at the right you can see we made some pretty significant investments in the Company, about $2.4 billion of investments in plant and equipment. We also invested a little over $4 billion net in terms of dispositions and acquisitions in the Company.  

So we were able to grow the Company quite nicely, hold our net debt, or actually our net debt declined, and we returned a little over $8 billion in cash to shareholders in 2004. And we feel very good about our cash generation capability as we enter 2005.  

We also, as you can see on the next page, strengthened the balance sheets of GE. Our parent support of our Financial Services operations dropped to just over $3 billion, 3.2 was the final year-end number.  

As you know that's about a billion eight ahead of plan, and we're really excited about what this means for us in 2005. As we fully eliminate our parent support debt here we'll be able to increase the dividend in Financial Services to 40 percent of earnings and obviously that gives us lots of flexibility both to grow the Company and to return cash to shareholders.  

On the right you can see we're in great shape on our principal pension plans. The pension surplus for GE actually increased solidly double digit up 11 percent to $6.7 billion. That does reflect some further conservative assumption changes.  

We reduced our discount rate for the pension from 6 percent down 25 basis points to 5.75, but it also reflects a really great performance by the pension team in terms of delivering 11.7 percent returns. So really, as we exit 2004, we've got a very strong balance sheet across the Company.  

JEFF IMMELT: So just on the next page to close the book on 2004, great execution, nine out of 11 businesses up double-digit. Adjustment challenges but still finished at the high-end of the range we had at the beginning of the year. Went through a lot of commodity inflation, some challenging issues in hurricanes and things like that, and the continuous airline restructuring.  

The portfolio is in great shape, we feel great about what we see on Amersham and Universal. Launched the Genworth IPO and continue to fill out the grow platforms, and just solid fundamentals in the business. Strong Triple A, parent support debt reduction ahead of schedule, expanded the pension surplus, increased the dividend, and announced the $15 billion share repurchase.  

So that's 2004, and if you go to the next page, you know, we enter 2005 with a lot of momentum, just I think basically what we've talked about from the standpoint of where the Company is positioned. We think the '05 performance will be strong and broad-based.  

We will have during the year Transportation and Energy expanding simultaneously for first time since 2000. Healthcare and NBC Universal and Infrastructure have very strong momentum with successful acquisitions.  

Consumer and Commercial Finance will continue to perform, Advanced Materials, Consumer Industrial and Equipment Services are getting price because they have high capacity utilization, and we'll continue to execute on the insurance strategy.  

The initiatives around the portfolio and the growth initiatives are in full swing, so we think that gives us momentum not just in 2005, but for the future. And again, the GE business model generates a substantial and sustainable amount of excess cash flow, so again, we think we're in a period of expanding returns and having lots of cash flexibility, so we feel good about how the Company is positioned right now and Bill will take you through the first quarter.  

BILL CARY: Okay, Jeff. Thanks.  

You know, before we get into the details of the businesses, I just would like to reinforce how clear our visibility is around our Q1 outlook for 2005. Again, we're anticipating nine of our 11 businesses to be up strongly double-digit.  

And as Jeff outlined, our businesses have very real momentum entering 2005. You're going to see in that our Q1 outlook. And as you look down the Vs for each of the businesses here, you hopefully you can see what we see which is really great both top and bottom line growth and momentum into 2005.  

On consolidated basis we're forecasting double-digit revenue growth up 10 to 15 percent. Earnings will actually expand beyond that with operating leverage up 17 to 20. We see cash flow from operating activities consistent with earnings 15 to 20 percent, and earnings per share for the first quarter of $0.36 to $0.37 a share EPS, up 13 to 16 percent.  

Now if you flip to the next page, I'll take you through each of the businesses individually. We'll start with Transportation.  

Our Transportation business continues to execute on all fronts really. Orders up solidly for the year, and service continues to grow quite nicely.  

For the quarter revenue grew at 12 percent driven by aircraft up 15 percent, and very strong spares in the quarter. Shipments were 14.5 million a day, up 22 percent.  

Commercial and military engines were also up over 2004, and rail had a wonderful year. Shipments of 809 locomotives. The customer acceptance of the New Evolution Series locomotives is really quite strong and we're very, very optimistic about the rollout of that product.  

'04 op profit was up 22 percent reflecting great operation leverage on the revenue growth. And for the first quarter we see continued growth.  

Traffic continues to expand, U.S. airline traffic volume was up over 5 percent and December was even stronger in the Asian markets. Spares orders, as you saw, were up 19 percent in the fourth quarter, and we see Q1 revenues up around 10 percent and operating profit up 10 to 15 percent for the first quarter of 2005.  

Shifting to the right-hand side of this page is the details around Energy. As I mentioned earlier, Energy performed as we expected, hitting $2.8 billion in 2004 op profit.  

Services really continues to be the story here. It continued to execute very well, delivering total year op profit of 1.8 billion and orders growth of 16 percent last year.  

Energy products in the quarter actually came in a little stronger than we'd estimated. From an op profit standpoint we had better margins due to better cost control, and we shipped a couple more 7-F units at pretty good operating margins in the quarter.  

For the year, oil and gas grew revenue 10 percent and operating profit 20 percent and saw orders in the fourth quarter up over 34 percent. All of this with continued strong growth in services. Oil and gas services were up 9 percent.  

And as you also heard this morning, we continue to see very strong wind orders with the passage of the PTC and we continue to invest in the wind business in the fourth quarter to prepare for the delivery cycle in 2005. And in total across Energy, all the product lines, our backlog increased $1.9 billion in 2004. So we enter 2005 with a much stronger backlog and growth profile.  

For the first quarter we see a return to revenue growth up about 5 percent. Q1 is expected to be the last quarter of negative earnings V's as we have the last comps against units of bubble pricing, and Service is on track to deliver 10 to 15 percent op profit growth in first quarter. So total year for Energy remains on pace, $3.2 billion in total op profit for Energy.  

Go to the next page. Gives you sense for highlights for Consumer and Commercial Finance. I'll start with Consumer on the left.  

Really an excellent quarter and year for Consumer Finance. They had a great strategic performance. We expanded the GE Money brand.  

We closed five acquisitions in the fourth quarter. The largest, AFIG, gives us a broader presence in Australia.  

Consumer saw very solid asset growth as you saw earlier this morning of 42 percent with really double-digit growth in every poll. Delinquency improved in every market as well as did earnings. You can see the earnings Vs on the chart here on the bottom left.  

And the business saw great productivity with a 200 basis point improvement in expenses to assets in the fourth quarter and Consumer is very well positioned for 20 percent income growth in the first quarter.  

Commercial Finance continues to execute well as well with earnings up 12 percent in the fourth quarter, assets as you saw were up 8 percent. The City Capital acquisition would have actually taken that number to 10 percent if we had closed it in the fourth quarter as we originally contemplated. And that's about 4 points faster than the asset growth that we enjoyed in 2003.  

As you heard also this morning, we strengthened reserves in aviation. We had a solid performance in real estate with a over 20 percent increase in earnings.  

Our commercial loans and leasing business also grew earnings at a double-digit rate in 2004 up 12 percent. Fourth quarter was a little slower due to lower asset sales, but our volume continued to be quite strong as the mid market businesses delivered double-digit volume growth.  

Asset quality remains solid. Delinquency basically flat, up a couple of basis points, and our reserves as a percentage of non-earnings continues to grow, it's 135 percent of non-earnings in credit reserves. So Commercial is on track for 10 to 15 percent earnings growth in Q1 and for total year 2005.  

The next page gives you Healthcare NBC-U and Infrastructure starting with Healthcare on the lower left. We had a very strong quarter as Jeff mentioned in Healthcare and it was consistent with what we outlined in the third quarter for guidance.  

Healthcare technology was up 20 percent in op profit driven by Services up 17, and our continued focus on the high-end product lines. We had great growth in PET, x-ray, nuclear, CT and MR also did well at the high-end with the VCT product and the 3T MR. Tax was up 30 percent in the quarter.  

Biosciences also had a great quarter. Revenue was up 10 percent, op profit had wonderful leverage, up 23 percent, and our medical diagnostics business grew the top line at 17 percent, which is a really great indicator of both procedure growth and increased penetration of the Amersham contrast agents.  

The integration is proceeding very well. We had total year synergies in excess of our plan and we see 2005 synergies at $250 million.  

The first quarter looks great. We expect revenue to be up about 20 percent and op profit to be better than 20 percent in the Healthcare business.  

NBC-U in the center here, revenue more than doubled to 4.3 million. Op profit was up 60 percent in the quarter to $860 million.  

As Jeff mentioned, we made the successful transition of Brian Williams into the Nightly News. That's gone well. Nightly News ratings are actually up and continue to beat the competition.  

We saw great growth in cable. Stations were also very strong, up 11 percent. The network in NBC as expected was down a bit, down around 3 percent.  

Operating profit however was up about 5 percent when you take into consideration some prior year benefits and the additional programming costs that we experienced in the network. We believe this is the last quarter we'll see these higher costs.  

Universal had a terrific quarter. "Meet the Fockers" is obviously exceeding all expectations. The U.S.A. business is quite strong and the theme parks had a great quarter.  

So, you know, really, as we leave 2004 and enter 2005, we're seeing a very strong benefit of the combination that we outlined here, operating profits should be up over 50 percent in the first quarter, and we'll have reduced programming costs and continued strength in cable and film in the first quarter of 2005.  

Our Infrastructure businesses had a great quarter as well, top line up 13, strong operating leverage op profit up 30 percent. We closed the acquisition of InVision in late Q4 expanding our homeland protection product line.  

We announced a couple of very exciting strategic acquisitions in Infrastructure. We'll be adding fire capacity to our security business with Edwards and as you know, we announced the acquisition of Ionics, a really capable player in desalinization to our water business and we hope to close both of those acquisitions in early 2005.  

Water, from a financial standpoint, had a great quarter, revenue up 19, op profit up 11 as we continue to invest in our service franchise. Our backlog of CSAs in water more than doubled in the fourth quarter and total orders were up 19 percent.  

Security, which, of course, can be a little lumpy, grew the top line about 5 percent but saw the benefit of increased operating leverage with op profit up 19 percent. Security orders for the year were up 15 percent in total, and we expect this positions us well in the first quarter of 2005 in Infrastructure with revenue up about 20, and op profit up greater than 20 percent.  

Turning to the next page, it gives you a look at our Insurance businesses. Insurance revenue for the quarter was about $6 billion, that's down 3 percent versus 2003. Very clearly reflects the execution of our strategy to reduce our position in reinsurance.  

Insurance Solutions revenue was down about 22 percent. Other Insurance revenue actually grew 14 due largely to the performance at Genworth who will do a separate earnings release or has done a separate earnings release today.  

We lost about $14 million in the quarter, largely due to the reserve actions that I outlined for you earlier this morning, and the impact of reduced earnings due to last year's dispositions and the Genworth IPO.  

We are absolutely executing a clear plan to redeploy capital away from Insurance and we're going to continue to shrink the Insurance business going forward. At the same time, we're running our businesses with intensity, we're getting price and driving out cost.  

It's important to note that for the year we added a total of $1.3 [million] of net reserves to the Insurance Solutions business.  

And lastly, as we've outlined several times and said consistently we remain committed to reducing our stake in Genworth over the course of 2005. So we feel great about our position insurance as we exit 2004.  

Next page gives you a sense for Advanced Materials in Consumer & Industrial. Advanced Materials had a great quarter. The pricing actions as you saw in orders really delivered and we saw great operating leverage.  

The plastics average selling price was up 26 percent to 378 a kg. Raw materials, while still high, were a little bit better. Benzene was 360 in the fourth quarter down from 362 in the third quarter. And December was actually tracking right around 3.25 so it's too early to declare victory on raw material front but obviously we're going in the right direction.  

Silicones and quartz had great quarters with top lines up 20 percent. And total orders for the business were up 22 percent, positioning us well for the first quarter.  

We expect similar dynamic as we exit this year in terms of better pricing and better raw materials and so we're outlining revenue growth up 20 and op profit up 50 in the first quarter of 2005.  

On the right you've got Consumer & Industrial. We saw great operating leverage in C&I. Revenue was up 9 percent, op profit up 32 percent.  

The integrations have really been executed quite well. We had integration savings of $30 million in the fourth quarter that totaled about $75 million for the year.  

As you look at the pieces, appliances, you know, the high-end focus that we've outlined is really working quite well. We had 8 percent revenue growth, op profit was up better than that, about 12 percent, Monogram and Profile have done well, pricing is better, up about a half a point.  

The appliance business announced a price increases effective the 1st of January up about 5 percent, and our December orders were unbelievably strong actually. We had appliance orders up about 20 percent in December.  

Lighting continues to improve. Revenue was up 4 percent. Great op leverage, op profit up 20 percent and the Home Depot rollout that we've discussed several times is now at over 1500 stores.  

Lastly, in terms of Industrial we saw margins expand and revenue was up 11 percent. Orders were good across Industrial space, up 9 percent organically, and that has continued into January for the first couple of weeks and so appears to be pretty strong industrially.  

This segment does not have the impact of the motors game in it but the disposition of motors, of course, will impact our 2005 revenues and so as you look at our revenues next year you'll need to take that into consideration. At the end of the day we see first quarter revenue up about 5 percent and operating profit up about 10. And that's the businesses, Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: Great, Bill. Thanks.  

Just to recap on 2005, this is just what we talked about in December. We had [inaudible] revenue up double-digits, earnings 12 to 17 percent, and CFOA strong double-digits. The growth engines power.  

The Company with cash generators are seeing expanding margin rates as well so I think those are positive and then at the bottom of the page we kind of go through the earnings guidance that we've given the range for the year and this breaks it out by quarter but starts with a good first quarter with EPS growth between 13 and 16 percent. So a great outlook.  

Just the last page just refreshes in everybody's mind kind of the strategy of the Company driving good organic growth, good earnings growth, solid incremental returns, really driven by three strategic imperatives, improving the portfolio, and we feel great about how the portfolio is positioned right now.  

Continue to drive free cash flow and low cost and we've got great initiatives inside the Company and driving those things. They're going to accelerate organic growth in technology, services, customer relationships, globalization, and innovation.  

So we feel great about the Company and Bill let me turn it over to you and we will take some questions.  

BILL CARY: Great. Rachel, if you would be kind enough to open the line for questions that would be helpful.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, gentlemen. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to ask a question, please press star one on your touch-tone telephone. If your question has been answered, or you wish to withdraw your question, please press star two. Out of courtesy to all participants, please limit yourself to one question. Our first question gentlemen comes from the line of Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers.  

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yeah, good morning everybody.  

JEFF IMMELT: Morning, Bob.  

BOB CORNELL: You took the guidance up a little bit to 11 to 15 for the year. I mean just maybe could flesh out sort of what is in your mind, Jeff, with regard to the high-end of the range versus the low-end of it. What has to happen to get to the 15 percent high-end looking forward? What are some of the major uncertainties?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Bob, in the world we see today, in the economy we see today, I still think it comes back to what happens vis-a-vis the plastics inflation versus the plastics pricing, and what we see right now is reasonably positive along those lines.  

We're encouraged on some of the activity we're seeing in the U.S. diagnostic imaging. U.S. diagnostic imaging market which has been, you know, seems to be rebounding and we've seen good activity there, and then just continuous execution around the energy rebound and, you know, things associated with that. So I would say those are probably the three biggest swingers on the low-end of the range versus the high-end of range.  

I think we feel good about the momentum we have around the acquisitions. We have good solid asset quality in Financial Services and great service backlogs. You know, Service will be close to $30 billion this year and that is pretty predictable revenue, really in almost any economy.  

BOB CORNELL: A follow-up. You mentioned the Industrial tax rate was about on target, actually I think it was a little below what we thought early part of the year. I mean why 16 percent in the fourth quarter and what will be guidance for the '05 tax rates for Capital and Industrial?  

JEFF IMMELT: Bob in Q4 we had probably higher percentage of global sales in the fourth quarter, you know, that always tends to have a [lower] lower tax rate. We're still guiding for '05 at 24 to, mid 20s type of Industrial tax rate which is pretty consistent. And I think the only thing that, you know, swings it one way or the other is just the percentage of global revenue.  

BOB CORNELL: And on Capital?  

JEFF IMMELT: Capital, I'd say it's going to be high teens, 20ish, kind of what it is this year. And again the big swinger there again is the percentage of earnings outside of the United States.  

BOB CORNELL: Okay. Thanks, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Bob.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Cornell. Your next question comes from the line of Jeff Sprague of Smith Barney.  

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Thanks. Good morning everyone.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Jeff.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Jeff, can we hone in on those kind of three items you talked about, the U.S. DI office, DI market. I think Bill's comments said up 17 percent, but I think that includes kind of the contrast agent revenues. Can you give us just a little bit more granular feel on what's really going on on the hardware side, and that beginning of a ramp you mentioned that you're starting to see?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I think revenue in the fourth quarter was kind of in the mid single digits, 4 or 5 percent. You always get a little bit of price erosion there so the actual unit was probably closer to 8 to 9 percent.  

The new products, the VCT and the high-end 3T MRs are seeing lots of action right now so I think it bodes pretty well for what's going to go on in the U.S. diagnostic imaging market. We've seen good growth in Europe, decent growth in Japan and China outside the United States.  

And then I think the comment Bill made is now that we have the bioscience business and the contrast agent business, we can get a decent window on what procedure growth is and the top line for that business grew really, you know, 17 percent. So that's, you know, what we're finding is that might be a decent leading indicator for future equipment sales.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Can you also address margins? Came in very strong there. It does, in fact, look like you're hitting your synergy target. As we kind of carry that forward into '05, I mean, should we think of, we build off Q4 levels or we kind of have a seasonal dip and then build back up over the course of the year?  

JEFF IMMELT: The way I think about it Jeff, the Q4 is always the highest just because the revenue is so much higher than the rest of the year, but I think you're going to see operating profit rate expansion throughout the year, really for two reasons. One is, you know, the mix is better and the operations are better. But the other one is, is we just have a higher mix of business. The combination of biosciences with the healthcare technologies business is a higher mix of businesses.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thanks a lot.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Jeff.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Our next question comes from the line of Nicole Parent of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Morning, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Nicole.  

NICOLE PARENT: With respect to the Insurance strategy, given the solid Genworth results this morning and where the stock is, could you talk a little bit about the timing of the sell-down at Genworth? Would it be a first-half event or a second-half event?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Nicole, I think it's, you know, our plan is to sell down Genworth over time. I think it's clearly safe to say that we're going to look at doing, you know, the next round of the secondary round clearly is going to be in 2005 and, you know, I think we certainly have to let Genworth go through their processes of all the filings they need to do around the fourth quarter and things like that and then once that's done, we're going to review what the right timing is for this year. So I really can't talk any more specifically about that other than to say we like the way Genworth is trading, investors are liking Genworth. We think we're going to have a good window and we'll do it in a way that's investor friendly.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great. And one follow-up just on the Equipment and Other segment, the 175 million in the quarter was higher. I might have missed what the biggest driver in that business was.  

JEFF IMMELT: It's really Gecis, isn't it, Bill?  

BILL CARY: Yes.  

JEFF IMMELT: I mean that's where I think the Gecis transaction was recorded, Nicole.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great. Thank you.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, ma'am. Gentlemen, your next question comes from the line of Dean Dray of Goldman Sachs.  

DEAN DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Dean.  

DEAN DRAY: Could you walk us through the expectations for the buyback program? Do you expect to be in the market regularly? Will it be opportunistic? And maybe some of the metrics that you look at the terms of the pay back.  

BILL CARY: Bill, why don't I start that and then fill in, or Keith, either way. I think Dean, the way we've kind of thought about it is that it will begin probably as parent support gets down to zero which we expect to happen in the first half of the year, so I think the way we've envisioned it is, the 15, you know, that we'll do $15 billion between now and the end of '07, so, you know, that will begin at a $15 billion pace as soon as the parent support is paid down to zero. In terms of how to work -- Just in terms of mechanics, Dean, the way we've done the buybacks historically is to pretty much be in the market every day. Obviously we're after best price execution as is everybody, and we want to optimize the amount of money that we've got to spend, but we'd have a very regular program around repurchasing shares is the approach we'd take.  

DEAN DRAY: Okay. Thank you. And I hope Keith feels better.  

BILL CARY: We do, too.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Gentlemen, your next question is from the line of Mr. Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Scott.  

SCOTT DAVIS: I'll ask a tough question. Maybe it's a little bit unfair, but how comfortable are you that the old ERC, now Insurance Solutions, is now reaching a more normalized state where it's not going to continue to be a bit of a black hole?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Scott, when you look at reinsurance, you know, a lot of the, if you take a look at it, kind of 2002 and forward, the business that we've written over the last couple of years is very profitable. We've exited a lot of the more troubling parts of the portfolio. We probably exited 30 percent of the portfolio over the last two, three years.  

The adverse development that we're seeing that we're strengthening reserves on is business that was written between '97 and 2000. We're kind of running through that. Reserves as we stand today are kind of 17.4 billion, something like that, and so we're just basically, Scott, kind of getting towards the end of that cycle.  

So, you know, it's reinsurance, so you still have hurricanes, you still have tsunamis, you still have natural disasters, and we're still going to experience that, but I think when you look at the business itself we just have a lot more, I think, strategic flexibility when I look at it today versus where we've been in the past.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And I'll ask a similarly unfair follow-up, and that would be on U.S. Air. This is, I think, the first quarter that you've taken at least a material charge to shore up the reserves there and I'm guessing, I guess my question would be what is really, what's behind that charge, what makes you think, for example, that maybe the situation at U.S. Air could get worse, or are you just being conservative?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, I think we're just, we did a little bit in the third quarter and we did some more in the fourth quarter. Our intention is to kind of work with the current management vis-a-vis where U.S. Air is and from a standpoint of what they're trying to do both with the government and with the labor unions.  

We feel like we've got a good deal worked out with them and really I just think that, you know, we just are appropriately reflecting, you know, kind of where they stand and the aircraft we have. So I just think we're very well positioned vis-a-vis U.S. Air, and we're in a global market where the aircraft, you know, we've got two planes on the ground. So we, it's still a very fertile turf, let's say, to move planes around so I like our position vis-a-vis U.S. Air today.  

KEITH SHERIN: And Scott, while we won't split it up sort of by carrier here, I think it's safe to say that the lion's share of what we did in the quarter was related U.S. Air so we really feel great about where we ended the year in terms of exposure in airlines and against U.S. Air specifically.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Just a real quick nit. You took the discount rate down for the pension plan. Is there an EPS impact in '05?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, there's probably an earnings impact of somewhere between 100 and $150 million in 2005. As you saw, we also had a little bit of a benefit in terms of our overall earnings performance in terms of the portfolio itself so net-net we see pension costing us something like $0.04 or $0.05 in 2005.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, guys.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Next question comes from the line of Tony Bose of A. G. Edwards.  

TONY BOSE, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS: Thanks.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Tony.  

TONY BOSE: Hi. A question on Consumer Finance. The assets were up 42 percent, contributed value is up 17. Is that just a case of transactions closing late in the quarter?  

JEFF IMMELT: Yeah, you got it, Tony. It's a function of timing. We closed the AFIG acquisition in Australia late in the quarter and that really drove up the average assets, but we didn't get much in the way of revenue or earnings from that at all in the quarter.  

TONY BOSE: And then just on Transportation orders, they're down 26 percent in the fourth quarter and could you just give a little more color on what happened there?  

JEFF IMMELT: Yeah. Really it's just a function of timing. We had a big quarter of engine orders in the fourth quarter of '03. You can see that for the year actually though orders continued to be quite robust. Service orders obviously which are a much better indicator of profitability also continued to be quite strong.  

So we ended the year in great shape in aviation with an increase in our backlog and much broader service penetration. So it's just a function of timing in terms of equipment orders in the fourth quarter.  

TONY BOSE: Great. Thanks a lot.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, Mr. Bose. Gentlemen, your next question comes from the line of John Inch of Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks. Good morning.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, John. Hello?  

JOHN INCH: Hello.  

BILL CARY: Rachel?  

OPERATOR: One moment, gentlemen. Mr. Inch, go ahead please, sir.  

JOHN INCH: Wondering what your Industrial organic growth top line was this quarter and Jeff are we still on track to do the 8 percent for 2005 as part of your guidance?  

JEFF IMMELT: John, the, let's see, the organic growth was up about seven in the quarter. I guess organic, the total was seven, industrial was --  

BILL CARY: About six.  

JEFF IMMELT: About six. And Capital was about eight for quarter, John. And I think we're up a point in Q4 versus balance of the year and I think when you look at next year I'm feeling, we're feeling pretty good about momentum to do 8 percent organic growth going into next year.  

JOHN INCH: Okay. And then just as a follow-up, Jeff, if I go back to the third quarter, I think Keith had talked about Capital's tax rate perspectively sort of coming in in '05 around the low 20s, maybe 22, 23. You suggest it's going to be sort of high teens, 20 percent. Could you just refresh us in terms of what the dynamics are that are keeping Capital's tax rate at these levels versus its historical, and is this 20 percent number a number that you think is sustainable beyond the coming year?  

BILL CARY: You know, John, as you look at the rate, the Capital rate this year is about flat with what it was in 2003. We had indicated it was going to be right around 20 percent for the year. The biggest benefit that we experienced in the quarter was really twofold.  

BILL CARY: One was the Gecis gain was very low taxed and then the new tax law gave us a boost in terms of the tax benefits around aircraft leasing.  

That aircraft leasing benefit will continue into 2005 and so you'll see an ability for us to push the rate down a little bit in Financial Services, and I think that's why Jeff indicated today we see a rate in the high teens or right around 20 percent sort of sustainably for Financial Services going forward. It's a function of much greater and continued growth internationally.  

JEFF IMMELT: I was just going to say that, John, I think the tax rate we see is primarily due to global revenue and most aspects say that the, you know, the government wants to sustain competitiveness both in Financial Services and Industrially, so, you know, I think at least those policies will be sustainable.  

BILL CARY: One of the other thing we see in the rate is as we continue to reduce our exposure in Insurance, which is higher taxed, that mix will average the rate down, too.  

JOHN INCH: So it sounds like a long-term rate could be about 20 percent.  

JEFF IMMELT: I think in Financial Services and what we see today, I think that's not a bad assumption.  

JOHN INCH: Okay. Thanks, guys.  

BILL CARY: Thank you, John.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Gentlemen your next question is from the line of Dave Bleustein of UBS.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Dave.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: Just following up. What was the full-year adverse developments?  

BILL CARY: Billion two, a billion 250, something like that, David.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: I'd really like to understand that 3 percent GE Capital tax rate. Can you walk through the pretax amounts of all those one-time items in the quarter?  

BILL CARY: Dave why don't we do that off-line when I can take your call later today. But I mean the biggest drivers in terms of tax are the GECAS gain on a low tax basis, the reinsurance provisions drive the rate down pretty substantially, and then we continued to grow outside of the United States from a mix standpoint and then less to the GECAS base.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: Okay. Thanks. I'll catch you later.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Your next question comes from the line of Don MacDougall of Banc of America Securities.  

DON MACDOUGALL, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hey, everyone.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Don.  

DAVE BLEUSTEIN: A question first on Energy. I've been hearing just from the industry that there's a lot of overhaul activity going on out there with a lot of that installed base that went into '99 and 2000. I know a lot of your business is under service contracts, but is there a meaningful net impact for GE, or does that all kind of get washed out in these CSAs that you have?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Don, I think we always, you know again, a lot of it is under service contract, but I think we've always felt that kind of the time period of starting in '05, really in '06 and '07 is when the first heavy, you know, kind of overhaul activity is for the turbines that were installed say around 2000, commissioned in that time frame so I think it bodes well for the next few years from a service standpoint.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. Next question is on NBC, and I think you had noted it was the core network business which gets a lot of attention was down a little bit in the quarter. I wanted to get a sense for how much visibility you have on '05 with business that's fairly locked at this point, and, you know, how much has to be done to really get that visibility set up for 2006?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Don, I think the, if you just look at the network business, I always kind of try to dissect around, you know, kind of prime time versus Late Night, Today, News, things like that. So I think the, we feel good about the Late Night, the Today Show, Nightly News, that's pretty predictable, and the businesses are performing pretty well. When you look at the prime time network business scatter pricing and things like that appears to be about even, maybe up a couple percent.  

And then, you know, really if you look at how the network's performing, it has a lot to do with ratings, and ratings have been pretty close to what we expected but disappointing in that ABC and CBS have done well and so that all gets factored into kind of how the financials work around the upfront and for the balance of the year. But I think when I look across the NBC Universal platform, there's a lot of robustness in that platform that makes the numbers that Bill went through pretty achievable.  

BILL CARY: The diversity of the portfolio much better as Jeff mentioned and also we're seeing even stronger synergies than we had originally outlined and so I think all those factors give us good confidence that we're on target for what we outlined for in the middle of December for NBC, Don.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Just the final point on NBC. There is always speculation about NBC as a buyer of assets and continues to be in the press. Where do acquisitions rank on the list right now as priorities for NBC, you know, either in adding content or getting to be bigger?  

JEFF IMMELT: I'd say reasonably low, Don. I think we like, I like the hand we've got right now and how we're executing. And there's nothing we need. As I sit here today, so we'll be opportunistic as things evolve but when I sit here today I like what we have.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Thank you.  

BILL CARY: Rachel I think we've got time for just one more question this morning.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Our final question comes from the line of Dana Richardson of Argus Research.  

DANA RICHARDSON, ANALYST, ARGUS RESEARCH CORPORATION: Good morning.  

JEFF IMMELT: Good morning.  

DANA RICHARDSON: Your guidance shows operating leverage for first quarter of '05 but you didn't get any operating leverage for the fourth quarter, and I was wondering how things changed. What's the difference there?  

JEFF IMMELT: I think we absolutely saw operating leverage in the first quarter of this year. We had, you know, revenues up about 18 percent and net earnings were up about the same amount.  

Our margins in the quarter, X Energy, actually went up from about 13.5 percent a year ago up a little over a full point to the mid 14s in the fourth quarter, too. So I think the biggest swing you see is the Energy business but, we feel great actually about the operating expansion that we've got going.  

DANA RICHARDSON: Okay. I was talking more sequentially about the fourth quarter of going into the first quarter.  

JEFF IMMELT: Well, there's always seasonality as well in the first quarter relative to the fourth quarter and if you look sort of year-over-year the operating profit margin for the first quarter shows expansion as well.  

DANA RICHARDSON: Okay, thank you.  

BILL CARY: Great. Well, listen, thanks everybody for taking the time to listen to our call today. Obviously all the materials that we've discussed are available on our Web site. Early next week we'll post the transcript of today's call and as is consistent with our past practice for our global investors we'll have it out there in five languages as well. A replay of this call will be available later this afternoon, and the call in number is on our Web site. So again, thanks very much, happy New Year everybody, and we'll talk to you soon.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your participation in today's conference. This does conclude your conference call and you may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050204e11l0005m
  


 HD
 Q3  2004  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
12,212 words
   PD
8 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the GE third-quarter 2004 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Rachel and I will be your conference coordinator today. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.  

I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Bill Cary, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed, sir.  

   TD
BILL CARY, VP INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Well, good morning and welcome, everybody. Joanna and I are pleased to have the opportunity to host this call for our third-quarter results. Remember that this is a webcast, so please visit GE.com/investor and refresh your browser. You will find both the slides and the press release there from this morning. You can print the slides and follow along as well as follow online.  

Please remember, as always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes and we would ask that you interpret our comments in that light.  

This morning, we will cover our current quarter performance for the third quarter, also our outlook for the fourth quarter and total year 2004 and of course, at the end, we will allow time for Q&A.  

This morning, we are joined by Jeff Immelt, our Chairman and CEO, and Keith Sherin, our Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. With that, I will turn it over to Jeff to kick the call off.  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. Three months ago, I started off by saying that it was the best economy for GE businesses that we had seen since 2000 and that strong economy in the world of GE has continued in the third quarter. Our fundamentals remain strong. We have 8 of 11 businesses posting double-digit earnings growth. Excellent orders growth, equipment up 29 percent, flow up 13 percent, the service revenue was up 19 percent. Our growth platforms were up 25 percent. Organic orders growth were in excess of 10 percent. The energy business profile is as planned, so we continued to deliver on our commitments there.  

Our balance sheet of Financial Services remains very strong. We have excellent asset quality and utilization of price dynamics are improving. Cash flow again was a very strong performance, up 32 percent, with industrial cash flow from operating activities up 25 percent.  

We love the integrations and the acquisitions that we announced about a year ago and both biosciences and Universal performing better than planned. We delivered 38 cents per share despite some headwinds. We had more than $300 million impact in insurance because of the hurricanes and clearly, without that impact, we would have been several cents above the 38 cents. So again, excellent momentum going into the fourth quarter and 2005 and we are narrowing the EPS guidance to the high end of the range we talked about earlier in the year at $1.57 to $1.60.  

Now, a lot of that is driven by winning in the marketplace and we had some great customer wins in the third quarter. Led by Energy, we had a very good quarter in the energy business. It broadened our mix of businesses through acquisitions and growth in China. We had 29 large gas turbine orders in the quarter and the wind business was very strong, both with the passage of the PTC and about an $800 million wind order in Canada.  

Our healthcare business continued to introduce many new products in both the CT product line and the ultrasound product line, and that gives us good momentum towards the end of the year.  

The Consumer Finance business continued to expand on a global basis with key acquisitions in Korea and in Russia, as well as expanding our U.S. base. Commercial Finance had an excellent quarter of asset growth and acquisitions.  

The Transportation business had again a wonderful quarter with some key customer wins and the locomotive business is really booming.  

NBC Universal, in addition to the acquisition activity, had a great Olympics and we continue to improve our multiyear agreements with some of our key customers.  

The infrastructure business continued to have good NPI launches and good momentum in the water business and security business. The advanced materials business executed on three pricing actions and we have got great pricing momentum going in the fourth quarter.  

Our strategy in consumer and industrial of launching high-end products while continuing to reduce base costs fueled I think good economic performance. These are the wins that helped us really see the business propel forward.  

Now, I'm going to turn it over to Keith Sherin, who is going to take you through some of the specifics on the business and some of the great stories across the Company. Keith?  

KEITH SHERIN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Jeff, thanks. You talk about momentum and the next page is about our orders. Our orders continued at very strong levels in the quarter. On the left side is major equipment, which is our energy , aircraft, healthcare, and rail equipment orders. You can see up 29 percent year-to-date through the third quarter. In the quarter alone, they were up 64 percent, so you can see the acceleration on the major equipment side.  

In the middle is our flow business, advanced materials, consumer and industrial infrastructure up strong double digits both third quarter year-to-date and in the third quarter. That is ex acquisitions and dispositions, so that is on an organic rate here. Then on the right side of the services business, which continues to be fantastic, up 15 percent year-to-date through the third quarter and up 10 percent in the quarter itself driven by the Energy business. Just a terrific performance in terms of orders. Overall orders for the company up 27 percent versus last year in the third quarter. We continue to build the backlog; the major equipment backlog is up over $1 billion from the beginning of the year, so nice momentum in the orders area.  

We talked about the portfolio of quality. Also the main indicator for us on the left side of this chart is for our consumer finance receivables and our commercial finance receivables, delinquencies over thirty days past due and you can see that from the third quarter of '03 to the third quarter of '04 year over year they're down; delinquencies are down in both consumer and commercial, reflecting our great collections effort and just an improvement across the board in portfolio quality. We continue to benefit from the economic environment.  

On the right side, utilization also strengthened. You can see it's up to 84 percent across our equipment management business, is the Penske, rail and trailers. You can see the utilization numbers and the growth we've had year over year. So not only is the portfolio quality in pretty good shape but the economic activity around utilization continues to improve also.  

We've talked about the highlights of a couple of the growth initiatives. You know, services is such an important part of the portfolio. Product services revenue in the quarter at 6.3 million was up 19 percent. We had $2.3 billion of new customer service agreements that were added to the total CSA portfolio. Now we are up around $73 billion. Our engine spares average daily order rates were fantastic in the quarter at 14.1, up 34 percent and just broad strength here in the services business, which is great. Energy up 19, healthcare up 15, infrastructure up 15, and I mentioned the strength in aircraft.  

On the right side of the growth platforms -- and up to $2.2 billion of revenue, up 25 percent. Even organically, ex acquisition, disposition up 14 percent. Oil and gas very strong driven by services. Water was up 12 driven by strength in capital equipment in the water market. Telemundo programming had great growth, up 23 percent, and healthcare ITU is up tremendously. So the growth initiatives here, both in services and in our growth platforms, are performing very well.  

Now, in the third quarter, before I jump into the numbers, we did have some unprecedented headwinds. The four hurricanes in Florida certainly were unprecedented and in the quarter and we have got an estimate of the losses in the quarter for that. In addition, benzene, the key raw material that provides input to our plastics business, the price per gallon is at three times the ten-year average and that obviously is impacted by the high oil prices but we had to deal with those headwinds in the quarter and the strength of the portfolio helped us to offset those impacts.  

Transportation had a fantastic quarter. I will show you the numbers. Commercial and consumer finance had a great quarter. Our flow business performance is very strong and both Universal and Amersham are delivering above what we had in our Pro Forma, so that is a sign of excellent momentum as we go into the fourth quarter here.  

So when you look at the third-quarter consolidated results, the financial overview, revenues of 38.3 billion, up 15 percent. Industrial sales at 21 billion up 27 percent. Organically, ex acquisitions and dispositions and foreign exchange up 12 percent. We have a nice, strong topline performance. Financial services revenue at 17.5 billion up 3 percent, somewhat impacted by the insurance dispositions last year but the contributed value on both our Consumer Finance business and Commercial Finance business, our net revenues were up 15 percent, which is great. Net earnings of 4.1, up 1 percent.  

Now, you can see the footnoted variances on earnings and EPS here exclude the impact of the 2003 third-quarter FIN 46 accounting change and net earnings, ex pension, was up 3 and EPS reported -- EPS itself was 38 cents, down 5 percent, but reported up 6 percent when you do include the impact of that accounting change.  

On cash flow, we had a great quarter -- 9.7 billion of CFOA year-to-date, up 32 percent. On the top right, we just want to put a little walk together on earnings. Basically last year if you look in the third quarter, we made $4 billion of earnings without any impact of that accounting change.  

Operations are up 5 cents, $500 million, up 13 percent. We are down $100 million around after-tax in pension year-over-year in the third quarter and the insurance sell-down, selling FGIC and Edison last year and the impact of the Genworth IPO this year is a $300 million drag. So, earnings are up from 4 billion on around to 4.1 billion. Then the tax rates in the quarter, the third-quarter industrial rate ex GECS was 20 percent and the GECS rate was 21 percent and we are on track for the year-- total year rate of 20 percent in both industrial and GECS, no change from the guidance we gave in Q2 around the tax rates. So, our financial performance reflects a solid contribution by the business operations and I'd like to take you through some of the details of that now.  

The next page is just the segment profitability, which we put out on the schedules. I will take you through the details and a few pages but Energy performed as expected. We had lots of great performance from both the growth engines and the cash generators and as we mentioned advanced materials was impacted from the inflation and insurance is down from the dispositions on the hurricanes and then equipment and other services is very favorable in terms of operations. So, broad-based strength, 8 of 11 businesses up double-digit and I will show you the details of those in a few pages.  

Cash continues to be a terrific story for us. Year-to-date up $9.7 billion, up 32 percent. You can see that those pieces -- industrial cash flow through three quarters at 7.6 million is up 25 percent. We've got solid performance on delivering cash earnings plus improving working capital. Then the GECS dividend is up from 1.3 to 2.1 billion. This includes the proceeds we got from 50 percent of the disposition of Genworth, so it includes $1.3 billion from Genworth disposition. For the total year, we are expecting to be on track for the up 15 percent and CFOA in total.  

We returned $6.3 billion to shareholders. Our dividend yields were about 2.4 percent and the 'parent-supported' debt reduction plan is going ahead of plan and will be down under $4 billion by the end of this year on that plan versus our commitment to be at $5 billion.  

On the right side is the cash walk to tie our cash flow to the balance sheet. We started with 1.7 billion at the beginning of the year and at the end of September, we have 1.6 billion of cash at the bottom. We had the CFOA at 9.7 from the left side. We paid our dividends and a little stock repurchase. We had the stock offering, which we used to do the acquisition of Universal. We bought our plant and equipment and the change in debt is down $2.6 billion dollars. Basically in the acquisitions of Amersham and Universal, we acquired about 2.9 billion of debt and most of that debt is in total has been paid off through the third quarter. So, strong cash flow up 32 percent and on track for the great year, up 15 percent.  

Here is a look at our fourth-quarter outlook by business. You can see that the energy results revenue actually is going to be between 0 and 5, growing slightly in the fourth quarter and the segment profit down 10 to 20, the results are clearly improving versus the trend third quarter year-to-date. So we're starting that glide path on Energy. We continue to have great performance in the other businesses in the growth engines and the benefits from the acquisitions in both healthcare and NBC Universal. In total, 8 out of 11 businesses up double-digit and a continued impact in insurance from the disposition. So our fourth-quarter EPS guidance now is 48 to 51 cents. On EPS, it's up 7 to 13 percent in the fourth quarter and we will continue to have strong revenue growth around 15 percent in the quarter.  

So now I will take a through some of the business pieces. I'm going to start with Transportation. Transportation team had a great quarter, revenues of $3.8 billion, up 20 percent, and operating profit at $773 million, up 28 percent. Basically, the revenue up over $600 million was driven by the services performance up over 400 and then the rail business was up about $160 million. Those same dynamics drive the op profit growth. We had tremendous spare shipments, $14.3 million a day. That's versus 10.2 a day last year, so we're comparing to the period when we had both the impact of SARS and the Iraq war last year impacting some air travel but that is a great spares rate for us.  

The shipments are on track. Commercial engine shipments were down slightly. Military engine shipments were up strongly and locomotives, as I said, were up three times over last year, so the op profit up 28 percent is driven by the services, partially offset by commercial engines and slightly higher program spend.  

So in the fourth quarter, our revenue expectation is up 5 to 10, the op profit growth of 10 to 15. Basically service has a tougher comparison in the fourth quarter because the spares did start to pick up last year after the SARS and the Iraq war impact. We ran it about $12.6 million a day-- and right now, we still expect to do about $14.5 million a day in the fourth quarter, so a very strong outlook for Transportation.  

On the right side is Energy. The Energy business continued to deliver as expected and as we communicated. We had a strong orders period in the quarter, broad-based orders growth. The total orders for Energy were up about 20 percent. You can see it was driven by services up 19, equipment up 23, as Jeff mentioned 29 gas turbines sold outside the U.S. in the quarter and wind had a nice quarter, up 78 percent, $225 million of orders. The revenue was down 5 percent, which is about $200 million. That's all driven by Energy products. It's down about $350 million, driven by fewer gas turbine units, 29 units in '04 versus 44 last year, and lower terminations. You can see the termination number there.  

Wind was also lower, as the production tax credit was delayed. That was partially offset by strong services growth and great oil and gas growth, both up about 20 percent. The op profit down 35 percent was driven by the same dynamics as revenue -- 15 units less and lower terminations in the Energy products business, offset by higher services growth.  

So in the fourth quarter, when you look at our dynamics, 0 to 5 percent growth in the topline, op profit 10 to 20 percent down. Right now, we see Energy products having about 25 gas turbines versus 35 last year. The terminations are down about 25 million and last year, we had 27 million, so it's basically flat in terminations, almost 0, $2 million terminations estimate in the quarter. Services in oil and gas growth are going to be pretty good. The FTC passage does give us a nice win momentum. As I said, they had a nice orders quarter and Jeff mentioned the big order they got up in Canada and there is a lot of momentum there. We are on track for the '04 op profit estimate that we have of $2.8 billion and we're looking pretty good on the outlook for '05 op profit of $3.2 billion. So, performing as expected, doing a great job of managing the bubble down.  

Next up is infrastructure. They had a good quarter. The topline growth was driven by the water business. Revenue up 8 and op profit up 11. Total orders in the business were up 13 percent. Water was up 20 and FANUC was up 25 and as we said, strong revenue growth really drove the quarter revenues in the water up 12 percent, orders were up 20. They are investing to build the services model, both some investments in new products and in geographic expansion. It's nice to see the service initiative growing there. We've got a $50 million CSA backlog from nothing, so we are really making progress in the marketplace on the services model.  

The security business, our new product introductions are getting some real traction. Homeland protection and the Iontrack productline are up double-digit, up 10 percent. Total security revenues in the quarter were up 4; orders were up 7. We did have some uneven perimeter security orders. It's a little lumpy but on a year-to-date basis, the security orders are up 22 percent and we really feel pretty good about where we are with security and sensing and FANUC had a strong double-digit op profit growth in the quarter.  

Our fourth-quarter dynamics here in this business -- revenue up 10 to 15 and op profit up 15 to 20 with pretty broad strength across the product lines.  

On the right side, consumer and industrial had another great quarter. In terms of revenue, appliances was up 5 percent at both retail and contract. We picked up some share at the high end through the Vs (ph) on Monogram and Profile units. Our industrial revenue was up 10 percent, so both commercial and residential strength, and lighting was up 1 percent. As we started back in Home Depot, we rolled out products to 1000 Home Depot centers and we're going to be in 1,500 by year end. The team has just done a great job on integration and consolidation synergies -- 50 million savings year-to-date, 20 million in the third quarter alone. We really have a similar profile on the revenue and the op profit line for the total year for consumer industrial business -- in pretty good shape.  

Next is advanced materials. They had a tough quarter but we are making real progress on recovering inflation. Here are just the dynamics in the business on this page. On the top left, you can see the price of benzene and the dramatic rise we faced in the third quarter. On the top right, you can see the plastics resin average selling price and also that's quarterly volume in thousands of metric tons. You can see the price was up about 10 percent in the third quarter at 3.33 a kilo. Volume was up 5 percent, so the volume was pretty strong in the quarter. Americas was up 11; Europe and Asia were both up single digits. We had auto up 10 percent. Business equipment, building and construction, telecom, packaging all up over 5 percent. Media was soft but when you look at the outlook for the fourth quarter, the price assumption basically executes the actions we have already taken and the volumes at the current rates that we are seeing. So we've got a pretty nice outlook for the fourth quarter. When you look at the revenue or the price and the volume dynamics and that inflation dynamic in the top left, you go down to the bottom left box on earnings and for the entire advanced materials business, here is kind of what the tale of the tape is for both the third and fourth quarter.  

You can see the gap on price versus inflation in the third quarter goes from a negative $62 million in the fourth quarter to a positive $50 million, so we more than recover some of the inflation we have had with the pricing actions we have already taken. We get a terrific result in operating profit. We are going from 130 million op profit outlook in the third quarter to a 250 plus in the fourth quarter. You can see the revenue in the op profit piece for the fourth quarter.  

So, we've got to continue to be vigilant on driving the price action. We're counting right now on the benzene dislocation remaining and so far, the economic activity and the volume has been very strong, so we're looking for a very good quarter here in the fourth quarter and the team is ready to deliver on that.  

Next, financial services. On the left side, consumer finance. They had a very strong quarter. We had great asset growth, up 25 billion, driven by both core growth of about 12 billion and a little bit from foreign exchange, mostly the yen, and -acquisitions of about 4 billion. Then net income -- they delivered $680 million, up 86 million, up 14 percent. Obviously, the earnings were impacted by the contract termination and settlement with Home Depot that we had last year in the third quarter that doesn't repeat and that is why the earnings growth is a little less than the asset growth but overall a great quarter. Globally, we had terrific performances. Europe and Asia were both up double-digit; we had strong core growth in the UK, Eastern Europe, Scandinavia. In Asia, Australia had great core growth and terrific loss performance. Even Japan was up double digit, driven by lower losses and productivity. In the Americas, we had very strong core growth across every part of the portfolio but that was more than offset by the Home Depot termination from last year.  

We also had some higher advertising and marketing and new product introduction expenses and asset quality is very strong in the consumer business. Delinquency was down 12 basis points year-over-year, so our fourth-quarter profile right now is very strong, as the global business continues to grow and we're past the Home Depot comparison, so we've got a great outlook there.  

On the right side is commercial finance. They had another great quarter. Obviously here assets were up 11 percent, driven by strong core growth and acquisitions. Net income was up 18 percent to 1.246 billion. If you look at that, it's really driven by the commercial lending and leasing assets up 9 percent. We had very strong midmarket volume in the quarter. Excellent integration of the acquisitions adding $16 billion of assets and 110 million of earnings. And some great new platforms in there.  

If you look at the results by business for the quarter, which are in the schedules, you'll see that the real estate business made 228 million in the quarter; that was down 11 percent. We didn't have a repeat of the sale of the Pro Logis and some Regency shares last year but overall, we had great results partially offsetting that in the rest of the portfolio.  

Aviation services at 76 million was down 22 percent. We had higher provisions and increased reserves of about 70 million in the quarter. During the quarter, we also had about 130 million of impairment, which is about flat with last year on some old 737s and MD-80s that were in the portfolio. The strength really came from the commercial loans and Lease portfolio. Earnings there were up 33 percent both from the acquisitions I mentioned and lower losses. Commercial equipment finance, our corporate financial services, our vendor, energy, healthcare and fleet were all up strong double-digits. When you look at the portfolio quality with non-earnings down and write-offs down, we've got a great fourth-quarter outlook. So operating very well and on track for another quarter of solid double-digit income growth in commercial finance.  

Next is insurance. Insurance is really down because of two factors. First, we had our divestitures that we talked about the last year and second, we had the impact of the hurricanes in our Property and Casualty business. So if you look at the net income here of 120 million, it is lower than our previous guidance, principally driven by the hurricanes. Genworth put out a press release today and they've scheduled an earnings call for October 22 to be in line and communicating about their business with their industry peers. Our third-quarter earnings from Genworth would be about $114 million. Other insurance is down about $200 million driven by the '03 dispositions and then finally insurance solutions, which is the new name for ERC, was a 39 million loss in the quarter versus 120 million of profit last year. That's driven by the hurricanes, which I will talk about on the right side. Obviously, this was an unusual hurricane season and the record losses are at levels that haven't been seen before. If you scaled up the losses from Andrew even in 1992 in today's dollars, the estimates of the four hurricanes hitting in the same quarter are about $25 billion more than what we had even in the worst storm previously. We haven't had four storms hit one state in this century in more than 100 years and the impact of the storms on us is 308 million after-tax versus last year. So, we did have some cats last year and the year-over-year impact is 308.  

Now, that was partially offset by continued improvement in the rest of the business. We've had good pricing; we've had great underwriting discipline; we have had great diversification in what the team has been going after in terms of business, and we were able to partially offset but overall, a 39 million loss in the quarter. So, our fourth-quarter dynamics for insurance are as we've previously expected. We're going to continue to have the impact from not having the earnings of the businesses we sold last year. In the fourth quarter, we will have the impact of selling 30 percent of the Genworth business and the op profit expectation right now is down about 50 percent in the quarter as we previously thought. So, that's the insurance outlook.  

Next, I am going to go to healthcare and NBC Universal. Both of these businesses had obviously great results in the quarter. When you look at the Vs, obviously impacted by the addition from the acquisitions. Let me start with healthcare. Revenues of 3.3 billion up 43 percent and op profit up 31 percent, overall great results. If you break it down to healthcare technologies, which is the former GE Medical systems business, revenues were 2.7 billion, up 15 percent, and op profit of 432 million, up 11 percent. Then in the quarter, the healthcare technology revenue is up 15 percent. Really, we were pretty pleased by the rebound in the Americas DI business. Revenue was up 8 percent, MR was up 25 percent and we are really excited about our new CT product launch.  

Globally, if you look in the healthcare business, ultrasound had a good quarter, up 8 percent driven by their 4D and Logic book sales. MR was up 7 percent; we've got 73 Ts (ph) on order and that business is performing very well. PET was up 41 percent. CT was down 20. Orders were down 5 in the quarter but we do have some bright spots. The U.S. was up 6 and Europe was up 14, so most of the decline in orders was driven by Asia but as I said, we've got a nice outlook with the volumetric CT that we just introduced. And service was up 14.  

Now, on the other side, if you look at Amersham business, which we call biosciences today, if you look at the biosciences results -- 650 million of revenue was up 7 percent and $81 million of op profit was up 10 percent but you have to include the fact that we have $40 million of noncash amortization of intangibles in there, so it's really closer to 65 percent growth in op profit before the intangible amortization. They just had a great quarter. The medical reagents business was up 18 percent. Protein separations were up 2 but the orders were up 10 and the integration is on track. We delivered more than $20 million of synergies in the third quarter. We're on track for $100 million this year and 250 million in '05. It's just that we love how the two businesses are coming together and performing. We're really excited about everything we see in the combination. Fourth-quarter dynamics look great. Op profits should be up 15 percent plus as biosciences continues to be ahead of plan and the synergies expand going into the fourth quarter.  

Now, on the right side, we've got NBC Universal. This obviously is a great quarter. The revenues more than doubled with the Olympics plus adding Universal. So 4.1 billion is up $2.6 billion. Now, if you again break this down and you go back to NBC, NBC revenues were about $2.6 billion, up 70 percent and the op profit was around $390 million, which is down about 9 percent. But you've got to take out the impact of the Olympics here. If you look at NBC ex-Universal and ex the Olympics, revenue was up about 10 percent. We also made some nonrecurring investments in the quarter for the programming, the owned programming that we're showing in the quarter for news, for the conventions. If you adjust for those, the op profit was up about 15 percent on the NBC business itself.  

So, we had an outstanding Olympics. The team did a great job. We reached 86 percent of the U.S. households. The primetime viewership was up 13 percent versus Sydney and the programming provided a great lift for the other NBC programs, you know. Today, Nightly News, other shows that we had were up 25 percent versus pre-Olympics, so a tremendous performance by the team.  

The cable properties are really performing very strongly. USA, SciFi, Bravo and Telemundo are all delivering ratings upside. Our cable op profit is up strong double-digit in the quarter. The news business has performed very well and the fall line-up is off to a good start. We've a 3.9 primetime rating with the key demo adults 18 to 49. Again, some pretty tough competition but that is where we thought we would be. We still have more to go in the season but we like our position and the integration is on track. We delivered 55 million of synergies in the quarter, which is above the plan and we're on track to exceed the 100 million we thought we would get in '04 and be sure to hit the 300 million we said in '05. So we have a great performance here with the two teams coming together. The fourth-quarter dynamics look very strong solid op profit growth 15 percent plus. We really like the movie slate that the team has put together for the fourth quarter and as is the case with the healthcare, the synergies do continue to expand as we get into the fourth quarter here.  

With that, I'm going to turn it back to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: Great Keith. I'm just going to wrap up, first by talking about the 2004 total year outlook. We end the year with a lot of momentum. You can see the fourth-quarter revenue ought to be up around 15 percent and earnings up between 12 and 17 percent, which gives us a total year again at the high end of the range of $1.57 to $1.60. When you go to some of the drivers that we had identified earlier in the year, the deals are done and performing well; Energy is on track, Financial Services in great shape. We are in the right markets. Service momentum is strong and a good global position. The one headwind that I think we have offset but has been a challenge has been the raw material inflation that has impacted the advanced materials business but we think we can more than offset that. Great momentum going into 2005.  

When you look at 2005, again we feel like we are in a great position with a lot of visibility to see earnings per share growth of 10 to 15 percent, CFOA growth of 10 to 15 percent and improvements in incremental return on invested capital, so good tailwind in 2005. 85 percent of the earnings, more than 85 percent of the earnings in growth engines with lots of visibility and 15 percent of the earnings in cash generators where we really see a more favorable economy.  

I think there's seven things that I think you should like about the Company when you look at the fourth quarter and then 2005. First ,improved cycles in both aviation and energy, two of our biggest businesses, will be expanding both at the same time for the first time in really almost five years. So, that is a real strength for the Company. Second, full-year benefit of NBC Universal and Amersham -- again, we like the way these businesses are coming together and we've got good momentum going into 2005. Third, a great service's backlog, strong orders throughout the year, big wins in the installed base, high margin rates and again great momentum going into 2005. Fourth, a great cycle for consumer and commercial finance, good asset quality, good asset growth and again we think good momentum.  

I'd make another comment about consumer and commercial finance -- we plan to pay off all the 'parent-support' debt some time in 2005 ahead of plan and at that point ,we plan to take the GECS dividend back up above 40 percent, so very strong cash flow and balance sheet there. Fifth, good point in the economic cycle. I think Keith showed you some of the numbers on advanced materials. We think it's a good time in that business. Sixth, enter 2005 with better pricing. We've had price increases across a number of our businesses and we think that gives us good momentum next year. Lastly, strong cash generation -- you've seen good cash flow in '04; that's going to continue in '05. With 'parent-supported' debt paid down next year, we think we've got lots of cash flexibility in 2005 and beyond. Again, I think we've got good visibility in 2005 and real strength and momentum going into next year.  

Just to summarize, the economy that we see and the economic fundamentals remain very strong, very strong orders and asset quality. The Company is in great shape. We hit 38 cents a share despite a very unusual hurricane season and pressure and raw materials but clearly we could have exceeded the 38 cents except for those unusuals. Acquisitions are delivering ahead of plan. Earnings at the high end of guidance at $1.57 to $1.60 and on track for double-digit earnings growth in the fourth quarter of this year and 2005 with very excellent growth initiatives to focus on the future with high visibility. So, the Company is in great shape.  

Bill, now I'm going to turn it back to you and we would be happy to take some questions.  

BILL CARY: Great Jeff. Thanks very much. Rachel, if you could go ahead and open the line for questions that would be great.  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Jeffrey Sprague with Smith Barney.  

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Good morning, everyone. Jeff, I was wondering if, on a bigger picture basis, you could address some of the inflationary pressures. You know, oil -- I mean, we can see kind of the obvious impact as it's hitting advanced material and see what it's doing to the airlines. Just from your broad view of the world, what do you see kind of bubbling up through the system in terms of inflationary pressures? Are there other places in the portfolio beyond advanced materials that you're getting price or starting to push more actively for price?  

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, I was in China last week and I would say that China, although it slowed in the third quarter versus the second quarter, is still very strong and will continue strong in the fourth quarter. That again puts pressure on steel, on materials as well as oil. Our expectation is that oil will stay relatively high and what Keith said is we're not counting on any break in benzene. The fact is that steel and materials, while we're seeing some inflation, it's relatively modest vis-àvis our total cost base. We are getting pricing beyond advanced materials; we are getting pricing for the first time in the appliance business, the industrial business. Lots of the equipment management businesses are way up over last year. So, I would say across a pretty broad array of our product line, we are getting pretty good -- having some pretty good success with pricing.  

I think the one piece of inflation that's going to be last into 2005 is going to be around oil. I think some of the other materials may settle out but oil is one that we may have with us for a while.  

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Maybe I could slip one more in. The GECS dividend going above 40. I think, kind of on the normalized basis, it was actually kind of 35 over time. Does that higher rate reflect some strategic imperative or is it just simply the lower capital intensity of the business with insurance kind of shrinking as a percent of the total?  

KEITH SHERIN: No, I think, Jeff, it's the latter. I think strategically what we said is that we were going to create a systemically higher returning financial services business as we have exited insurance and invested into consumer and commercial finance, and that's what we plan to do. So, I think it gives us a lot more capital flexibility. You are right; it's been about 32 percent and we plan to take it above that.  

JEFF IMMELT: The other point about oil I think is when you look at the GE portfolio and you look at the type of products and services we sell, we've got a lot of opportunities. Maybe we could talk about that too.  

KEITH SHERIN: Jeff, the way I was going to phrase it is if you look at higher oil prices, it impacts our plastics business but more than let's say 10 or $12 billion of our industrial product sales are in products and technologies which help make our customers more energy-efficient, whether it's new gas turbines, whether it's new engines, whether it's new locomotives and things like that. So, the big picture on oil for us is higher oil prices isn't all bad.  

OPERATOR: David Bleustein of UBS.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Good morning, everyone. Jeff, looking out to 2005, you mentioned a 10 to 15 percent earnings growth target. Can you walk through the key elements of either your business plan or the external environment that would make the difference between the high end of the range and the bottom?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, David, the way I would look at it is the growth engines, okay, the 85 percent of the Company are in excellent shape with great momentum. I think, if you look at energy returning to double-digit growth, great transportation momentum, both healthcare and NBC Universal benefiting from acquisition integration. Tremendous infrastructure strength, both organic and inorganic opportunities. In commercial and consumer finance, you've got fabulous momentum in those businesses. Then I think some of the wild cards are more along the lines of advanced materials from the standpoint of can we keep the pricing up and get a break on benzene. We're not counting really on any different economy than what we are seeing today.  

So I think, if some of the flow businesses do a little bit better, we will be at the high end but look, we're going to be very strong in that range without any improvement in the economy at all. I just think that's based on the visibility and the momentum of the Company.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay. Could you give us any thoughts on timing of further divestiture of Genworth?  

JEFF IMMELT: We really can't, David. We're going to look next year and see what the market conditions are and kind of make the decision that is in the best interest of Genworth shareholders and the GE shareholders. I don't know. Keith, would you add anything to that?  

KEITH SHERIN: We're locked up through the end of the year. Then we have to do an orderly sell-down below 50 percent some time 18 months from the beginning of the deal. So, sometime in that range, depending upon market conditions, in an orderly way we will continue to look at selling down.  

OPERATOR: Nicole Parent of Credit Suisse First Boston.  

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, guys. I guess one question on medical and I don't want to nitpick because the results were good, up strong double-digit. In the second quarter, you had thought the business would be up 40. It was up only 30. I think you did see a nice acceleration in the diagnostic imaging. Is it just mix with CT getting worse that would cause profitability to come in at the lower end of double digits?  

KEITH SHERIN: Nicole, my read on that one was the CT business was slower than probably we thought a quarter ago, not from a standpoint of losing market position or anything but I think the industry is really geared up for the 64 slice CT scanners and so I would expect we make up some of that distance in Q4.  

NICOLE PARENT: Okay. On infrastructure, I guess a similar question. Q2 you had thought the business would be up 20; it was up only 11. Keith alluded to some lumpiness in orders. I guess, following up, could you give us an update on InVision?  

KEITH SHERIN: Let's see. What I would say is the security business remains strong through the third quarter. Orders are up over 20 percent. There is a little lumpiness, particularly in some of the homeland security business and some of those slipped from the third quarter to the fourth quarter. So that was the main driver there.  

On the water side, we're seeing great revenue growth and that business is converting to more of a service model. As that occurs, I think we will see even more revenue and margin enhancement in the fourth quarter.  

On the InVision side, we have received regulatory approval. We continue to work with both the government and with the InVision board in terms of completing the acquisition. InVision is going through its own process with the Justice Department and until that concludes, we won't complete the acquisition, but it is our intent. We like the business; we like the way it fits and as that gets resolved, it's our intent to close that transaction.  

OPERATOR: Brian Langenberg with Langenberg and Company.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG, ANALYST, LANGENBERG & CO.: Thank you very much. A couple of things -- it's really about margin. Number one, the equipment in other -- there was an up-tick and I would mention there's some unrecurring profit in there. Could you just give us the bigger pieces in there? Just coming back to Nicole's question about the healthcare margin, you gave us an explanation which makes some sense but did it really contribute to -- you know, when I look at it sequentially, sales were down 40 million, which is timing obviously, but there's a lot of decremental. We had a $80 million sequential drop in profit. Was there some kind of accelerated spending on restructuring and integration in the third quarter versus the second quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: Let me start with equipment and other. You're looking at the third quarter. The segment profit was up favorable, up about $200 million. In that segment, we include the results of our GE Equity business, which continues to be in runoff, and that business was up about $45 million with lower losses.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: So it's plus 45 sequentially or year over year?  

KEITH SHERIN: Year-over-year, Brian. That's what the V is in the segment profit tables. Equipment services businesses, you know, the Penske and the TIP and the MOD and the rail and all the businesses under our hub were up about $40 million. They had just tremendous -- as you see those utilization charts and you see pricing firming, they've got great operating results. We had some '03 losses of about $40 million that were in the GE Capital Other segment related to the Heller acquisition that didn't repeat and we had lower costs in the GE Capital corporate segment. So those are the main pieces of some of the drivers there. Great business performance by Art Harper and his team and the equity business run-up improving.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: How about one-third recurring, two-thirds, it's a nice year-over-year, to be simple about it, with three pieces of 40 here in round figures -- (multiple speakers).  

KEITH SHERIN: I think the equity probably continues for a while. I think that may be a better way to look at it.  

In terms of healthcare margin, I think you're looking at the seasonal pattern of just the difference between the second quarter and the third quarter for us. Really, if you look at the Vs year-over-year, they are pretty similar in the second quarter and the third quarter. So sequentially, the second quarter is stronger and the third quarter is a little softer for us in total but no drop off from a business margin perspective other than what is going on just seasonally.  

BRIAN LANGENBERG: Okay, I'll take a closer look at that and we'll (indiscernible).  

OPERATOR: John Inch of Merrill Lynch.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH & CO.: Thanks. Good morning. So, if we plug in the 9.7 billion of cash flow, it looks like the year-over-year cash was down a couple of hundred million in the quarter. But then you've given us 7.6 year-to-date in industrial. I'm wondering what is the third-quarter industrial cash flow and how does that compare to last year?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes, third quarter -- if you look just on the third quarter alone, the industrial cash flow was 2.6 billion, which is up 21 percent. Then the GECS cash flow in the third quarter was .3, -- 300 million. Last year we had $1 billion, so we had no repeat of last year's third-quarter special dividend from some of the dispositions, so in the quarter, industrial was very strong, up 21 percent, and in total, it was at 2.9 billion, down about 8 percent because of the no repeat of the special dividend.  

JOHN INCH: Without having the details of cash flow yet, Keith was there something specific accounting for the 21? Was it working capital or something like that?  

KEITH SHERIN: It's converting net to cash plus an improvement in working capital.  

JOHN INCH: Just as a follow-up, I think, if we've done this right, services in healthcare were up about 7 percent in the third quarter. I can't remember if the PACS business is included in that. I think you said PACS was up 63. Just with respect to healthcare services, is that right?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yes. Services was up 14 and it is driven by PACS, which was up about 45 to 50.  

JOHN INCH: Okay, so -- (Multiple Speakers) -- ex PACS, is there something about the services business in healthcare this quarter that is a little bit slower?  

KEITH SHERIN: Core service was up 10, so again, that number of PACS is big but it's not a big part of the total.  

OPERATOR: Don MacDougall of Banc of America Securities.  

DON MACDOUGALL, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, everyone. On the materials business, Jeff, you've been successful in getting some price through. I think a lot of that has been from a raw material push. I guess what I am wondering is if it's your sense that the market has tightened up enough such that if there was a break in benzene, whether you would maintain those prices and the spreads would widen or whether your customers would be able to extract that price back again?  

JEFF IMMELT: You know Don, in the economy we're seeing right now, the polycarbonate industry is about sold out. I mean, it's in above 90 percent the capacity utilization with nothing else coming on until the second half of '06. So, the polycarbonate industry, which is the vast majority of what is in this number, is pretty attractive right now.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. Another question -- on ERC and the $300 million that you took on the hurricanes, I would assume that there is some budget or reserve for hurricanes in an average year. So, is the $300 million a gross number or a net number?  

KEITH SHERIN: 300 million after-tax is an impact of the hurricanes. Now, in the quarter and during the year, we do assume that we have some CAT contingencies. There is probably $60 million of contingency but again, that's not something you can plan for; it's just a space holder, you know. Yes, it's probably I would say 60, Don.  

OPERATOR: Deane Dray of Goldman Sachs.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning. In the comment about the economic fundamentals remaining strong for the Company the way you see the economy, could you comment on September, in particular the short cycle orders, both on a total but more importantly on an organic basis?  

KEITH SHERIN: Let me make sure I get the right numbers here for you of what we're going to talk about. If you look at what we put out, even in total unreported, it's going to be 13 percent, the appliances, the industrial, the lighting and the advanced materials, so that's going to be similar to what we have been doing. Then ex everything, it's up 9 percent in September, so we continue to see the same pretty good economic activity that we saw in July and August and generally each of the businesses has been able to maintain that performance.  

DEANE DRAY: Then when we look at one of the data points on the equipment management side, when you hit 84 percent, at what point does that historically start triggering more of a capital spending cycle?  

KEITH SHERIN: I think we've used a line of 80 generally both on industrial utilization and on equipment utilization. We're seeing tremendously strong demand in that business. I mean, pricing is up. We're de-fleeting. The demand for older units is very strong. So, I think you are starting to see some of that but you'd have to go get somebody who's really in that field to give you whether they are doing CapEx. We are seeing tremendous strength.  

Deane Dray - Goldman Sachs - Analyst  

Yes. Is there anything geographically there of interest? Is it more from Asia or are you seeing it broad-based?  

JEFF IMMELT: Deane, I think, if you look at the transportation industry, it's strong in every part of the country. I mean, rail loadings are way up. Trailer loadings are way up and there is just underlying a fair amount of economic activity right now.  

OPERATOR: Dave Tusa of J.P. Morgan.  

DAVE TUSA, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning. Just kind of a macro question -- what are your hiring plans over the next year and a half and specifically within the U.S., anything changing there?  

JEFF IMMELT: We've continued to hire technical resources, service people, sales and marketing people year-over-year. We have seen some of our factories that are particularly strong see increases. So again, we never really talk about hiring plans in aggregate but in pockets of the Company, we have hired people this year and we see that continually going into 2005.  

DAVE TUSA: I got you, thanks. Just one quick one -- provision for losses on financing receivables -- could you just remind me what's going on there? It was down year-over-year and down sequentially on the income statement.  

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. If you look at the dynamics around the portfolio, our delinquencies were down. Our write-offs are down; the write-offs are a big factor in that provision obviously. Our non earnings in the commercial business are down and so when you look at all the factors about the portfolio quality, that just leads to a lower provision. Overall though, I think if you look at the reserve coverage, so if you take the total GECS reserve coverage from the third quarter last year, it was 2.48 percent and now that's up to 2.5 percent and the total reserves are up from 6.1 billion to 6.5 billion. So the provision is down based on the portfolio quality, delinquency, lower losses and better non earnings and commercial, but the overall coverage is up slightly and the total reserves are up.  

DAVE TUSA: So this trend on the income statement should kind of continue on a sequential basis kind of going forward here?  

KEITH SHERIN: You have to go quarter by quarter of what the portfolio delinquency is but right now, the portfolio quality is very strong. The other thing is as you look at the organic asset growth in the fourth quarter, you know, we are going to obviously put up provisions for that organic asset growth.  

OPERATOR: Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER: Good morning. Thanks, operator. There was a tax bill passed I guess a couple of weeks ago that I think had some positive line items in there for you guys. Can you just comment a little bit on how that impacts you, going into '05?  

KEITH SHERIN: Is this the one today?  

SCOTT DAVIS: I thought it was a week or two ago.  

KEITH SHERIN: The ETI (ph) replacement?  

SCOTT DAVIS: That's correct.  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, you know, we are going to wait and see with the final bill comes out but as you know, we do get some benefits from the ETI tax legislation. Are you talking about the PTC?  

SCOTT DAVIS: No, not the PTC, the overall tax bill.  

KEITH SHERIN: Just trying to clarify here. We do get some benefits from the current ETI. Right now, my understanding is that the ETI structure will be phased out over two years, so we don't anticipate any changes really in it or impact on us. We will have to wait to see what the final bill is to see whether there is -- you know, I'm sure there is going to be some pluses and minuses but basically the bill was focused on it benefiting U.S. manufacturing and export competitiveness and we will participate in that because that's the type of activity that we are great at.  

SCOTT DAVIS: I understand. We can maybe get into that a little bit when it's finally passed. As far as the total dilution, when you think about the Amersham, Universal and Genworth deals, just to give us a little bit of a feel for kind of apples-to-apples potential earnings growth here. What did the dilution cost you in the quarter? How do you see that progressing in the next couple of quarters?  

KEITH SHERIN: We have said that -- you want to use all three, Amersham, Universal and Genworth. We said that the impact was going to be about 5 cents this year. That is pretty consistent with where we are right now. Probably the Genworth is probably 3.5 cents to 4 cents and the Amersham, Universal is probably about a penny because we do have incremental earnings offsetting partially the incremental shares. So in total for the year, it is about 5 cents and it's basically the way we laid it out, Amersham and Universal probably a little better and it ought to be accretive next year.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Accretive next year? Fair enough. Thanks, guys.  

OPERATOR: Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers.  

BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hi, everybody. Thanks. I must say, Jeff, the 7 points you make are impressive. The big picture -- people have avoided the big picture so far. How about a comment on rebalancing the Company, where your view is? I mean, you made a lot of big moves this year. Where do you see industrial versus capital in the next couple of years? What the plan might be? Any actions?  

JEFF IMMELT: Bob, I think, as we leave this year going into next year, Financial Services will be between 45 and 50 percent of the Company. I think, if you look at the two big -- what we have accomplished in the big portfolio transformation is we basically created a faster growth industrial company and a higher returning financial services company. So, I think you are going to continue to see Genworth sell off and stuff like that but we like the commercial and consumer finance businesses. I want to keep investing there. But on the industrial side, we've got lots of great platforms that we can grow both organically and inorganically and I think we've got a set of industrial businesses that can grow revenue in the high single digits and earnings ahead of that. So again, I think both of those moves together really create a more valuable company. I think, Bob, I don't really -- when I look at '05, '06, '07 and out beyond, I don't think we have to do anything major to execute on all the financial guidance we have given everybody.  

BOB CORNELL: That actually is my next question. In the growth outlook for next year, you know, the double digits, the 10 to 15, is that ex-everything or is that excluding any potential portfolio changes like the possible further insurance divestiture?  

JEFF IMMELT: No, that includes an anticipated sell-off of the next tranche of Genworth, so that includes everything -- (Multiple Speakers) -- reported results year over year.  

BOB CORNELL: A final question is how much on tax rates for next year?  

KEITH SHERIN: We obviously have a little lower-than-expected rate this year. Right now, we are anticipating the industrial rate to be somewhere between 24 and 26 percent and the GE Capital rate between 22 and 24 percent. That's the way we are modeling our year and that's the way we would anticipate next year being and we don't have any reason to think it's outside those ranges right now, Bob.  

OPERATOR: Jeff Bentig of Jefferies & Company.  

JEFF BENTIG, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Good morning, everyone. A couple of quick questions -- in terms of the raw materials, are you hedged on benzene prices and at what price level?  

KEITH SHERIN: We do not hedge benzene directly. There's a very, very small forward market on that and it's very tough to get any of our volume in there. So, we do do some very smart buying in Europe and tolling of Nafa (ph) and we are working on some other capacity additions to build a hedge for ourselves but right now, no.  

JEFF BENTIG: Okay. In your model, it looks like you are planning on increasing your price above and beyond what the raw material price input cost is going to be for you. I was just wondering a little more clarity on why you think you will be able to do that.  

JEFF IMMELT: Well, the capacity utilization, Jeff, is very high. So, if you go back over a 40 year history of this business, that is kind of the way the model has worked in the past. Again, as long as the capacity utilization stays above 90 percent, we will be able to hang onto the pricing for a little bit longer as the raw material solidifies.  

JEFF BENTIG: If I can switch tracks real quick to NBC, although the Olympics was very well-received and had great ratings, overall revenues seem to be a little bit below your expectations mid quarter. Has your new lineup, Joey, etc., been performing up to your expectations and/or is there -- where did that sort of shortfall come from?  

JEFF IMMELT: The ratings we had forecast going into the year we are about on those ratings if you look at the fall lineup but we're number two and we don't want to be number two, so we don't -- that's not a position we would like to be in at prime time. Other than that, the cable services revenue is strong. I would say the stations is actually weaker -- from a revenue standpoint is probably weaker -- the weakest part of the portfolio because we're not -- our stations are not in the regions that have big political spend in this quarter. Movies is about on plan. The theme parks is a little bit ahead of plan. The cable services are ahead of plan. The prime time is almost on plan, just a smidge below, and stations are probably a lot lower than what we had though they would be.  

OPERATOR: Tony Boase of A.G. Edwards.  

TONY BOASE, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS & SONS: Thanks. I wonder if you could give a breakdown between NBC and Universal as far as pre-combined numbers. So what was NBC? What was the Olympics? What was Universal? Then what was the minority interest?  

KEITH SHERIN: I mentioned NBC -- 2.6 billion and 390 million of op profit. Universal, 1.5 billion and 140 million of op profit. If you look at the Olympics, they're about 927 million of revenue in the quarter and the impact on just the production and showing of the Olympics was about a $38 million pre-tax loss. Those are the main parts in the quarter. But if you look at the Olympics -- (multiple speakers) -- total year of the Olympics, because of the affiliate support that we get in each of the quarters, the total Olympics is probably 7 percent operating profit type of business for us, $1 billion of revenue totally for the year.  

TONY BOASE: What was minority interest? What was the impact of that?  

KEITH SHERIN: 86 million.  

TONY BOASE: The 140 for Universal, that includes the synergy or not?  

KEITH SHERIN: Synergies are spread across both portfolios but you know, it's the same in the healthcare business. It's getting to the point where it's hard to separate some of these things. We are trying to give you a feel for how the businesses are performing but the synergies are coming in both businesses basically. That's just the way it is as we integrate these operations.  

BILL CARY: Rachel, I think we've got time for just one more question.  

OPERATOR: It will be just one moment, sir. Stephen Hodson of HSBC, sir.  

STEPHEN HODSON, ANALYST, HSBC: Thanks. Good quarter, Jeff, Keith, and everybody. Your cash position and your balance sheet are in great shape, looking forward, and I don't need to remind you that it's been done with big acquisitions, debt restructuring, recession, etc. I just wondered if you could talk a bit, looking at '05 and beyond in fact, about how you're going to maintain your returns on capital and growth profiles so you don't just start to look like a stodgy company with -- having trouble reinvesting your cash.  

JEFF IMMELT: I think it's a great question, Stephen. I think the way to think about the Company, going forward, is we just have a lot of cash flow generation. Once the 'parent-supported' debt is paid down, we've got a lot of cash flow generation. It's a priority of ours to, once we've done the deals, to get the return on total capital back up above 20 in the next few years. But the way I would look at it is we will continue to grow the dividend more or less in line with earnings and then with the rest of the cash, we are going to be -- we've get lots of investment opportunities, both organic and with acquisitions. I think there's a potential to start looking at a buyback, so it's going to be a combination of dividend, buyback, and we just have a long list of good, high-quality re-investment opportunities, both organic and inorganic. You know, you read earlier this week about clean coal investments. Those are kind of organic investments and then we've got a decent set of acquisitions out there still that we plan to continue to build with the Company.  

But the good news is I think is that we just have tremendous flexibility with the balance sheet as we look at '05, '06, '07.  

STEPHEN HODSON: Great, it's a high level problem. If I could touch on one other thing then on the insurance business? The 300 million -- what have you done differently in the last few years or how can we be assured that you are not going to see additional reserves or charges some time in the future like we saw in the industry a few years back when pricing had been too low and reserves had been too low. What have you done differently to make sure you're managing your exposures, etc.?  

KEITH SHERIN: The whole focus at our reinsurance business, which as I said we call insurance solutions today, has been to re-underwrite the book from top to bottom and Ron Pressman and his team have taken apart every single line of business. They write -- every single decision is made based on what we think our return on equity is going to be based on the risk we're taking. They've done a great job of reducing risk by isolating how much exposure we have and aggregating the exposure across the entire underwriting portfolio. So Ron and his team have really been focused on that since day one and that's all they have been working on. It is reinsurance and we do have some volatility from things like the caps that in some ways we've mitigated but when you have four storms in one quarter, there isn't a lot you can do about it. But that whole team has been focused on disciplined underwriting and great information management to ensure that they understand the ROE they are taking. If the market softens, we exit pieces of business and if the market strengthens, we look at increasing our share of the business. They've got a great profile and system to do that today and the whole team is focused on it.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks. It looks great, everybody.  

KEITH SHERIN: Thank you.  

JEFF IMMELT: Again, I just want to thank everybody for coming this morning. The Company is in great shape. I think the strategy we have outlined over the past couple of years -- we've get high visibility in the execution. Fourth quarter in 2005, I think we've got great momentum and again we see really broad-based strength throughout the Company. So with that, Bill, I'll turn it back to you.  

BILL CARY: Great, Jeff, thanks very much. Keith, thank you and thanks to everybody for dialing in this morning and for your great questions. We very much appreciate your interest in GE. The earnings presentation and materials that we've gone through this morning will remain available on our Web site. A replay of this conference call will also be available this afternoon and the call-in number will be posted on the GE investor Web site. In addition to that, we will post transcripts early next week in five additional languages for our global investors.  

With that, thank you very much for your time and attention. Joanne and I will be available this afternoon to take further questions as they arise. So thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference call. Thank you for your participation today. You may now disconnect.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
gemeds : GE Healthcare | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041022e0a80005l
  


 HD
 Q2  2004  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
13,404 words
   PD
9 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the GE second quarter 2004 conference call. My name is Nicole and I will be your conference coordinator for today. At this time all participants are in a listen only mode. We will be facilitating a question-and-answer session towards the end of this conference. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please press star followed by 0 and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder this conference is being recorded for replay purposes. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Bill Cary, VP of Investor Communications. Please proceed.  

   TD
BILL CARY, VP INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO: Thank you, Nicole. Good morning, everybody, and welcome to our second quarter earnings conference call. Joanne and I are very pleased to host this call. Remember this is a webcast, so you will be able to see the slides on our website at  www.ge.com/investor. Please refresh your browser see those materials. The press release was out this morning and hopefully you have that. That's also on our website. Again, if you don't see it, please refresh. The slides are there.  

You can download and print and follow along. Please also remember that as always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements, of course, can change as the world changes and we'd ask that you interpret them in that light. This morning we'll cover our current quarter performance, our outlook for the third quarter as well as 2004 total year and allow an amount of time for Q&A at the end of the presentation. With that we'd like to go ahead and get started and I'll turn the presentation over to Jeff Immelt, our Chairman and CEO, and Keith Sherin, our Senior Vice President and CFO. Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT, CHAIRMAN & CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO: Great, Bill, thanks and good morning, everyone. Just to start off with an overview on the second quarter, it was a good quarter for GE. The major portfolio actions completed and look great. We did a lot in the quarter. We closed the Amersham transaction in our healthcare business April, NBC/Universal was created in May and we launched the Genworth IPO also in May. These were all transactions we announced last year, very consistent with our strategy and the integrations are on track and the businesses look great. The underlying fundamentals of the company remain very strong. The flow orders were up substantially, service orders were extremely strong at 29%. 9 of 11 businesses grew double digits.  

Very good cash performance. CFOA is up 61% year to date. Credit quality remains strong and we're very well positioned in Commercial and Consumer Finance, all our financial services businesses, from the standpoint of the interest rate environment we see today with match funding, volume being up and asset appreciation. So we feel great about the positioning of the company and the economy that we're experiencing right now. Initiatives are also driving growth with services up 13%, our global revenues are up 12% and the growth platforms are up 23%. Basically we're executing on the strategy, the fundamentals are strong and we feel very good about the positioning of the company.  

Just to go through some of the wins we had in the second quarter, and these also are included in the press release, in the energy business we announced plans to acquire the ChevronTexaco Gasification Project, this allows for the development of clean coal. We think it's an exciting new technology for that business. We also have experienced good orders around the world as witnessed by the Jenbacher order we received in the Ukraine. In healthcare we closed the Amersham transaction, the biosciences business is exceeding expectations. We saw good orders growth in PET and Ultrasound China, Healthcare IT, and the Alzheimers diagnosis was approved by CMS for PET which we again think will expand the PET market. Transportation had a great quarter. The GEnx selection for the 7E7 Dreamliner was a real highlight.  

We received a substantial order from the Navy on the multi missions maritime aircraft and locomotive orders were also very strong. Commercial Finance added assets through acquisitions of IKON at Boeing, completed financing for China Eastern Airlines and just is seeing a good environment for asset growth and acquisitions. Consumer Finance continues to grow around the world, we completed an acquisition of WMC Finance, which is a specialty finance business in the U.S. Again we've seen great organic growth in Consumer Finance. NBC/Universal was completed in May. We had another great ratings quarter and had a good share position of the up-front and from an encouraging standpoint very good growth in our cable services led by Telemundo.  

Infrastructure continued to grow. We've seen good growth from government projects at the TSA and good global growth. We also expect to complete our InVision acquisition in July. Advanced materials saw good order rate growth in China and also launched new applications and consumer industrial add pretty good quarter. The highlight there was really our high-end appliance unit sales grew by 21%. Lots of highlights and a good quarter overall. On the next two pages I just want to give you kind of a panoramic view, a comprehensive view of GE in terms of the different businesses that we're in and the kind of volume growth we're seeing.  

Starting in the top left the big project business and healthcare, energy, aircraft engines and rails, second quarter year to date orders up 14% versus flattish a year ago, seeing good growth on a global basis there and some pretty good momentum. The flow businesses really represent some of the shorter cycle businesses like plastics and silicones, appliances, industrial, some of the infrastructure businesses and we continue to see good order rate growth and good economic strength in the second quarter. Services is really been a great story for us. Service growth of 29% in orders, we're seeing a nice uptick in the aircraft spare order rate, good growth in the healthcare business. Energy continues to do a good job not just in the power generation side but also in oil and gas and some of the other business segments. So services is a pretty good barometer for how customers are using products and we're seeing good growth there.  

And utilization rates in our equipment management business are up six points year-over-year to 83% and this just gives you a sense of some of the broad strength that we're seeing there. Whether it's long cycle or short-cycle businesses, whether it's product that are being sold for consumption or services that are being sold that really reflect customer usage, we're seeing really broad economic growth that continues throughout the quarter and building good backlogs for the future. So we feel good about that look. From a financial service standpoint this also gives you a sense of some of the asset growth in credit quality, Consumer Finance saw 20% growth in assets, delinquencies continued to be reduced and non earning assets are stable. And in Commercial Finance with some of our mid-market customers asset growth of 8% and, again, delinquencies, losses and non earning assets are down.  

Very strong balance sheet, very strong growth in financial services, so I think in the world of GE what you're really seeing is pretty broad-based growth, really the broadest we've seen in several years. Just going to the growth initiatives that are things that we've talked about consistently. This gives you a sense of the excellent growth we've seen in revenue and services up 13%, this is 25% operating profit type of businesses, growth in CSA commitments to $72 billion, the engine spares up 38%, healthcare revenue up 19%, infrastructure up 18%, so very broad-based services growth. And the growth platforms we've talked about for the last few years are now running at almost a $10 billion run rate, up 23%, we've seen 35% operating profit growth in those segments, good growth in water, security, healthcare IT and Telemundo. So, again, broad-based growth and so the growth initiatives are performing extremely well in addition to kind of the core fundamentals.  

So now I'm going to turn it over to Keith Sherin and let Keith take you through the financials for the second quarter. Keith.  

KEITH SHERIN, CFO, GENERAL ELECTRIC CO: Obviously we had a lot of great strategic actions that we completed in the quarter and I thought before I jump into the financials I'd take you through the dynamics of the pieces. On the left side we talk about the events. Obviously we closed Amersham. That has an impact on us, we did issue more shares. In addition we have the purchase accounting that goes with the acquisition and we had the value of the in-process research and development and write that off in accordance with current accounting.  

We had a fair market value of the inventory and some of that flows through the income statement in the quarter. And then we also consolidated the earnings for most of the quarter and I'll show you what the impact of that is financially in a couple of pages. We closed the NBC/Universal, the impact of that on us is we also had some more shares as we provided proceeds to Vivendi. We consolidate the earnings for about half the quarter and it's 20% minority intrastructure(ph), so GE gets 80% of Universal and Vivendi and the other shareholders, basically, get 20% NBC. So I will show you how that works financially. We're thrilled with the launch of the Genworth IPO. We sold 30% of the company and we received capital, about $2.5 billion. There was a loss on the sale. I'll show you that, it's about $336 million after tax.  

And we have lower earnings for about a third of the quarter when we didn't own that 30%. Finally we also had some IRS tax settlements that I'll take you through that resulted in higher earnings from both tax and interest. These are the significant events in the quarter and I'll take you through the impact of these on earnings but I just wanted to outline what the types of impacts you're going to see are. Now, the most impressive part for the quarter was certainly our execution of the strategy and the deals that Jeff has talked about but the second most impressive thing is the breath of the performance during the quarter. If you look at the business results for the quarter we got just great operating performance, 9 of 11 businesses up double digit. With the exception of energy and insurance we've got great top-line growth and very strong bottom line results as you look at these V's year-over-year.  

Energy is performing as expected. The biggest driver of the decline in profit continues to be no repeat of the termination payments that we received in 2003. And then insurance, this number does include the impact of the loss on the IPO and I'll show in a few pages that ERC had a pretty good quarter. As you look at the total quarter results I think the real message here is the strength of the portfolio and broad-based performance of the business portfolio. So the next page is the financial overview. The revenues at $37 billion on a consolidated basis up 11%, our industrial sales of $20 billion were up 13, and the financial services revenues were up 8. The contributed value which takes out the impact of interest rates is up 19%, so good strong growth in our net revenues for the financing businesses, the Commercial and Consumer Finance.  

Net earnings of $3.9 billion were up 3% and we show you that ex-pension, which is a noncash charge year-over-yea, net earnings were up 9%. EPS at 38 cents is what we're reporting and I'll show you the details of that on the slide. On the press release that we put out you saw our consolidated tax rate is down about 7 points versus last year in Q2 and I'm going to take you through the taxes on the next page. Finally cash, which we're having a great year from a cash flow perspective and I'll cover that detail in two pages. So very solid business performance and let me talk about taxes next. I'm going to update the tax rate outlook both for the second quarter and the year on this page. On the left side I've got the GE industrial rate excluding GE Capital Services and on the right side is the financial services rate.  

And if you look at what I've included here, for the industrial businesses, tax rate, we gave a range at the start of the year of 24 to 26% and now our current estimate for the total year is 20%. And so in the second quarter, the rate is about 17% to bring the first half to that total year estimate of 20%. We had two events during the quarter that reduced the effective rate from that 25% in the first quarter, which was in that range, to the 20% total estimate for the year. One of them I've talked about previously, the one on the bottom, which is the tax benefits resulting from the NBC/U merger from previously amortized goodwill at NBC. But the second one is during the quarter we entered into a comprehensive settlement with the IRS resolving issues open in our tax returns from 1985 through 1999.  

As part of that settlement we entered into a closing agreement with the IRS on two items. One was the 1997 tax-free split-off from Lockheed Martin and the second one was a tax loss we had in 1998 from the sale of a Puerto Rican subsidiary. So under APB 28, which is the accounting guidance for income taxes, we're required to record the tax provision for the current quarter so that the year to date rate equals the projected full-year rate. That results in the 17% rate for Q2 and gets the first half actual to a 20.3% rate. These events did happen in the quarter and affected the rate and I'll show you the money, the financial impact to that in the next chart. On the right side is financial services. In the past we had given a range of 20 to 22%. The first quarter was 21.8%. We had one event in the quarter, basically, that affected the rate versus what we had planned. The Genworth IPO, the loss on that IPO and the resulting tax impact decreased the GE Capital reported tax rate about four points in the quarter.  

And so similar to the industrial side, we have to take that impact into account for the total year estimate and it takes our total year estimate now down to 20%. Without the Genworth tax rate impact, the quarter in financial service would have been consistent with Q1, we would have been at about 21.5% up almost six points and the reason for the growth in the income tax rate in the financial services business is our growth and earnings are coming from higher tax both U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. So without the Genworth loss we would have been up about 6 points. With the Genworth loss the rate is 17.5 points, is still 2 points higher than last year in the second quarter, so. This page shows the rate impact, and I'll cover the dollar amounts on the next page, but for 2005 modeling we don't expect these to repeat, obviously. These are unique events for this quarter and the current planning is a mid 20s rate on industrial and a low 20s rate on financial services as we go forward.  

We've looked at operations, saw the broad-based strength, we talked about the deal impact and the taxes, now I want to cover the second quarter using the chart that we sent out with the earnings release and just talk about the EPS dynamics. Starting at the top we had actual reported EPS of 38 cents a share from last year. And when you look at the portfolio operations, ongoing operations, including energy, which is down more than $200 million, we got 4 cents growth from operations, up 11%. So even including the impact of the energy decline we've got tremendous performance. We've got 2 cents decline in noncash pension, which was as expected, and we got a penny decline from the dispositions of the insurance businesses that we did last year that you're familiar with, FGIC and Addison(ph) and Auto, right in line with what we had forecast. So 39 cents before the impact of any of the deals.  

Now, in the quarter the deal impact from all three transactions, Amersham, NBC/Universal, and Genworth, is about a 1 cent reduction in earnings. Basically Amersham and NBC/U give us both incremental earnings with more shares and then the Genworth IPO gave us lower earnings from having 30% in the hands of minority shareholders for about a third of the quarter. So the net impact of those earnings changes and the share changes is a 1 cent decline. That's a little better than we thought, some of it from timing, some of it from the deals, and the 38 cents is above the guidance we gave previously of 37 cents for the quarter. Then down on the bottom are the second quarter events. If you look at it we've got three things outlined here. First is the Genworth transaction impact.  

We had previously forecast that when we put out the original prospectus for the IPO that we thought we could have somewhere between a 0 and $200 million after-tax gain. The transaction actually in the quarter is a $336 million loss and that's obviously a lot worse than we expected. I'll talk about the Genworth IPO in a few pages when I get to the segment details but that's the first item that we had to deal with. The second one is the Amersham deal-related costs and that's the in-process research and development write-off and the inventory fair market value effect flowing through the income statement, that's about 163 million after tax. That's slightly better than we had expected. We had previously communicated that could be around $300 million and it's 163 million. Finally there's the tax settlements.  

I had previously communicated the NBC tax impact, including the NBC tax impact plus the tax settlements and some of this is in taxes and some of it's in interest. That's slightly better than we expected. The total impact in the quarter between taxes and interest is about 428 million but if you look at the three events in the quarter it's actually a $70 million negative in the quarter but because of the rounds on earnings per share it didn't change the 38 cents. So the three events did not exactly offset each other, actually 70 million negative in the quarter and that's just the way it worked out. We're very happy with the quarter, executing the strategy, getting the three deals closed and meeting our commitments. Let me turn to cash flow. 61% obviously is a great result.  

It is driven somewhat by the GE Capital Services dividend which is a little bit of timing. We included $1.3 billion, which is 50% of the proceeds from the Genworth IPO, in our second quarter cash flow. We dividended that up from GE Capital which is consistent with what we did with the insurance dispositions last year. Last year we had about 1.6 billion of disposition dividends and they occurred in the second half. So some of the GE Capital cash flow from operating activity and some of the 61%, obviously, is driven by timing. But if you look at the industrial side we're up 27% at the half. We're having a great year. We've got $700 million of benefits from working capital reductions and we're on track for a $1.8 billion total year reduction in working capital and about a 25% total year positive V on cash flow from operating activities from the industrial side.  

So we returned $4 billion to shareholders with dividends in the stock repurchase and really what was tremendous about having the strong cash flow we were able to hold our net debt., which is our debt minus our cash balance, our net debt has been held flat versus the beginning of the year, including the fact that we assume $2.5 billion in net debt in the Universal acquisition and the Amersham acquisition. So this strong cash flow has really helped us to grow the company as well as maintain an incredibly strong balance sheet. Our parent support reductions, the extra debt at GE Capital, that reduction is on track. It's at about $6.3 billion at June 30th and just the dividend reduction alone will help us to meet our commitment and we will beat the $5 billion parent support number by the end of the year. On the right side it just shows the cash balance.  

We started the beginning of the year with $1.7 billion in cash, we ended June with $2.8 billion in cash, so a $1.1 billion increase in cash. The way we got there, we got the cash flow from operating activities, the 6.8 billion you see on the left side of the chart, we paid our dividends of 4 billion. We did have proceeds from the stock offering that we did to fund the Universal acquisition which is in the acquisition/disposition line and we had plant and equipment and other software expenses that we made. Then the change in debt is down $1.4 billion. So it's the increase in the cash balance and the reduction in debt of $1.4 billion that offsets that acquisition debt that I talked about.  

On track for the total year of 10 to 15% cash flow from operating activities growth and along the way we strengthened the balance sheet through the parent support reductions and the additional equity that we've issued associated with the transactions. Feel great about the balance sheet. Now, when you look forward and you look at the third quarter operations, it's a similar profile for the second quarter. You can see the broad strength from both the growth engines and the cash generators. We feel very good about that. And if you look at energy, I'll talk about it, but the revenues obviously are less negative and the operating profit is a little less negative than we have in the second quarter. We still have one really tough quarter to get through and one quarter that still includes a significant amount of termination payments in comparison to last year in the third quarter.  

I'll show you the details of those. Overall revenue will be up strong on the growth engines, about flat on the cash generators. We're reconfirming the third quarter EPS guidance of 37 to 40 cents and he total year EPS at $1.55 to $1.60. Let me cover some of the segments now, I'll take you through some of the pieces. This is the format we've been using with you. We'll cover the second quarter and then give you some feel for the third quarter for the different segments. First up is transportation. They had a great quarter.  

You look at revenues up 15%, that's 13% volume, half a point of price, and a point of FX. They got great operating profit, up 18% and you can see the drivers. The spare sales momentum has continued, commercial shipments of $13 million a day, up 30%. Military shipments up strongly double digit. Commercial engine shipments were up very strongly, up 11%. Military engine shipments were also up very strong and the locomotive business had a great quarter with very strong locomotive shipments and operating profit up 25%. The aeroderivatives business was down slightly and the commercial engine(ph) mixed in some of the growth that we had but overall the profit and the performance of transportation was terrific. Third quarter dynamics was very similar.  

We expect a profit of 15 to 20% growth. We're seeing the spares continue at that same second quarter rate, at $13 million a day that would be up about 27%, and we expect strong rail and military unit shipments. So looking forward to another great quarter in the transportation business. On the right side is energy, Revenue down 12% and operating profit down 40, volume was down 12 and price was down about 3 and FX was up about 3, so if you look at that it's really a volume story that we've been talking about, it's driven by the gas turbine business and the terminations. We shipped in total 29 gas turbines versus 42 last year and the energy products business is almost all of the revenue and profit decline. Revenue is down over 600 million and margin is down almost 400 million driven by those fewer turbine shipments and, you can see here, $200 million less in terminations quarter-over-quarter.  

We had great services strength, revenue up 12%, op profit up 10%, nuclear and oil and gas also had strong quarters. When you look forward at the energy business and you look at the profile you can see, I showed you the third quarter where revenue's down slightly, less negative than the second quarter, and op profits a little less negative than the second quarter. We have better revenue in the third quarter with higher services growth so you can see the order rates up 32%. That will start to come in in both the third and the fourth quarter. We've also got oil and gas growth and then it's the last quarter of big terminations, we had about 170 million of terminations in the third quarter last year and then that declines dramatically in the fourth quarter, less than $50 million of the comparison. Then in the fourth quarter we got a 0 to 5% revenue swing, so you can see us slowly landing the energy business flattening out, the outage cycle in the fourth quarter is going to be big and we've got a big quarter in win in the fourth quarter. Without that terminations repeat and with the revenue improvement we get down to 10 to 15% kind of decline in operating profit. The business is on track for 2.8 billion profit for the year and they continue to meet all the commitments that we've worked out with them and communicated to you so feeling pretty good about where energy is. Next is the financial services, both Consumer and Commercial Finance had great quarters. If you look at the Consumer Finance business on the left side, 20% asset growth, 17% earnings growth, up almost $90 million in net income. Net revenue was up 26%, so we're getting good financing spreads, performance. This is driven by core growth. The assets growth in core was up 13%, it's driven by great productivity. Acquisition growth was up about 8 points, some of the deals were Conseco and GC Card in Japan.  

That more than offsets the impact of the contract termination and the securitization decline we had last year with Home Depot in the second quarter which will also impact the third quarter. If you look at it by region Europe had a great quarter, up almost 18%, Asia was up 58%, and that includes Japan up 30% which is a nice performance, they've got lower losses in Japan so we're seeing a nice performance there with focus on underwriting, credit quality, and the Americas was down 17% as I mentioned driven by that contract termination and reduction in securitization. Third quarter dynamics, double-digit net income growth, again, continued solid global operations. We're comparing last year to the toughest quarter where we had about $115 million of positive from the termination of the securitization impact in the third quarter last year. So another good quarter, though. On the right side is Commercial Finance. Tremendous quarter.  

Asset growth up 8% driven by both acquisitions and core growth. Net income is up $140 million to 975 million, up 17%. We've got just great performance across the board. If you look at this by business, the commercial loans and leases portion of Mike's business, Mike Neal's business, was up 23%. Some of the V's in there are vendor financial services business was up 59%, our energy business was up 35%, healthcare was up 18, corporate financial services up 22, commercial equipment finance was up 12, so just a great broad spread of growth in the core of Commercial Finance segment. And then the aviation business was up 5, principally driven by lower losses. And real estate was up 9 with some comparisons last year to some big gains from Regency sales.  

The asset quality is very good, non-earning assets are down about $400 million year-over-year and write-offs were down, losses were lower in the quarter, and securitization was down. So third quarter dynamics pretty similar, 10 to 15% net income growth driven by, again, continued strong asset quality and the growth from acquisitions. Overall financial services add great, great quarter. Next is healthcare and you can see the total results here are great. They do include the impact for most of the quarter of including Amersham but we're really just getting started. We have consolidated this for one period but we're just getting started on the whole integration and the performance overall at 40% revenue growth from 33% op profits, terrific.  

Amersham itself contributed about 680 million of revenue in the quarter and 130 million of operating profit, that's a 19% operating profit rate and that includes $40 million of costs for both intangible amortization and deal integration expenses. We're off to a great start here. The healthcare technology business, which is the former GE Medical Systems, had revenue growth of about 13% and operating margin growth of about 10% in the quarter, so the core underlying business performed. You can see the strength in the business under the highlights. The orders growth was up 42%, that does include Amersham, but healthcare technologies alone was up 16. The revenue in Ultrasound was up 12, PET was up 33, PAX(ph) and Healthcare IT continue to perform. The healthcare IT business was up over 60%. Services operating profit was very strong.  

The pressure point here is the USDI market, it does remain soft and you can see that in the quarter. Our CT and MR sales in the Americas were down 10% and 8% in the second quarter so that's the pressure point here but the breadth globally is helping, excellent global growth and China is up 20%. Our third quarter dynamics are pretty similar, operating profit up about 40%. We are starting to see the Amersham synergies and we'll get a full quarter impact of Amersham, obviously, and we'll probably have revenue in the technologies business somewhere between 15 to 20 and operating profit up about 10 and the total will be up 40% on revenue, as we showed, and about 40% on operating profit. I'm going to turn it back over to Jeff and let him talk a little bit about the integration update.  

JEFF IMMELT: The integration is going well. We started from day one with an integrated team, this is an area that clearly I'm spending a lot of time, strong management team in place with Bill and Joe Hogan. As Keith said, the biosciences business, which is what we call the old Amersham business, is delivering. The businesses are all well positioned and doing extremely well. The synergies that we've talked about are really now kind of in place so we don't have big gaps to go fill, $100 million in '04 and $250 million in '05. The growth accelerators are extremely exciting in terms of how these businesses are coming together. We now have a unified sales force for the pharma channel. We now have GE's service business working with the protein separations and some of the Amersham businesses to improve service operations.  

We've combined with strategic accounts and we have 9e technology programs which combine the best of Amersham and the best of GE in terms of things that we can offer customers over the next 12 months. So tremendous progress in integration. We love the way the business is operating and, again, we think it's going to continue to drive good results.  

KEITH SHERIN: Okay, next is NBC/Universal. Obviously NBC also had a major transformational quarter and these reported results include the impact of basically about 6 weeks of the combination. Now, in our reporting with the 80/20 structure we're going to report 100% of the top line, and that's why you see the 47% V, and for earnings, basically, we get 80% of Universal and give up 20% of NBC. So the impact here in total is 47% top-line growth and 12% operating profit growth. The impact from the deal of, including Universal which isn't the Universal results, it does include the reduction in the NBC results from the minority interest, is about 740 million of revenue, which is the Universal revenue driven by the film business and cable, and then about 49 million of operating profit which, as I said, it's Universal's results but it's also reduced for the impact of giving up 20% minority interest on the NBC results.  

Overall in the quarter if you just looked at NBC without the Universal impact it's about a 9% revenue growth and about a 5% op profit growth as we had previously forecast. That does include about $16 million of integration costs. In the quarter we had pretty good top line. The network had good advertising. That was offset at the network by the renegotiation costs as we had the last period of Friends and Frasier and the renegotiation of those shows, as people know. We did have some preemption also in the quarter. We had solid double digit op profit growth in both stations and cable and we had a great performance in the marketplace. We won the May sweeps with a 44 rating, 4 of the top 10 shows were from NBC. The scatter in the second quarter was pretty good, up 1% over what was a very strong high single digit up-front last year. We did book a record up-front.  

There was a lot of discussion about it but we booked one-third of the prime time at NBC and a quarter of the cable market up-front and that's pretty good. Prime time flat despite the loss of Friends and Frasier, so we're really feeling pretty good about how that went and we've got great strength, as Jeff said, in Telemundo and Bravo and USA. Telemundo is up 34%, Bravo's up 100% in what they booked in the up-front, so just a tremendous performance. The third quarter dynamics look, again, pretty similar to the second quarter, op profit up 10 to 15, Universal synergies will begin and the Athens Olympics are in the quarter, obviously. Right now we're expecting about $900 million of revenue from the Olympics and probably about $20 million of operating profit and things are going pretty good with that and we're looking forward to it. I'm going to also turn over to Jeff on the integration update for Universal.  

JEFF IMMELT: Again, on integration, the place where we're spending a lot of time is the management team, Bob and his team pulled together a unified front on day one. Again, a very strong management team in place from both NBC and Universal. One of the early successes, as Keith mentioned, was in the up-front sales effort where our average cable increase was in excess of 20% across the board, so we were able to present really a unified front. The synergies are on track for 100 million this year and 300 million next year. DVD sales remain robust and, again, because of the economy the theme park results are ahead of plan and providing some up sides. S, again, we feel good about where we stand from a standpoint of NBC/Universal.  

KEITH SHERIN: Okay, next is insurance. And before I go through these results I just want to explain. I'm going to be covering the GE impact from Genworth and Genworth did put out an earnings release today and they have an investor call at 11:00 to cover the Genworth results and you can get the call information off the GE website if you want to participate in that call. So on the quarter in the segment of insurance you can see revenues were down 18% and income is down 90% at 53 million net. The revenue is explained by basically two things: The dispositions last year of Edison and FGIC is about 750 million of that impact and then the loss on the IP, some of that runs through revenue, it's about 400, so the revenue decline is driven by the dispositions and the loss. The income decline has got a couple of factors and I'll take you through it.  

First, in terms of what's ongoing here, ERC had 142 million of net in the quarter, up 19%, a very solid quarter. We continue to see benefits from improved pricing, discipline on underwriting and what type of business we're going to take, good operational execution, lower adverse development in the previous year and they're on track for the second half and the total year with everything we see today in terms of claims rates and actuarial processes. So we still have to go but the team has done a great job to this point in the year and they had a good quarter. Genworth, the pro forma results that Mike Frasier and his team will report are 261 million, up 18%. He'll go through those details, as I said.  

The impact on GE is 217 million in net income in GE and that includes the minority interest which is the piece that we sold to investors as well as the shareholder taxes on the earnings after we sold 30%. So we had a $217 million impact in the quarter. Other insurance is down 94 million. That's driven by the dispositions that I talked about, the Edison and the FGIC, that we don't have the earnings that we had last year. In the segment we have included the impact of the IPO, which as I mentioned was a 336 million loss and I show that on the right side. On the Genworth transaction, we launched it May 25th. The IPO is performing well from. From a financial impact we sold 146 million shares at 19.50, we had a $336 million loss which is principally driven by the loss on the selling the shares below book value and then the rest of it is basically the transaction fees and separation costs. We did release $2.5 billion of capital and we used half of that to send up to GE and cash flow in the other half to help pay down the parent support debt as we redeploy the capital from insurance. We like the investor base. I think Mike and his team did a great job on the road show and a lot of great long-term holders are in and the stock's been trading well in the marketplace. Our plan is to sell down in a raining(ph) position in an orderly manner but the plan to reduce capital insurance is on track. We continue to make really good progress there and ERC is performing as expected. So summary of insurance.  

Now the last page on the segment highlights. I've got three segments here, all three had very strong quarters, you can look at the revenue and op profit V's here across the page. On the left side is advanced materials, op profit up 20%, volume was up 16, price was down 2 and FX was up 3, so a great volume quarter and the order rates were up 25% in the second quarter. We're basically sold out and it's pretty broad-based. Electrical, building and construction up close to 50%, business equipment up almost 20%, autos up double-digit outside the U.S., principally, quartz demand is strong, silicon's had a good quarter. The pressure we have here is we continue to have raw material pressure. Benzene averaged the second quarter at $2.38 a gallon, which is up dramatically versus last year, and that was a $90 million pressure on our profit in the quarter versus last year that we dealt with.  

We're continuing to see that, we have aggressive pricing actions that are underway in that business today. When you look forward to the third quarter we see similar dynamics. We've got a great volume quarter, up 15 to 20%. We see operating profit somewhere between 10 and 30%, basically, we're going to see what happens with the dynamics between our price increases and the inflation. July benzene closed at over $3 a gallon so that's why I've got a range there for everybody and we're forecasting and dealing with it. We'll see how the dynamics work between the price and the inflation and right now we think we'll still be positive, 10 to 30 in the quarter and we'll see how John (inaudible) do. In the middle consumer and industrial had very good quarter, volume was up 8, price was down 2 and great leverage with strong productivity, 18% operating profit growth. The team continues to execute the high-end strategy and you can see that in the results.  

The profile and the monogram VISA up over 20%. We're gaining some share in some key markets and lighting, industrial was up 8%. Again this team is executing very well, we're getting really great benefits in the marketplace from having the combination of the product lines. Appliance plus lighting plus core industrial going through distribution. Third quarter dynamics look similar. We're going to continue to see a decent market and this team is focused on cost take-out as we've integrated the two headquarters, now, and totaled three headquarters into one and the results look pretty strong for a strong double-digit profit growth in the quarter. Then on the right side is infrastructure and the infrastructure team, obviously the security and water business are the two biggest pieces here, also sensors and fanica(ph), had a great quarter, strong revenue growth up 13%, strong operating profit growth. Security business is very robust, sales were up 21%. Our ion track product is having a great success around the world, up 88%.  

Water remains very strong, we've got good growth in services. The new product introductions, like mobile water, performed very well and good margin growth through the services strategy here in new products. Third quarter looks pretty similar, as I said. Op profit up 20% and continued strength based on the orders growth that you saw earlier and the infrastructure businesses providing good growth. That's the segment look and now I'd like to just summarize kind of the 2004 guidance. If you look at the top left of the chart on both pre-deals and post-deals, so before Amersham, NBC, and Universal and the IPO of Genworth, we have increased 5 cents per share on the total year range.  

So today even after the deals we're at the $1.55 to $1.60, up 5 cents per share from what we had started the year with and we have an improving outlook for the second half when you look in the box at the revenue growth and at the earnings growth that goes with the range up top we're continuing to execute. It's driven by the factors on the right side. We've got a lot of positive factors. The deals are done and we are performing very well, we are totally focused on execution. Energy is on track and rebounds to double digit in '05. You see the financial service strength both in the marketplace and on the balance sheet. We're well positioned for interest rate changes. The demographics are favoring our products and the strong technology foundation that we've put into place is driving that.  

We've got great service momentum with a tremendous install base and strong double-digit orders growth and a great global position growing in China, eastern Europe, Europe, India. And we have a few challenges. I mentioned the softness in the U.S. diagnostic market and we're going to deal with that, CT and MR, and we're going to deal with the benzene, raw materials. But obviously more positive than negatives and as we enter the third quarter having a clear view of the 2004 earnings and narrowing the range I think it's very positive to accomplish the strategic actions that we did and add 5 cents to the bottom of the range for the year. So we feel pretty good about 2004 and I'm going to turn back over to Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith. Just to wrap up a look into the future, we just finished our three-year planning cycle in June so I had a chance to review each one of the businesses and looking at the next couple years and we really have lot of momentum going inside the company. If you look at what we've talked about in '05, which is EPS and cash growth up 10 to 15% with improving returns, 85% of the company in what we've called growth engines, which are great businesses with high visibility and low volatility and I think a lot of this is coming into focus now. Great service growth, good demographics, great origination and cycle management of financial services and just improved cycles from the standpoint of both aviation and energy. And then the cash generators, which are more economically sensitive, really only 15% of the company today. And at a pretty good point in the cycle with strong performance and good cash generation so I think what we've said about '04 and '05 is coming into focus.  

And our 2005 is pretty visible as we sit here today in terms of what the levers are and how we're performing and we feel pretty good about the momentum we have as we look at 2005. Lastly, just to wrap up, we've talked a lot about the strategic repositioning of GE. The second quarter is a very important point for the company. But just to wrap up on some of the things we've done, because I think this really sets the framework for the company going forward. We have created a faster growth set of industrial businesses. We have created a higher returning set of financial businesses. We are experiencing massive growth in our installed base, we're winning in the long cycle businesses and that sets the table for the future. We do have a stronger balance sheet from the standpoint of cash flow and the strength of AAA and we've really optimized performance despite tough cycles in energy, aviation and insurance which have been headwinds over the past few years and are now tailwinds as we look at the second half of 2004 into 2005 and beyond.  

So I think we sit here today with a great global leader in technology and services, a reliable growth company and one with higher returns. So a lot of the hard work is in place, I think the company is in great shape going forward and we're very excited about the position we're in. Bill, let me turn it back over to you and let's take some questions. Great, Jeff, thanks very much.  

BILL CARY: Nicole, if you could go ahead and open the question line we'd like to go ahead and do some Q&A, now.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to ask a question please press star, 1 on your touchtone telephone. If your question has been answered or you wish to withdraw your question please press star, 2. Out of courtesy to all participants, please limit yourself to one question. Our first question comes from Deane Dray of Goldman Sachs. Your question, please.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, good morning, everyone.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Dean.  

DEANE DRAY: Could you comment on short cycle orders for June. What do they look like in terms of the trends? Was there any deceleration? And geographically how did they stack up versus recent trends?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep, sure. First of all I'd say that you've got to look at the two pieces. If you look at the flow business in June, we went about 0 to 5 up in the flow business, and as Jeff mentioned, I think you've got to look at the comparisons to last year. The actual dollar amount of growth from May to June was about $150 million of positive growth in that range. So, pretty positive volume and activity, I think, probably comparisons are a little tougher to last year but in terms of total economic volume growth it was very good. Then the other side is services. If you look at services they actually got better in June, they went from a 20 to 25 to a 30 to 35% V and they very strong, as you saw, across the board. So, overall the second quarter flow is up 14, the first quarter flow was up 12, so that's an improvement. First quarter services were up 5 to 10 and the second quarter services were up 25 to 30, so in our empire, in our universe where we're working we're seeing some pretty good industrial order activity globally. Asia was very strong. Europe was about the same, high end, probably, of those ranges and then the U.S. was a little slower for June.  

DEANE DRAY: And just for clarification, did you breakout the contribution, when you say 13% total revenue growth, of the contribution from FX and acquisitions?  

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at that, Deane, I think from FX in total, it's about three points on the total company and two points on the industrial company. But the way I'd look at it is if you look at revenue, let's look at the industrial side, 9% organic, ex-power, I think power had a pretty big impact in the quarter obviously. And on financial services ex-everything, acquisitions, dispositions, FX, consolidations, it's still 5% organic growth, so it's a pretty strong quarter from a top line perspective here across the board.  

DEANE DRAY: Great, thank you.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tony Boase of A.G. Edwards. Your question, please. Thank you.  

TONY BOASE, ANALYST, AG EDWARDS: What are integration expenses or impacts for NBC and Amersham for the rest of this year and for fiscal '05?  

KEITH SHERIN: They're going to be nominal. We're on track here to basically have these teams fully integrated. We've had an officer of the company leading the integration activities for both businesses and the teams are really in strong shape in terms of identifying both revenue and cost synergies and I said the amounts in the second quarter, they'll never be more than that as we go forward per quarter, so pretty nominal.  

TONY BOASE: What are going to be the big drivers for fourth quarter performance?  

KEITH SHERIN: I think if you look at the portfolio you can see that the first and most important foundation is the breadth across the portfolio. So, the 9 of 11 businesses that aren't dealing with the two specific issues that we're driving in the company have got great momentum. They've got great orders, they've got good backlogs, and we expect to see very strong performance there. So the two factors are first you're going to see an improvement in power, an improvement in energy, and there's really two dynamics. One is you've got a big services cycle there as we've built the orders and built the backlog. Two, you don't have the comparison last year where we had termination revenue. Really, I think it's about $30 million of termination revenue that we received in 2003 in power in the fourth quarter and so that comparison change gives you quite a bit of lift in performance boost. So, I think continued strength across the portfolio as we've seen and an improvement in power consistent with the way we forecast is kind of what we're looking for for the fourth quarter in this current economic activity environment. We don't see any real change in the global economic environment.  

TONY BOASE: Thank you.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Don MacDougall of Banc of America. Your question, please.  

DON MACDOUGALL, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Good morning, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Don.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Question on industrial cash flow. I think it was about $5 billion comped against 3.9 in the first half of last year. As I recall there was a fair amount of progress collection headwind in the 3.9, about a billion 2, which means the cash flow for the industrial businesses is about flat. Is there working capital build going on there or is there some other unusual cash flow headwinds on the industrial side?  

KEITH SHERIN: No, I think if you look at it we actually have 700 million improvement in working capital and there's only a couple hundred million of that is really progress, Don. So we've got a little bit of a receivables growth but we've got an inventory decline and accounts payable improvement and a progress collections improvement year-over-year that give you that 700 million of working capital so we're converting more than 100% of our net income on the industrial side to cash flow from operating activities. And the teams are focused on it. We've continued our cash councils, and we're applying Six Sigma resources across the board to our entitlement processes associated with cash and for the year we're expecting to be up, as I said, about 25% on the industrial side. So even ex-progress it's up 11% year to date.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. I'll have to go back and check. I thought it was a billion 2 of headwind in the first half of last year.  

KEITH SHERIN: I'll work through that with you.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. I guess another comment or question, I guess, maybe for Jeff. There's been a lot of speculation in the press recently about your interest in MGM and I guess was wondering if would you make any comments on that just following the acquisition of Universal. Would you be prepared to add something so quickly to your media portfolio.  

JEFF IMMELT: You know, Don, in general I don't want to comment on specific deals, but I would go back to what I said at EPG. When I look at the company today I love the set of businesses we have, and we just don't need a big deal right now to hit all the numbers we've got or to execute on the strategies we have.  

DON MACDOUGALL: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Inch of Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks, good morning.  

KEITH SHERIN: Hi, John.  

JOHN INCH: You kind of talked a little bit about the order dynamics here but if you just go by the total company orders up 13%, and I think from your press release they were up 20% in the first quarter, so were there tougher comparisons or maybe a little bit more color on, are orders actually decelerating, or how should we be thinking about this  

KEITH SHERIN: I think I went through it, and Jeff went through it on the page where we covered the orders, I think the issue you're dealing with is the lumpiness of the long cycle orders.  

JOHN INCH: Right.  

KEITH SHERIN: But, again, if you look at what's really driving our economic activity, the flow was up 12 in the first quarter, it's up 14 in the second quarter, services were up 5 to 10 in the first quarter, they're up 25 to 30 in the second quarter. So it's really the long cycle where we were up 15 to 20 in the first quarter and we're up 10 to 15 in the second quarter. So again you've got to look at it, I think, on the year to date basis, up 14%, we're feeling pretty good about where we are in those businesses. The healthcare, energy, aircraft all having very good performances even though the orders are lumpy quarter by quarter.  

JOHN INCH: And is there any specific long-cycle business that's accounting for proportionally more of the disconnect in terms of the first versus second?  

KEITH SHERIN: We had a big, big quarter, a big first half last year in rail. It's down almost 50%. Obviously that's not a big number for us in total, but in terms of the V, that's dragging the V down a little bit. In terms of absolute shipments, John, on rail, it's very strong and the industry is very strong right now. It's just more of the lumpiness of the orders.  

JOHN INCH: Lastly, what, I mean, if you look at raw material costs this quarter, what do you think they cost you in aggregate versus last quarter, net of price increases and kind of what's your outlook for the rest of the year given where benzene and other steel pricing are at today?  

KEITH SHERIN: I think I'd be better off answering that without benzene, I think. If you look at first half commodity pressure, net of price recovery, it's basically $20 million, $30 million. We have seen some in steel and we've seen some in other commodities but not a dramatic amount. As we've said before most of the year is hedged our demand based on forecasted quantities that we're going to need and the teams have done a pretty good job putting in plans to get price recovery. For the second half our current forecast of inflation, commodity inflation versus what we had expected, is less than $15 million in the second half in total across all the businesses. Again, excluding benzene. And I talked about benzene. It was a big number in the quarter and we're working on the dynamics of price versus inflation in benzene for the third and fourth quarter right now.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague of Smith Barney. Your question, please.  

JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thanks, good morning, everyone.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Jeff.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: I just want to understand a little bit better the tax rate. I guess I understand the dynamics in the quarter pulling the quarter down to 17 and the first half down to 20. I don't understand why the whole year is 20. Can you work us through that?  

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Under the accounting of APB 28, basically, you've got to be estimating your total year rate and then making sure that your year to date performance is on that rate. So what we do is we look at the operations performance and we look at the tax impact and you come up with what the total year rate is first. So the current forecast with the benefits of both the NBC tax benefit and the tax settlements with the IRS is that the total year rate went down to 20, and then you work your way back into, okay, what's the second quarter? Well, it had to be 17 to get to that total year rate at the half. Is that your question, Jeff?  

JEFF SPRAGUE: That's it. And I wonder if we could just get a little color, Jeff, on what you're thinking about aircraft. I mean, you did kind of note it as a tailwind, the spares data does look very encouraging. Could you just kind of give us your current view based on the backdrop relative to the carriers, what you're seeing in travel trends and kind of your outlook into '05 and '06?  

JEFF IMMELT: Jeff, the way I would describe it right now is the the activity is really robust. The revenue passenger miles are up something like 12% in June, most of the -- I'll let the big airframe manufacturers like Boeing and Airbus can speak for themselves but most of them have started talking about increases in production. In the last 30 days, Jeff, I was in both Asia and Europe. Asia is booming, markets like China, even Japan, are booming in terms of travel. There's a lot of interest in some of the new aircraft that's out there, like the 7E7, and we've won in the market. We're winning in the marketplace, so our installed base continues to grow. We've got great share positions on the low-cost carriers, so I would say that there is a -- if you just look at it strictly from a revenue passenger miles standpoint and from a kind of freight travel standpoint, we're seeing just a very robust market right now, Jeff.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Right. Can I slip in one more?  

JEFF IMMELT: Sure.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Given that advance materials looks like it's, as you noted, it was sold out, can you give us a sense of, kind of incrementally, what you might be able to do on price relative to what you've gotten done so far this year?  

JEFF IMMELT: We're moving, right now, very aggressively on pricing. I hate to predict what it is but I would say that this is the point in the cycle where that's really what the focus of the plastics commercial team is.  

JEFF SPRAGUE: Thanks a lot.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Michael Regan of first Boston. Your question, please.  

MIKE REGAN, ANALYST, FIRST BOSTON: Thanks, good morning.  

JEFF IMMELT: Going back, Mike?  

MIKE REGAN: What's that?  

JEFF IMMELT: Good morning.  

MIKE REGAN: Hey, Keith, back to the tax rate, if I read it correctly your guidance for the second half of the year is roughly 20% which gives us the full year 20%.  

KEITH SHERIN: Right.  

MIKE REGAN: On industrial, well, on both. On industrial specifically, that's down about 5 percentage points from what your guidance had been, the midpoint at least, and flattish in capital. It feels like, at least on my model, that adds about 3 cents of earnings for the second half of the year. I was just wondering with you essentially keeping guidance flat for the year am I thinking about the increment from tax rate the right way, and if so is there something happening operationally that eats into the 3 cents that you get from the benefit of taxes?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, I think you're close. I would say that the first thing that you think about is we had a range of 24 to 26. The first quarter was 25. In our total guidance of $1.55 to $1.60 we were still sticking to that range. The second thing I'd say is if you look at the second quarter alone and you look at those items that we outlined as being kind of the one-time events, the second quarter events, first of all those are $70 million worse in the quarter than the benefit from the tax settlements. Then in the third quarter we're going to continue to have an impact from the deals. We're going to continue to see some of that fair market value in inventory flow through and we'll continue to see some of the impact from the Genworth transaction as kind of a one-time event associated with the deal that, basically, there's at least 2 cents from the one-time deals between the second quarter and the third and fourth quarter on Genworth that are offsetting that. It's not an operational thing. So between what was the total year estimate of a range of 24 to 26, then the kind of deal-related events cost in the second, third and fourth quarter, I think that's kind accounting for it.  

MIKE REGAN: So those deal-related event costs are worse than you had originally anticipated?  

KEITH SHERIN: If you look at the second quarter events they're definitely worse then we had anticipated. We were originally thinking we were going to get a 0 to $200 million gain. These are, again, these are non operational things that don't really come into -- we were trying to keep them out of what operations did but we were thinking we were going to get a 0 to $200 million gain on Genworth and we got a 336 million loss. So, we wouldn't get any credit for taxes, we know that, and hopefully we wouldn't get any penalty for a loss on a one-time transaction.  

JEFF IMMELT: I went through the operations for the second half, Michael, really looked pretty much consistent with what we expected.  

MIKE REGAN: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley. Your question, please.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Great, thanks, operator. Good morning, everyone.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hi, Scott.  

SCOTT DAVIS: I just want to extend this tax question into '05 and longer term. I guess the question is how should we think of more normalized levels when we get to '05 and then longer term in our models?  

KEITH SHERIN: I mentioned it. I think clearly this IRS settlement and the NBC are related to 2004. I don't see those repeating. I would go back to previous guidance. I said earlier that we'd plan on a mid 20s rate for industrial. If you want to narrow that down I'd go to what our guidance was for this year, 24 to 26 kind of range based on where we are right now for '05 and I'd do a similar thing for the financial services. At this point in planning that's what we're using for our 2005 planning.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, fair enough. Would you expect, though, Keith, longer term for those tax rates to merge up a little bit closer to statutory rates?  

KEITH SHERIN: I think longer term those rates do go up over the planning period but we're going to continue to work on tax structuring and our global nature of our business gives us quite a bit of opportunity there for lower taxed earnings, so, yeah, I think they will inch up over time and that's kind of the way we're planning.  

SCOTT DAVIS: I want to ask a follow-on question on pricing power. And we can kind of talk about this with plastics and without plastics if you'd like, but you've struggled to get pricing in the last several quarters and we've talked about it in Q&A. Are you feeling a return of pricing power given the strong order growth that you're seeing or is it fairly comparable to how it's been the last couple of quarters?  

KEITH SHERIN: Again, I think, Scott, at this point in the cycle it's not Universal, it tends to go business by business. Areas like equipment management we're getting price, sequentially in plastics we're getting pricing. There's even some price increases out there in the appliance business right now. Some of the service businesses are getting pricing and then financial services. So it's not Universal, but we are seeing in specific areas real opportunities. This is, again, based on capacity utilization and things like that.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Real quick, I don't think this has been mentioned, how should we think about 7E7 costs, particularly on the R&D side, and margins going forward?  

KEITH SHERIN: Again, we've already been spending. We were already kind of spending at the pace kind of assuming that we would be successful on the 7E7, so I just don't think you're going to see a material impact on 7E7 incrementally going forward.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay, thanks, guys.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Steve Tusa of JP Morgan. Your question, please. Good morning, guys. Good morning, Steve.  

STEVE TUSA, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Just a quick question on infrastructure. Just wanted to know what the organic growth rate there is there, ex-acquisitions. Is it any different than the reported?  

KEITH SHERIN: If you take, again, everything out of these run rates, I mean, if you look, security was up 11 and water ex-acquisition, ex-FX, ex-everything, I know you guys love that, is up 7, but that's part of our business model here is to continue to build out these growth platforms, but the fundamental underlying rates of these businesses are very strong.  

STEVE TUSA: Interested to know what you're seeing out there from your more industrial customers as far as their tendency to spend a little bit more capital here. What are you seeing out there in the general environment?  

JEFF IMMELT: The best way to think about that, I think, Steve, in the mid-market financing area we do a lot of work with mid-market, mid-cap companies, asset growth there was up about 8% in the quarter and I would actually say in that regard June was actually a little bit stronger than April and May, so that may be the best barometer of what we see in kind of the capex space.  

STEVE TUSA: Okay. And for your own capex, I didn't see the details of the cash flow statement anywhere in all these slides. What was it and you're on track for 2 billion for this year around?  

JEFF IMMELT: Yeah, we are.  

KEITH SHERIN: It will be a little higher than that because we've got to include the impact of so many acquisitions here.  

STEVE TUSA: Okay, thanks. That's it. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rob Friedman of Standard & Poor's Equity. Your question, please.  

ROB FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, STANDARD & POOR'S EQUITY: Thank you, good morning.  

KEITH SHERIN: Hi, Rob.  

ROB FRIEDMAN: Hey, guys. I guess this question goes to Keith. What was ERC's cost of float in the first half in Q2?  

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have that, Rob. I'll have to get back to you.  

ROB FRIEDMAN: Okay. And were there any material reversals in any of GE Industrial's or GEC's reserve accounts for Q2?  

KEITH SHERIN: No. I think the comparisons really were just lower loss this year-over-year were benefiting us but that's just an impact of what we did last year as opposed to something that came out.  

ROB FRIEDMAN: Okay, sounds good.  

KEITH SHERIN: We'll get you on the cost of float.  

ROB FRIEDMAN: Thanks, Keith.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Nicole Parent of Credit Suisse First Boston. Your question, please.  

NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Good morning, guys.  

JEFF IMMELT: Hey, Nicole.  

NICOLE PARENT: Jeff, I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit on the drivers of the diagnostic imaging softness. I think I was impressed by the breadth of the medical portfolio orders in the quarter. PET seems really strong and you saw one of your biggest competitors in that space blow up this morning saying the market is weak, your orders look phenomenal, up 55% in the quarter, could you talk a little bit about the different dynamics in the business?  

JEFF IMMELT: What I would say, Nicole, is that one of the biggest drivers if the U.S market is in the clinic business which had been a big driver of growth in the U.S. I would say that the primary care center is the hospital base is still relatively strong, but the clinic business has been weaker and I'd say that is probably the single biggest driver in the USDI market over the last, let's say, two or three-quarters. On the PET side, just the CT PET is really what's driving that business today. And we were just the firstest with the mostest on the CT PET, and I would say, if anything, just the proximity between what we now have with Amersham and what we have with the PET business just makes us a very, very big player there.  

NICOLE PARENT: And I guess if we were to look at the order number of 42% within healthcare how big was the biosciences portion up?  

JEFF IMMELT: I think the healthcare technologies, which was the core business, was up 12% and the biosciences business I think on the order basis, you guys have it kind of year-over-year on that?  

KEITH SHERIN: I don't have it.  

JEFF IMMELT: Let us get that one back to you, Nicole.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from David Bleustein of UBS. Your question, please.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning.  

KEITH SHERIN: Hi, David.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Following up on Rob's question was there any adverse development at ERC in the quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, we had a little second quarter the net income impact of adverse development was about $64 million.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Okay. And what are utility customers telling you about turbine demand? How many new and uninstalled turbines are still out there? Can you provide some color on what you're seeing in China?  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, just on the turbine demand I'd say that first of all we're pretty happy with the shipments this year. We're going to ship out of Greenville 73 units. Last year we had 106. But we've been talking about a range of 25 to 50, so we're seeing some pretty good. Totally, for the total year, we're going to have 133 units including the large gas turbines out of Europe. The stored gas turbines at year end were about 129. We talk about stored gas turbines, we're down to 90. So we're seeing some pretty good activity out there and we've been helping our global customers and our U.S. customers move some of those extra turbines globally with some of the demand globally. So feel pretty good about it. Jeff.  

JEFF IMMELT: I would say in China we'll do about $1 billion this year and the way to think about that, David, is that that's not much service business, yet that's almost all new unit sales. We're in the midst of the second bundled buy bid right now which is not necessarily the biggest part of the China demand but it is a kind of substantial part of the business as well, and we just don't see any slowing right now in China in terms of the investment in the energy sector. The government has indicated that they're going to continue to invest in energy and we'll be one of the recipients of that.  

DAVID BLEUSTEIN: Terrific, thanks.  

KEITH SHERIN: Hey, Nicole, just to go back on biosciences, the second quarter orders were up 11% in biosciences.  

NICOLE PARENT: Great.  

BILL CARY: Okay, Nicole, I think we've got time for just one more question, if you could put in one more question. Okay, great.  

JEFF IMMELT: Again, thanks, great questions. We feel like this is a great point in time for the company and again we're feeling good about the economy but more importantly we're feeling good about the strategy and the positioning of the company. So thanks a lot and and have a great day.  

BILL CARY: Thanks very much for your time. The earnings and the other materials here will be available on our website. For the first time early next week we're also going to post a transcript of today's call in five languages for our global investors. A replay of this call will be available this afternoon and the call-in number will also be posted on our website. And as always Joanna and I are standing by to take any of your questions this afternoon. So thanks again for your time.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference call for today. You may all disconnect and thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
gemeds : GE Healthcare | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i372 : Medical Equipment/Supplies | i951 : Health Care
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | girs : Internal Revenue Service | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | gvtre : Treasury Department | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040723e0790002t
  


 HD
 Q1  2004  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,718 words
   PD
8 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. Welcome to the General Electric first quarter 2004 conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Nicole and I will be your conference coordinator today. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please press star 0 and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference Mr. Bill Cary, Vice President of Investor Communications. Please proceed.  

   TD
WILLIAM CARY, V.P., CORPORATE INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks very much, Nicole and good morning and welcome. Joanna and I are pleased to host this first quarter earnings conference call for GE. Remember this is a webcast so I'd ask at this point that you refresh your browsers so you can see the materials. You have the press release from this morning and the slides that we will be walking through are available on our website at  www.ge.com/investor along with some supplemental information. If you don't see it, again, please refresh. You can download and print and follow along. As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements of course can change as the world changes and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We will cover our current quarter performance our outlook for Q2 and the total year and allow some time for Q & A's. To do that we have Jeff Immelt, our Chairman and CEO, and Keith Sherin, our CFO this morning and with that I'll turn it over to Jeff.  

JEFFREY IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CEO, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Great thanks, Bill. This has really been a great week for our company. On Tuesday we won a position on Boeing 77 dream liner. Today we closed the Amersham transaction. We think both of these moves will help GE grow not just in the short-term but for decades and really positions us in a very strategic way. We also are here today to talk about a very strong first quarter. We had economic growth continuing at a strong pace with total orders up 20%. And while we still see some inflation from oil and other commodities we feel very good about the position of our total businesses. The portfolio is performing well. We had 9 of 11 businesses up double digit. It's really the broadest growth we've seen since the first half of 2000. A very good cash performance. Aircraft engine commercial spare parts were up 19% and X-energy and pension revenues were up 13% and earnings per share were up 17%.  

Our financial service results were excellent. We're really in great position from both a growth and a risk management position and the aircraft on the ground has reached zero so we feel very good about that. The initiatives are driving growth. The growth platforms are up almost 30%. Services had a 13% operating profit growth. And as I said earlier we closed the Amersham transaction today and we expect both NBC Universal and Genworth to be completed in the second quarter. So the company's in great shape and we have very strong momentum going forward.  

We are are winning in the marketplace. When you look at the first quarter wins, we had great broad based growth in energy with some big wins in Wind and we continue to solidify our position in China. Healthcare introduced some new products, most notably the 64 SLY CT scanner and our China orders grew 15%, In addition to the 77 win, transportation had some very strategic wins with $2.9 billion of new engine and service orders and we also shipped 11 GE Evolution locomotives, which are an advanced locomotive, and announced our alliance with Honda for the microchips. In commercial finance we closed tree strategic acquisitions, theyre going to add to long-term growth this year. In consumer finance we continue to have great organic and inorganic growth with total assets in consumer finance growing more than 30% in the quarter.  

NBC retained its leadership and we are really proud of the performance by Bravo and Telemundo which really demonstrate the great programming strength we've got inside the company. Infrastructure continues to be very well positioned for the future and we solidify our position in key growth segments like security with an acquisition like the one at InVision and continue to get good water wins. Advanced materials had very strong orders particularly in China and we continue to see good penetration and good global growth, and OSIs delivering. Consumer and industrial is really executing on our high end strategy seeing profile units up 20% and monogram units up 11%. Very strong broad based marketplace wins.  

If you just look at the next page from an orders standpoint, our infrastructure orders were up 41%. We see great growth almost everywhere across the board. Our flow businesses like plastics and silicone, appliances, industrial systems and infrastructure we are seeing the broadest, as I said earlier, the broadest growth we've seen in many years, and great momentum going in the second quarter. The service business continues to see nice stable high single digit, double digit type growth. Healthcare was up 11%. Energy up 16%. Very consistent. A strong order rate growth. So all the momentum we saw in the 4th quarter when orders were up 19% we see in the first quarter with orders up 20%.  

The next page just takes you through a similar look from a financial service standpoint. In consumer finance assets up 38%. That is both FX and organic growth but very strong over all with delinquencies down. Very stable delinquencies and nonearnings. And from a mid market standpoint we saw a 31% growth. About 11% organic, 20% through acquisitions. And again, a great delinquency and risk management performance. So very strong first quarter for us. Very broad based. And with that I'll turn it over to Keith to go through some of the details of the financials.  

KEITH SHERIN, CFO, SR. V.P.-FINANCE, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Jeff. Let me start with the overall summary for the company and then I will go into the details by business. Revenues at 33.4 up 10%. Very strong industrial sales at 16.7. We're up 6%. You can see the impact of the power bubble here Ex-energy up 12% on the industrial sales. Financial services revenue very strong up 14%. Or contributed values or our net revenue after removing the impact of interest expense for our commercial and consumer finance businesses up 24%. And that is really driven by the asset growth we have had in both those businesses on average over 21% asset growth in the quarter. Net earnings at $3.2 billion, up 1%. We talked about EPS of 32 cents a share at the high end of the range. When you look at the reported number including the impact to the accounting changes we had last year in the first quarter it is up 7% on EPS, 8% on earnings and our operating cash flow at $2.6 billion up 67%. I'll show you the details on that.  

I thought on the right-side it is helpful to look at the broad strength we have in this business performances quarter. If you look at the metrics ex-energy and X to noncash pension revenues up 13 for the company, earnings up 16. And EPS up 17. And then when you look at 32 cents a share and you compare it to last year's 32 cents, it is just a view of how is the broad portfolio performing. Energy is down 2 cents. And I'll show you that is really driven by the terminations of some lower gas turbine shipments. A pension as a noncash charge is down 2 cents. So our pension income in the quarter is basically zero. $4 million after-tax and that is down 2 cents and then our insurance dispositions that we completed last year as we repositioned the insurance portfolio. We don't have those earnings any more, that is a penny.  

So when you look at what we are getting out of operations, 5 cents, it is really broad based growth and I will show you the segments and I'll show you how those different businesses are performing. Then on the bottom right a point about the tax rates. Our industrial tax rate which is listed as XG Capital Services, GECS, is down from last year. It's at 25% which is consistent with what we had all last year. And consistent with our outlook for the total year. That is down and our GE Capital Services tax rate is 22%, that is up in the quarter about 6 points. And so in terms of net income the two tax rate impacts in terms of net income offset each other so we have a really nice growth from a strong core. The breadth in the portfolio is showing through and the known head winds of power and pension and some of the insurance dispositions are impacting the earnings.  

So here is a look at the segment view. This is on the 11 business bases that we have talked to you about in the annual report and we gave you the recast 8-K showing the data by business now. Everything here is right in line with what we gave as quarter one guidance in January. At the top of the list is energy. The revenue and profit are down. But it's slightly better than our plan and what we had as our expectations. You can see in the middle of the page the growth engines. Strong quarter on both the top and on the bottom line. I'm take you through some of the pieces of those. Then on the bottom the cash generators had a very strong quarter on the bottom line. Insurance is down because of the dispositions that we did last year. And then in equipment and other services you can see the revenue numbers up. That is principally because we consolidated our Penske operation in the first quarter. So overall a great quarter from the broad portfolio.  

9/11 business is up double digit profit growth and I will be able to take you through the pieces in a minute here. The next page is about the cash flow. We had a just a tremendous cash flow quarter, obviously going from $1.6 billion of operating cash flow to $2.6 billion, up 67%. If you look at the two parts, first of all, from GE Capital Services we've got our 10% of earnings dividend and on top of that we had another $200 million which is the final proceeds from last years insurance disposition. So $200 million of the 400 this year is coming from the disposition programs we had last year and then on the bottom the industrial $1.4 billion going to $2.2 billion so $800 million. About $150 million of that is from our working capital improvements and the balance comes from our cash management programs. We've continued to have the cash councils and the cash management operations focus that we had last year and we had a tremendous success in running the company to make sure that we are optimizing everything from a cash perspective.  

Even if you look at cash flow from operating activity X progress it is up 40% on the industrial side. So this was a terrific performance, we got $400 million of benefit in working capital in that $2.2 billion. We talked about the insurance deal driving the GECS dividend. The total year here is on track for the 10 to 15% increase. On the right-side I've given the cash balance walk, $1.7 billion beginning balance. The CFOA of 2.6 from the left-side of the chart. Paid $2 billion to dividends. We've suspended the repurchase during the issuance of the shares for both Amersham and Universal purchase. P & E about $400 million, we had some small dispositions a little less than $100 million associated with medical space labs and theme. And then we raised the universal proceeds to $3.8 billion. So you can see that our cash balance has grown up $4.1 billion, we are ready to close the Universal deal basically and we had $300 million of free cash flow on top of the dividends in the P & E. So we're really, really, very happy about the cash flow progress starting the year.  

The next page is on GE Capital Services funding. If you look we ended the quarter with debt of $303 billion. Commercial paper at (INAUDIBLE) is 27% of the stack. In the -- well in the range obviously of our 25-35%. We got great coverage on our backup lines. And on the right-side we've issued $14 billion of debt year-to-date against the target of 50-60 billion. We have 38 of maturities and the rest will come based on how much growth we have. We issued all around the world. We've got great retail demand. Our spreads continue to tighten and we replenished our shelf, we filed a 30 billion shelf in the quarter to be able to continue our programs hear at Capital.  

Just on one other item here on parent supported debt we started and ended last year started this year with $7.9 billion of parent supported debt. At the end of the first quarter that is down to $7.5 billion and we have a clear path to get that below $5 billion by the end of the year. When you look forward at second quarter, in December, we gave guidance for the second quarter of 37 to 39 cents. We recently updated that guidance to 39 cents predeals, I will show you what I mean by that and here are the ranges how we expect the segments to perform. And you can see it's a pretty similar profile the first quarter with Energy down as we expect. Strong performance from both the growth engines and the cash generators and we expect 8 to 9 out of 11 businesses here to be up double digit in the quarter. The current view of 39 cents of earnings per share from operations is the high end of the guidance that we gave.  

We will have some transaction impacts from the Genworth IPO, the closing of Amersham and the Universal closing that are not in the 39-cents and I'll show you that later in the pitch. And we have some more detail about the quarterly splits that we put on the website in supplemental data. So now let me jump into some of the businesses. First transportation. We had a great quarter in transportation. Revenues up 14. From higher unit shipments and higher spare sales. Op profit up 15. It is really driven by strong growth in the commercial and military spares. Partially offset by some increased shipments of lower margin commercial engines.  

We had 16 GE 90 engines this year in the first quarter versus 6 last year that impact our margin mix and we also have less aero derivative units that were going into the power generation space that offset some of the spares growth. But you can see the spares sales growth was tremendous. $12.3 million a day. Up 19% on the commercial side. Military was up 10%. Commercial engine shipments were up. Military engine shipments were up and we had a great quarter in rail with 43 more locomotives shipped up, 36%. So a terrific quarter, units and services and cost control and the second quarter dynamics look the same. We expect op profit to be up about the same. Spares should continue. We're looking for a $12.6 million average daily order rate. About 13 million in the first quarter as Jeff said and strong shipments on both rail and military units, and continued cost discipline. So quarter looks pretty good.  

On the ride side is Energy. Again as I said it's a little better than plan at what we had said previously. Revenues down 12 and operating profit down 28. It is really driven by four factors. The first factor and largest factor is that we don't have any terminations this year. We had those last year. The second factor is we have some lower shipments of gas turbine units. 36 units this year versus 54 last year. That includes Greenville and our European gas turbine shipments and that is partially offset by a tremendous growth in service. Revenue was up 9 in the quarter operating profit was up over 20, and a tremendous growth in oil and gas. Revenue was up 15 and operating profit up over 50. So when you look at those four factors that is what gives us the revenue and the operating profit impact.  

We continue to win in the growth markets. We firmed up orders in China of $600 million, about three-quarters of that were the finalization of the bundle buy orders. We have broad based growth in the rest of the business services up 16, oil and gas up 11 and I mentioned the turbine units and the terminations that we don't have repeating from last year. So second quarter dynamics are also similar here for power. Profits somewhere down 25-35. No terminations again in the quarter. 214 million last year and service sales very strong and oil and gas will be strong as well.  

Looking at some of the financial services highlights here. Consumer finance on the left-side had a very strong quarter. Assets up 38%. $30 billion. Some of the pieces of that we had acquisitions contributing $17 billion. Core growth very strong up $11 billion. We had some benefits from foreign exchange about $8 billion. Offset by the lack of having the Home Depot portfolio which is about $6 billion so that gives you the asset growth. When you look at how the income came out, up 10, we had very strong core growth up $60 million. Good productivity. Acquisitions contributed about $45 million and those factors offset the impact of the Home Depot performance in the portfolio and securitizations that we had last year which are down $31 million year-over-year. So overall up 10%.  

Great asset quality around the world. U.S. and Europe solid. Continue to have progress in Japan on bankruptcies, working delinquencies, and collections there. Great ROE in Japan. I think the other point here is that Dave Nissen and his team are making significant investments in the business. We have $43 million after-tax of cost in the quarter here for new products like the dual card that we are launching around the world and has been very successful in the initial launches globally, and the GE money brand to drive organic growth. So a pretty strong story in the quarter and we've got a great future. The second quarter looks like about 15% net income growth. (INAUDIBLE) asset growth is going to power that. Great operations and risk management, and good asset quality around the globe.  

On the right-side is Commercial Finance, also had a tremendous quarter. Assets up 8%, up $17 billion. It was principally driven by the acquisitions. We added $14 billion in assets from the three deals listed, TransAmerica, which gives a great, great position in vendor financing. Sophia real estate deal in Europe and HPFC which Jeff talked about. We had a lot of core growth in the quarter. For net income growth we had about $60 million of core. About $65 million from acquisitions and we had lower losses in both aviation and telecom that drove the 10% earnings growth.  

If you look in the supplemental data and see how the businesses performed we had the commercial loans and lease business at $581 million in net, was up 24%. Tremendous performance driven by that core growth, as I mentioned acquisitions. Aviation $144 million net, up 7%. Which is a great performance in this environment. And real estate $230 million down 14%. We didn't have the repeat of some of the gains we had last year from the sales of properties, and MECP portfolio, and Central Norte, were about $100 million last year. So overall a tremendous performance by the commercial finance team. We love the asset position. Nonearning assets are down. Write offs are down. The reserve coverage as a percent of nonearnings is up. The second quarter dynamics look pretty good. Up 15% on net income with strong asset growth and the asset quality continuing and the acquisition contributing. We just closed the IKON transaction, about a billion five of assets last week. So a pretty good story there.  

Healthcare. This is pre Amersham which closed today as Jeff said. Revenue up 17%. Operating profit up 11%. If you look at the first quarter, and I will give you revenue around the different modalities and geographies we had tremendous performance in Ultrasound up 14%. PET was up 15%. Our Packs business as hospitals continue to invest the productivity was up 18%. China is back up 20% and that was partially offset by MR which globally was down about 15% and CT which globally was flat. The U.S. DI market has softened. The reported industry sales for equipment in the quarter was down about 10%, so we were obviously impacted by that as well as the other competitors.  

The team has got very strong variable cost productivity. Instrumentarium is doing very well. Revenues up 7 operating profit up about 12 and the first quarter orders were up 15% in total for this business. Second quarter dynamics we expect the operating profit to be about the same, about 10%. We are thrilled to have Amersham close. We look forward to talking to you more about it and we continue to see the strength in the portfolio that we saw in the first quarter going into the second quarter giving us that operating margin improvement.  

On the right-side is NBC. Team had a very strong quarter. Revenues up 8 and operating profit up 15. We had very strong ad revenue at both the network and Bravo and Telemundo and we also have some favorable comparisons to last year's first quarter because of the impact of the Iraq war. Look at the team's performance in the quarter and it is tremendous. Our scatters a little bit up versus last years up front, we expect the next up front to be good. We won the February sweeps and the key demos, 18-49, adults. The schedule is performing very well. Telemundo ratings are great. Jeff showed you the numbers on that.  

We have got 75% of the prime schedule we're producing ourselves and the ratings are up 50%. Bravo strength continues the ratings are up 100%. 30% growth in revenue and op profit and in the second quarter we see the op profit up about 5-10. The network will continue strong. We are looking forward to a great up front. Friends and Frasier we're going to have the finales on that and we're going to make some money there and we're going to have the toughest programming cost comparison as we've invested to resign things like Friends and Frasier and S Law & Order and then we're expecting the Universal closing in May which gives us a tremendous business platform. So NBC had a pretty good quarter and we're looking forward to the second quarter.  

Now go to advanced materials. This is a combination of plastics and silicone and quartz. Revenue is up 12. Op profit up 40. It's great to have this team executing the way they are commercially in the marketplace and see the results turn the way we expected them. Plastic sales volume was up 7%. The order rates were very healthy. The ADORs, the Average Daily Order Rates, were up 9%. Electrical, media Telecom were all up over 20%. Auto was down about 2% for us but Asia is up 30. Americas was up in single digits. Europe was about flat.  

So the volume is very strong and we are very very encouraged by it, it's very broad based, our OSI acquisitions performing well. Organic growth is up over 6%. Quartz demand is very strong. We're really in a nice cycle here. Quartz sales were up 26%. Operating profit was up over (INAUDIBLE)%. And we had great cash performance. Two times net income. So this team is really performing. The op profit is up in plastics over 50% despite the inflation from Benzene so we are continuing to get the offset to that, we think we're really running the business well commercially, as I said, and we look forward to the second quarter.  

Again operating profit up more than 20%. If you look at the momentum we have here the ADORs, the Average Daily Order Rates for the quarter they were 6.2 thousand metric tons a day. The last eight weeks were 7 thousand metric tons a day, the last four weeks were 7.3 thousand tons a day. So you know we've got some momentum here. The price is stable. It's up three cents in the second quarter versus first quarter. We built a backlog of about $65 million. And we are dealing with the Benzene inflation. We expect about $2 a gallon in the second quarter. We closed the first quarter at $1.90 and we closed April at $2.35 so we're dealing with the inflation, we got great volume, and we're managing the costs, and it's nice to see the profit turn as we said.  

On the right-side is infrastructure, tremendous performance in the quarter. Revenue up 15 and operating profit up 20. You can see the numbers here for sensing orders organically up 18%. Security. Demand is strong. Videos up 20. Thrilled about the acquisition of InVision to build out the platform here. We continue to build out water services. We opened a plant in China. Just to give you some of the orders numbers for the quarter on a reported basis orders were 29% up in the segment. Order was up 37. Security was up 44. Sensing up 10. Fanic (ph) was up 15. And even in total up 29 X acquisitions up 14. So we have got broad-based growth here. We've got a great position as we enter the second quarter from the Q1 backlog growth. And nice profitability so we are very happy with the growth businesses here.  

Insurance. Again, if you look at the results, revenue down 7 and income down 20. It is impacted by the sales of our Edison business life insurance in Japan and the auto business in the U.S. and the Fidjicmon (ph) insurance business that we did last year. X dispositions the net income for the insurance segment is up 7% in the quarter. If you look at the pieces, ERC, 140 million net up 16%. That is continued solid pricing and operational execution. We had a very strong operational performance across PNC reinsurance in the business. We did strengthen reserves also in the quarter. Even with that result we strengthened reserves by $60 million after-tax for adverse development so we continue to work through ERC but the results are strong. Other insurance so the balance X ERC is 270 million net. Up 2% X for dispositions. We're seeing some good momentum in the life business and long-term care segments.  

The international mortgage growth continues to be strong and some of that performance is offset by lower gains. We don't have any pro forma results for the Genworth IPO yet . We will be updating those filings as we go through the process with the SEC. When you look at where we are with the IPO, we are on track for a early May offering. We're in the final stages of both SEC and insurance regulatory approval. We plan to sell about 30% of the IPO. And we will sell down the remaining position as soon as it is practical. So we got a great team and they are really on track to execute this in the second quarter. Let me turn it back over to Jeff.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Great. Thanks, Keith. Just wanted to give you a kind of a strategic update, and give you an update on some of the deals and how they are closing. You know we've talked for a long time about a three-part strategy to sustain a strong business model and I think what Keith just took you through is pretty good evidence of that. 9 of 11 businesses growing double digits, good cash flow and balance sheet performance, and good operational capability. To accelerate organic growth and we're seeing global revenue grow 11%. Service revenue at 8. We've added 1.3 billion of CSAs in launching new products and the growth platform is growing and the strength in the portfolio. So we've got the closure of Amersham, we announced In Vision and both Genworth and Universal are on track.  

So we continue to execute a consistent strategy and focus on building a great company for the future. One of the big wins we have had is just a demonstration of the long-term investments we've made in technology on the Boeing 77 Dreamliner with the Genex GE engine. It is really about perpetuating technical leadership and creating leadership in the future. There will be between 2 and 3,000 aircraft sold over 20 years. This is supported by many industry estimates and our view of the aircraft is very solid. It really builds on the technology investments we have made consistently. We have invested even through this down cycle as much as a billion dollars a year in R&D and so this builds on that very strong base.  

There is very solid customer interest in the aircraft globally. But we're also seeing and importantly we're seeing real interest in important places like China where this aircraft has a very strong fit. This is going to open up years of long-term service potential and future growth. It has always been important for our business and it continues the partnership with Boeing. It is just a demonstration that innovation wins and I think if you look at this industry in commercial aviation from the new joint venture with Honda, through regional jets, narrow bodies, wide bodies up through the range GE just has, you know, broad and long-term leadership that we think we can continue to build on profitably for the future and we are very excited about our positioning in this industry.  

The growth initiatives again continue to represent real strength for us. Services we continue to make great progress. Operating profit was up 13%. We had engine spares at average daily order rate up 12%. Energy orders were up 16%. Healthcare orders up 11%. So we are seeing great growth initiatives in services. And our growth platforms are really executing our strategy. We have revenue growth up almost 30%. The services franchise and waters up 29%. Security is growing 17%. We're winning with new programming at telemundo. Healthcare information technology is at a $2.7 billion revenue run rate and these were businesses that essentially we weren't in three or four years ago so the growth initiatives are performing well and really accelerating and providing a great future.  

I wanted again to talk a little bit about the acquisitions. This gives you a sense of GE healthcare and the profile of the business kind of post closing with Amersham and on the top left-hand side it gives you a sense of the financials that exclude the one-time noncash impacts. And it really shows, you know, assuming the Amersham closure today that the business goes from about $10 billion in revenue with $1.7 billion of op profit in '03 to $14 billion and $2.3 billion of op profit in '04 to $16 billion and $3 billion of op profit in '05. The revenue, you know, '05 to '03 is up 60% and the op profit '05 to '03 is up 76%. So very strong substantial business and a very strategic acquisition. We've issued 342 million shares to complete the acquisition and again I would say in the next 30 days we will have the impact of IP R&D and the noncash purchase accounting charges that are associated with this.  

The highlights are the Amersham business is in great shape. All its key products are growing in a very substantial way and the pipeline is very robust right now. We've been tracking -- Keith and I have been working very aggressively with the integration teams. and I always look at these deals on two levels. The first one is what are the synergies that are required for us to hit our financial plan and again these are really on track. We had $100 million in our financial plan '04. 80% of those are now identified and 250 million in '05, 50% identified. This is very standard vis-a-vis the way we look at previous acquisitions. Then we always launch once we close real upside drivers. Things that can drive additional upside to the base case. In the case of GE healthcare we have got eight growth drivers that we have launched that are really can produce even better results.  

An example in ultrasound we are combining our ultrasound sales force business with the diagnostic pharmaceutical ultrasound business within Amersham. We have consolidated all the service businesses inside the GE healthcare service organization so we really see upside with Amersham's equipment businesses and what our service business can drive and China has always been a pretty consistent up side for us, as we can integrate companies that don't have quite the same presence. But, the bottom line is we really have established a real leader for the future in healthcare and we feel great about how the businesses look as we sit here today. Similarly, on NBC Universal, the funding is complete. We anticipate closure in the second quarter of this year. Again this business goes from $7 billion of revenue and $2 billion of op profit in '03 to -- then NBC Universal will have $12 billion of revenue and $2.4 billion of op profit in '04 and then $15 billion of revenue and $3.1 billion of op profit in '05.  

The Universal businesses are in very strong shape. The recent movies have been well received. Both USA and Sci-Fi show improved ratings this year. Again similar to Amersham. We have got great deal synergies on track. $100 million loaded in '04. 90% identified and $300 million in '05. 80% identified and we've also identified key growth drivers that are going to establish upside for the future. In cable we think we can improve the programming and branding. We think there is great opportunity to accelerate DVD sales and working harder with the library and real progress I think in promotion and cross-selling. So we're on track for May close, but again I think the way to think about these businesses really is that these businesses are going to generate between in excess of $700 million of net income in '05 and really give us a very fast growth set of industrial businesses going forward in the future.  

KEITH SHERIN: Jeff, let me just take one look at 2004 EPS guidance now that we have talked about the first and second quarter. On the left-side, our original EPS guidance for the year that we gave you last November was $1.55 to $1.65. And with what we've talked about in the first half with the first quarter at 32 cents from operation and second quarter 39 cents with being at the high end that obviously increases the bottom of the range. So we're -- you know when you look at the total year now we are basically dealing with $1.59 to $1.65. Today we are also confirming the guidance that we have given of the deals impact which we previously said was 5 cents. Principally Genworth lost earnings from the share impact of Amersham and Universal and then that takes you to a post deal EPS of $1.54 to $1.60.  

And then the final pieces, you know, these numbers exclude the impact of the purchase accounting at Amersham which is the in-process research and development write off that is required to be taken as well as the inventory and term market value write-offs, and then any gain or loss that we have on the sale of the 35% of Genworth in the IPO. So as you said, we are about 30 days away from being able to kind of firm up these estimates and communicate them to everybody but that is the way the guidance for the year now lays out with the higher estimates in the first and second quarter. Then I thought I would take one other look at the 2005 outlook. We have shown you this chart before. And how we feel about the portfolio going into next year. First of all, at the top of the stack is energy. 2004 is the bottom of the bubble. We see double digit growth for '05. Service and end units are attracting to plan. We've got great global growth in China and Iraq. Oil and gas wins. So we feel very good about that and I think we got a lot of credibility based on the forecasts we had here. In the middle of the growth engines.  

This is really a continuation of the performance we see in 2004 and on top of that you get the benefit from the deals. When you get into 2005 we will be out of the phase where we have more deal costs and integration costs and the one-timers and into the positive synergy momentums so we are really feeling great about what our healthcare business and entertainment media business at NBC Universal will be having for us and we think we will continue to have favorable markets for transportation and the growth platforms as we showed you and the buildout of the infrastructure will continue and just a tremendous outlook for commercial and consumer finance as we go into '04 and '05.  

Then on the bottom the cash generators. We are not counting on a lot here. We're counting on another good year. But, if you look at the leverage we are getting today in our cash generator businesses, with a little economic pick-up we think those favorable markets will continue and good execution will continue as always in GE and the Genworth IPO is on track and then we'll deal with pension as a noncash change in 2005, whatever it is. We're going to have to see what that is based on both the pension fund return this year as well as interest rates but we have very strong momentum when you look forward and you look at the strength of this portfolio.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Great. Thanks, Keith. And so I will just wrap up I think a couple of messages. Results very solid as Keith said. Taking the low end of the range out and having the range hit 1 $1.59 to $1.65. Broad based momentum. I think more importantly we're seeing real strength across the company as I said earlier kind of the broadest strength we have seen in several years. The company is stronger than ever. Triple A rated. Great balance sheet. Consistent double digit cash flow, the financial services asset quality is very strong, and values continue to drive momentum.  

We are executing on portfolio transformation as planned. We are really creating a faster growth industrial company. A more capital efficient financial service company and '04 is kind of working just the way we thought and really gives us great tail wind as we look at the future. So feel great about the company and looking forward to having your questions. Bill.  

WILLIAM CARY: Great, thanks, Jeff and Keith. We would like to now have Nicole, open the call up for questions and take it from there.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen if you wish to ask a question, please press star one on your telephone. If your question has been answered or you wish to withdraw your question please press star two. Out of courtesy to all participants please limit yourself to one question. Our first question comes from Kerry Sturten of Bernstein. Your question, please.  

KERRY STURTEN (ph), ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you. Just obviously the growth story is unfolding here really well, it was a great quarter. But, I did have a question about healthcare. You know, with sales up 17% and operating profit up 11%, just trying to figure out, you know, why that relationship exists where profit isn't up as much. Is it all related to the CT and MR equipment sales, volumes there, are you playing a sort of market share approach on pricing in Europe given foreign exchange right now? Just can you talk a little bit about why there is what I perceive to be a gap there.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: You know Kerry, what I would say is that there is at least two factors going on. One is that, you know, as Keith mentioned the CT and MR orders are higher margin rates so it is a worst mix and we still have some of the acquisition related expenses with Instrumentarian so you have the revenue without the full earnings fall through and really the combination of those two things, I think, explain the entire gap between 17 and 11.  

KERRY STURTEN (ph): Okay.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Deane Dray of Goldman Sachs. Your question, please.  

DEANE DRAY, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. Good morning. First as a clarification on the first quarter results what would be the industrial sales X acquisitions and X FX and then a question on your outlook on energy, please.  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, FX is probably 3 to 4 points both industrial and capital. Acquisitions, you know, it is -- if you look at acquisitions and dispositions, it is basically offset because we have the insurance dispositions so it is kind of offset if you look at if in total. We have a little bit of revenue growth from the acquisitions. More on the capital side not so much on the industrial side and then the dispositions are probably offsetting most of that.  

DEANE DRAY: Good. And then if we go back to your '05 outlook on energy when you talk about a 15% and this is the first growth rate we have seen post bubble, how much of that growth is coming from backlog both from services and units you expect to deliver and how much are you just waiting for further confirmation on orders?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we're going have to -- we have obviously a nice backlog with the services businesses and the TSAs which is a third of the service business there now. The rest of that service business comes in and parts flow and it is pretty steady. As long as people are generating power that is going to come in. The oil and gas backlog has come up but in terms of how much of that relates to '05 we have to update you as we get closer to EPG. I think we are very solid on the backlog that we have for '04 for both gas turbines, steam turbines, oil and gas. Wouldn't be typical for us to have a big backlog number for equipment for '05 here.  

DEANE DRAY: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jeff Sprague at Smith Barney. Your question, please.  

JEFFREY SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Thanks. Good morning. First just a clarification on Q2. The 39 cents excludes deal impact, but kind of looking at the stronger momentum that you have, I'm just -- and the fact that maybe Genworth is happening a little later than you might have thought, that, you know, that actually you could be comfortable with that number including the deal impact given the orders and everything else that is going on?  

KEITH SHERIN: Well, we -- you know, we that talked all along about having a little bit of an impact from both Amersham and Vivendi and if you look at the supplemental data we say it is probably 2 cents from the deals in the quarter including the lost earnings at Genworth. We do anticipate Genworth going early in May and we won't have that segment of earnings any more and that is just going to be the reality. We are working on the portfolio, we are seeing a lot of great momentum, obviously in the orders and in the execution. And, you know, I feel really good about kind of the numbers we've laid out there for your but we will update you at EPG as we get closer and obviously we'd love to have it be better, too.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Jeff, I think we will have the same kind of momentum we got in the first quarter. We'll have probably nine business growing double digit and with both great revenue and bottom line growth so we think that is going to be sustained.  

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Okay. Great. And on power, just looking at the progression in the backlog that you have. Is it conceivable that power profits are up in the fourth quarter or is it really Q1 '05' before we see a kind of year-over-year profit turn in the business.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: No, I think it is king to be close when we get to the end of the year. It's going to be close but I think it is clearly that we start to turn the quarter fully in the first quarter of '05.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah. I think the turn starts in the fourth quarter, Jeff, but I think you will see it in the first quarter. Again, the way I would think about this is our service business in energy is, continues to execute very well. I think you a ought to look at that with a great deal of stability. The unit sales are actually, you know, kind of on the high end of what we have been talking about. Global sales are very strong. And so we feel pretty good about, you know, how the global kind of power business looks right now. And basically it is unfolding kind of the way we have seen it? If you look at the first and second quarter just X the terminations, Jeff. You are talking about high single digit downs, 8-9% down in the first and second quarter and right now the op profit estimate and our plan for the fourth quarter is a single digit positive.  

JEFFREY SPRAGUE: Great, thanks a lot.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Inch of Merrill Lynch. Your question, please.  

JOHN INCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, John.  

JOHN INCH: Hi, just on GE capitals tax rate, 22% was higher than a year-ago, do you think it's going to be higher for the year which alludes to a higher quality earnings? Why is that, Keith? Could you maybe just walk through some of the drivers behind the differences this year versus last year.  

KEITH SHERIN: Sure. The rates for the quarter is 22%. Up about five and half points from last year. There is really one main factor and then another little one that I have here. The main factor is we've had pretty good growth in pretax income and over 80% of that growth in pretax income has come in the U.S. And those are obviously earnings that are taxed at a higher rate and so that is a little over 3 points of the impact. And then in addition, with with the higher pretax income we also have some higher state taxes and we have a little lower mix of less insurance earnings which drive some of those higher state taxes as well in terms of mix.  

JOHN INCH: Okay. And then Jeff, in terms of China, what were your sales there this quarter and where do you see total company China sales ending for the year?  

JEFFREY IMMELT: The total sales are somewhere in the 3.5 billion, you know, $3.5 billion to $4 billion range, John, for the year. And just to kind of give you a sense of the plastics orders were up 40% in the first quarter. Medical was up 15%. Power was very, you know, very strong in terms of completing the bundled buy. The engines orders again are very strong there. So the orders are up, do you guys have a number on that one, Bill? , the total?  

WILLIAM CARY: John, what? I'm sorry. John, we'll have to get you the total China orders for the quarter.  

JOHN INCH: Well that's fine I'm just wondering if China, I think, based on the 5 billion target you laid out before, Jeff, does it appear that China is heading to exceed those expectations? Based on what you are seeing today?  

JEFFREY IMMELT: I think, John, what you are going see this year is going to be 30-40%. So the internal goal we had to hit five by next year was 3.6 and I think we are right on track to do that.  

JOHN INCH: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley. Your question, please.  

SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks operator. Good morning, everybody.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Good morning, Scott.  

KEITH SHERIN: Good morning, Scott.  

SCOTT DAVIS: I was wondering if we could focus a little bit on some risks out there. Maybe some three standard aviation events something like an air Canada liquidation and some of your U.S. Air exposure and just talk about, a little bit how you are positioned to handle those risks and maybe refresh your exposure there.  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, just from an exposure perspective we have done a hell of a job managing our risk at both Air Canada and U.S. Air. We obviously are secured in our position. We feel like whatever risk we have is reserved. And, you know, I think we're prepared for the worst. We don't want it to happen and we are working on obviously being very constructive but I don't see it as something that you know as you refer to a three standard aviation event. We are really pretty confident about kind of where we are with both those carriers today.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Can you refresh that exposure a little bit? How much at each?  

KEITH SHERIN: In Air Canada, the numbers I have, Air Canada what I have is about $2.6 billion. Total. And U.S. Air we're looking at about $2.5 billion excluding the unfunded regional debt commitments.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: And again, I would just, you know, Scott, again the assets we feel great about the assets in both places and with no planes on the ground and kind of the remarketing and other scales we've got, you know, this business is in as good a shape as it has been in since 9/11 for sure.  

SCOTT DAVIS: Fair enough.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Martin Sanky (ph) of Neuberger Berman (ph). Your question, please.  

MARTIN SANKY (ph), ANALYST, NEUBERGER BERMAN: The question I would have is -- is two-fold. You know, we mentioned the tax rate by both GE manufacturing and GE capital sort of bouncing around this quarter. Are we going to see a similar tax rate moves as the quarters progress just as, just due to the unevenness of things or can we model a consistent tax rate?  

KEITH SHERIN: Martin, I think if you look at the page we had on the first quarter results where I talked about the tax rates. I didn't talk about it. I should have. The total year estimates for us on the industrial tax rate right now that we're using is 24-26%. So the first quarter rate does reflect what our total year estimate is and, you know, we expect to have it somewhere in that range. So we're right on track and I -- you know, the one thing that I would say is that, you know, when you look at the deals we have to look at what the impact of some of those transactions will be but right now that is our estimate including everything we know. And GE Capital at 22% we've modeled the full year at 20-22.  

MARTIN SANKY (ph): Okay. So that would include the Genworth impact.  

KEITH SHERIN: That does include what we have for Genworth today.  

MARTIN SANKY (ph): Okay. And similarly for the dilution while you estimate it's going to be 5 cents for the year and I think you mentioned earlier in the Q&A, two cents for the second quarter?  

KEITH SHERIN: Right.  

MARTIN SANKY (ph): Does it sort of go two and one or at three and out?.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, we've put on the website. We think it's about two cents in the second quarter. About two cents in the third quarter and about a penny in the fourth quarter. And that's the way we have it kind of modeled out. As we said we're about 30 days away from being able to update you on that as well as you know the impact of the other noncash stuff.  

MARTIN SANKY (ph): Okay, Thanks.  

KEITH SHERIN: Yep.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Dan of Khoshaba of KSA Capital Partners. Your question, please.  

DANIEL KHOSHABA, ANALYST, KSA CAPITAL PARTNERS: Thank you. My question has already been asked. Good quarter.  

KEITH SHERIN: Thanks.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Thank.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. Your questions please.  

ROBERT CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yeah, thanks everybody. Following up on some of the capital tax, the capital issues. Does look like the GE capital earnings were conservatively stated, to mean you throw out the tax rate question. The provision for losses on financing receivables is up 25% and change in the quarter. I mean, why is that, Keith and it does suggest a conservatively stated quarter?  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Well, the provision for losses is what it needs to be based on the risks we have in the portfolio. It is really driven by asset growth. If you look at the coverage, reserve coverage as a percent of financing assets is right about consistent with what it has been. 1.67% is the number. So we're really right on track with what we've been doing. I think what you're seeing there, Bob, is just tremendous growth in the consumer finance assets and as a result we have to make sure we have our reserves commensurate with whatever we have in the risk in that portfolio.  

ROBERT CORNELL: Yeah, just on that subject you mentioned that securitization gains were down, I think in the consumer portfolio. What were they down for the whole set of businesses for the quarter and what do you expect for the year?  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Securitization in the quarter was $17 million in net income. Last year we had actually a negative in securitization as we ran off our Home Depot securitization portfolio so, you know, the total for the quarter was 17. And we have basically been saying it's going to be 2 to $300 million of securitization for the year in total.  

ROBERT CORNELL: What was last year.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: It was about the same. About $200 million.  

ROBERT CORNELL: Just a final question on the engine equipment, the gas turbine business what is going on with pricing on those units and especially where are you pricing the unit units you are selling in the China market.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Bob, I think pricing is tough. You know it's certainly tougher than it was during the bubble. I would say that, you know, it is not so much China, I mean I think Europe pricing is certainly below last year. Again, the -- the units are better, the units are stronger than what we have seen. And the service pricing and the service growth continues to be very attractive. So, you know, we have taken a lot of cost out of the business so we have got capability to, you know, to run even the gas turbine unit business and remain profitable even as we go through the bubble.  

ROBERT CORNELL: You guys have said that the engine equipment business, the gas turbine, steam (INAUDIBLE) would be about break even this year. Is that the way it is looking. Sounds like it is if doing a little better than that.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: It will do a little better, I think, Bob. Again, I think, the volume is a little bit better. We have done a good job on the cost out. The pricing is tougher for sure. But, you know, the business is executing pretty well. I think just to echo what Keith said on the financial services, Bob, I think if you go back over the past couple of years I think if you look at the strength of the business from a, you know, from a portfolio standpoint a risk management standpoint is as good as we've had it for the last couple of years.  

ROBERT CORNELL: Yeah. Looks good.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks, Bob.  

WILLIAM CARY: Nicole, I think we've got time for about one more question if we have it, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question is from Brian Langberger of Langberger and Company (ph).  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph), ANALYST, LANGBERGER AND COMPANY: Hey, my last is getting longer as the call goes. Just a couple things. Diving down a little bit. Infrastructure and healthcare you ran through some numbers that sounded really good but a bit quickly. If you could first take infrastructure and just talk about year-over-year sales and profit change for water, sensing and security. And then maybe talk about the orders in each of those and go a little bit slower and kind of break out what the core number would be if you took out deals and currency and also in healthcare you gave some pretty strong numbers. Again, if you could take out the currency and deal impact and talk about the underlying that would be very helpful?  

KEITH SHERIN: Let me five you a little bit about infrastructure. I did go through those pretty quickly. For starters if you look in the quarter, first quarter, you go orders reported basis, water was 37%.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Plus 37 water uh-huh.  

KEITH SHERIN: Security 44%.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Uh-huh.  

KEITH SHERIN: Sensing up 10%.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Got it.  

KEITH SHERIN: And our Fanic business up 15. So overall 29% up on a reported basis.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Yeah.  

KEITH SHERIN: You know, if you strip out the impact of acquisitions we have I don't have a separate number for FX but strip out acquisitions water was up 8. Securities up 34. Sensing up 18. Fanics up about 5. So, you know, overall a pretty broad great organic growth in that portfolio. I don't have the operating profits by each of those segments but it is all up around that 20%.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Okay. This is certainly helpful. And move over to healthcare.  

KEITH SHERIN: Healthcare, you know, I gave you some of the revenues in the quarter.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Yeah. Those are the numbers I was asking for if we were to take out deals and currency.  

KEITH SHERIN: There aren't a lot of separate numbers for deals in some of these businesses. I mean (INAUDIBLE) is kind of the business. PET up 15. Packs up 18. China up 20. MR down 15 and CT flat were the revenue in the quarter.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Got those.  

KEITH SHERIN: And again, most of those don't have any real transaction impacts.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): What about currency.  

KEITH SHERIN: You know on total for the company it is three to four points so I would say it is probably similar.  

BRIAN LANGBERGER (ph): Okay. Thank you very much.  

KEITH SHERIN: Great, thanks.  

JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks. Look, I just I want to conclude by thanking everybody. I thought they were great questions. As I said, this was a great week for GE between the 77 award and closing Amersham and closing out a good first quarter with with a lot of good momentum for Q2 and we feel great about where the company is and we think we got a ton of momentum. Bill, I will turn it back over to you.  

WILLIAM CARY: Great. Jeff and Keith, thanks very much. I just want to thank everybody for their time and attention this morning. As I mentioned all the materials that we reviewed today are on our web site and we ask that you have a chance to spend some time with those. JoAnn and I will be available this afternoon to take your questions. And again thanks very much for your time.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude your conference call for today. You may all disconnect and thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
gecapt : General Electric Capital Corporation | gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150104 : Sales Financing | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040422e0480008f
  


 HD
 Q1  2003  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
14,128 words
   PD
11 April 2003
   ET
12:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen. And welcome to the General Electric first quarter 2003 conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. 

 My name is Nicole, I would be your conference coordinator today. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please press star followed by zero and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. 

   TD
 As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. 

 I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Richard Wacker, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed, sir. 

 RICHARD WACKER, VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Good morning everyone. JoAnna Morris and I would like to welcome you to our first quarter earnings conference call. 

 You've received the press release this morning. We have posted additional materials on our website at www.GE.com/investor. If you refresh your browser, you will be able to get the downloaded materials there, the materials we'll use during the conference call, as well as a deck of supplemental schedules that we've been posting with the slides. You can download those and take notes if you like. 

 We'll also have a webcast replay of the call on this afternoon and you'll be able to come back in and listen to the call again. 

 Before we begin, this presentation contains in addition to the first quarter results, certain forward-looking statements that are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Obviously, situations can change and we ask that you interpret them in that light. We also, in connection with the new SEC guidelines, have provided reconciliation materials on the website. If we use at the company level, non-GAAP measures, such as cash flow from operating activities that surprise us, we do reconcile those back to total cash flow from operating activities. And those materials are on the site. 

 This morning, we will cover, as I said, first quarter results and a little bit of an outlook on second quarter and the rest of the year. We have Jeff Immelt, the CEO and Chairman of GE and Keith Sherin, the CFO here to do that for you, so let's get to it and I'll turn it over to Jeff Immelt. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT, CHARIMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Rich. Good morning everyone. 

 The first chart basically just takes you back to December had when we talked about having really five major objectives for the year. The first was to achieve broad based business growth to really show the strength of GE which was the diversity across the portfolio and the strength in some of our long-cycle businesses, most of financial services, a great service portfolio. And using those to help us offset really a lower gas turbine shipment and managing through the gas turbine bubble. We wanted to continue to drive a very strong balance sheet, having a solid AAA, great cash flow and cash disciplines. To make solid progress on our portfolio, to continue to invest in higher returning platforms. Reduce volatility in financial services. And to execute on growth initiatives, on technology and growth in Asia and China, services and customer centricity. 

 So today's really an update on the - where we stand. Our first quarter will come in at 32 cents per share and we have no change to the total year target of $1.55 to $1.70. 

 Just kind of an overview of the environment of some of the things going on in the first quarter, you know, we've always said that we're in a period, that we view this economy as a period of slow economic growth. The war added some uncertainty and that's what we expected affirm and that's really what we've seen. There's been some more impact, there's still excess capacity industrially, and there's some pricing pressure that that causes as we have kind of dealt with the impact of the war in Iraq, we've had oil inflation and broadcasting were impacted. That really hurt our plastics business while NBC was still able to offset some of the expenses they incurred and did a really great job. 

 In this environment, you know, really a major asset is our technology and services portfolio. So our medical and aircraft engines and transportation businesses all had very strong growth. And our service revenues were up 20% in the first quarter. And again, in a slow-growth environment, that is an incredibly strong asset. We're making in a orderly transition from the gas turbine bubble to a broad based energy technology company, power systems was better than expected and we've accelerated restructuring benefits. 

 Financial services results are solid. Commercial and consumer earnings are up. The ERC turn around's on track, our asset quality's in good shape, we are seeing some pressure on our short cycle equipment management businesses. We have got excellent execution on fundamentals and initiatives. A very strong cash performance on industrial cash ex-progress is up 22%. We remain a solid AAA with funding on schedule and our growth platforms that we've been talking about being security, water, oil and gas, and the key healthcare IT, the key growth platforms had solid double digit top line growth organically. We're really big in China and very well positioned in the future. 

 So I think what we're building, at the same time we're executing in this environment, is that as the economy strengthens, we've got some great platforms for growth and again, delivered in this challenging environment. If you look at just some specific wins in the first quarter, and I've kind of grouped these according to some of the imperatives and initiatives, we told you last year that our medical business launched more new products in 2002 than really in any year, and we're getting some of the dividends from that. The R&O orders are up 18%. We had 125 orders for 16-slice CT's. We have by far the biggest installed base there. We have reached $2 billion of wind turbine orders and commitments since we acquired the wind business, and so that's very strong. It really complements to NBC, and MSNBC news that were really critically acclaimed in leadership coverage of the Iraq conflict. 

 I would acknowledge a real regret that we have of the loss of our friend and colleague, David Bloom, who was doing an excellent job covering the war for NBC and MSNBC and his lost will be missed and our sincerest sympathies go out to his family. He just was a fabulous man and key contributor. 

 We had some service wins in the first quarter. Several multi-year service agreements in our engines business, our power systems CFAs, at 29 billion, over 20% more units than last year. Some big customer wins. We have $2.6 billion of GE Aircraft Engine orders, we're gaining share in regional jets and low-cost carriers winning lots of deals. 

 Our new vendor finance program for [Terex] 10 years, $7 billion deal, and some big wins on private label credit card programs. And we're growing globally, we won 60% of the China gas turbine bundle buy, 13 gas turbines we're gaining share in our power business in Europe. And we added $7 billion in assets through the First National Bank acquisition in the U.K. 

 On new platforms we closed the Osmonics acquisition. Our water business now has about a billion 1/2 dollar run rate. We acquired Conseco's U.S. personal loan business to strengthen our position in the U.S. From a risk management standpoint we leave the quarter with only six aircraft on the ground at Gcass and our ERC losses are on plan with stable delinquencies in commercial and consumer finance. 

 So solid growth, on strategy, we're executing the plan we outlined for you in a difficult environment. And with that, I'll turn it over to Keith to kind of take you through some of the financials. 

 KEITH SHERIN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT OF FINANCE, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thanks, Jeff. 

 Let me start with a summary of the first quarter results. Here's the income statement on the left side with some other measurements. Revenues at $30.3 billion, down 1%. You can see industrial sales at $15.8 billion, were down 6%. In the financial services business, $14.7 billion of revenue was up 6% and when you look at contributed value where you strip out the impact of interest rates on our financing and operating businesses, that was up 10% for the financial services businesses. 

 Net earnings on a reported basis were $3 billion. That takes into account the accounting changes. 

 Last year we adopted FAS 142, accounting for goodwill and we had an impairment charge and this year we adopted FAS 143 accounting for asset retirement obligations, which also had an accounting charge effective 1/1 and the net of those two gives you a $3 billion up 20% earnings fee. The way we've been reporting the company, excluding the effect of the accounting charges, $3.2 billion of earnings down 9% and in line with expectations. Same store for EPS at 32 cents, down 9%. 

 We had a good quarter on cash flow, CFOA, cash flow from operating activities ex-progress, was 2.2 billion, which was flat with last year and I'll show you the pieces of that. I'm sure a lot of you would say that it's good. But I think you've got to step back from the quarter from the income statement and look at the normalized kind of view of how we're running the company. 

 First of all, everyone knows we're having a significant impact on our financial performance from the power systems decline and the gas turbine shipments. So when you take out power from our results, and last year i the first quarter we had the Salt Lake City Olympics, about $700 million of revenue, you compare excluding power and excluding Olympics, the industrial company was up 7% revenues. So the balance of the company is performing very well. 

 Earnings, excluding the impact of power, year-over-year is up 5%. And the industrial cash flow, as Jeff said, that's probably - it's up 22% and I'll show you the difference between the total cash flow and the industrial cash flow on the cash page. 

 Now in the box only the bottom, I just want to point out the tax rates, our industrial tax rate, so excluding the impact of GE Capital, was 31.7%. Basically, that's flat with the 2001 and the 2002 rate. If you adjust 2002 for some of the unusual tax benefits we had from things like the Bravo transaction and the IRS settlement on Code W, it was down about 4.9 points from the first quarter last year and in line with what we expect for the year. And then the GE Capital, the financial services tax rate at 16.1 is also down slightly from last year in the first quarter but certainly higher than what we experienced last year and in line with what we expect for the total year. So the first quarter earnings were as we expected, and let me jump over to cash flow. 

 The left side is cash flow from operating activities ex-priors. As you can see, $2.2 billion is flat with last year. But we have reduced the dividends that we received from GE Capital. Last year we received a dividend of 32% of the earnings, we reduced that to 10% this year as we continue to reduce the parent support in GE Capital by leaving more retained earnings there. That's down about 300- a little over $300 million as we planned, and then you can see the industrial cash flow from operating activities ex-progress is actually up over $300 million, up 22%. So we had a decline in income in the industrial business, which was driven by the power systems results, which I'll go through in more detail, which was more than offset by very strong working capital performance in receivables and inventory giving us that up 22% performance. And then CFOA, including the impact of progress payments, you can see a billion six in 2003 was up 8%. So we're still having progress decline in the power systems business this year but it's declining less than it did last year and it's on track for what we expected. 

 So, in the quarter, we returned about $2 billion to shareholders with our dividends and the share repurchase and we're currently operating with a yield of just under 3%. On the right side I show the cash balance. What's the cash in the bank and the impact of cash flow from operating activities, financing activities and investing all in one. The beginning balance was $1.1 billion, we ended at $1.3 billion, so cash, balance was up 200. We had the cash flow from operating activites of $2.2 billion which we used for our dividends and our stock repurchase on a P&E. 

 We had a little bit of acquisition activity in the quarter, $100 million and progress collections declined about 600 million as I said. So the debt balance is up net of cash about $900 million. 

 Double digit growth in industrial cash flow ex-progress, and we have a real focus on this, we have a monthly council led by our Vice Chairman and the businesses are doing a terrific job of delivering what we said. Right now, we're about a couple hundred million dollars better than planned at the end of the first quarter so feel pretty good about this performance. 

 The next page is on funding, we continue to have a very solid funding story. We ended the quarter in GE Capital at $276 million of debt. We had commercial paper in the range of 25% to 35% obviously at $82 billion,it's at the 30% range, liquidity lines are strong, maturities are extended, uhm so very strong liquidity performance. 

 On the right side is our plan for 2003 that we communicated a few times. We do plan to have lower long-term debt issuance, much lower than last years'. So we're counting on probably around $60 billion of debt. 

 Now the important point here is we did not add $88 billion in debt last year and we're not adding $60 billion this year. Last year we replaced short term debt with long term debt. We only added debt when we had asset growth which was about, as you can see on the left-hand side of the page, $30 billion last year and this year we're going to do about $60 billion of debt. 60% of that is replacing maturing long-term debt that we already have. So the balance will be growth dependent upon how we do in terms of asset growth and acquisitions. 

 We're off to a great start in the year. GE Capital issued about 15 1/2 billion dollars of long-term debt. Our retail program off to a pretty good start with internotes and a lot of the debt was issued in the global markets where we actually have the assets. So we've gone direct to the global markets and done a pretty good job of finding debt outside the U.S. in the markets where the assets are. And our spreads in the performance continues to be very strong in the marketplace. Demand is certainly exceeding supply. We've got great customer relationships and everything in terms of issuance has gone very well. 

 In the second quarter, I want to clear up one thing, we are going to replace the $5 billion GE shelf. Now, this is not going to issue $5 billion of debt, this is just a filing with the SEC to allow us, if we need to or want to, at some point in the future to be able to issue debt. We will replace the shelf on April 14th to give us some flexibility in terms of the capital markets going forward. So, that will happen next week. 

 And overall, we plan on doing a little more than 50% of the GE Capital needs in the first half. So in in the second quarter, we should be able to get ahead of what we need for the total year and strong balance sheet, strong liquidity position, we feel great about the funding plan and the execution. 

 Next page is a chart about the 2003 framework. It's the chart I showed in New York last week. Just a look at the scale on the bottom right, a checkmark says that the framework is consistent today, our view is consistent with what we said at the end of the year going into 2003. A negative is a little tougher,obviously, and a positive's a little better. 

 On the left side, we know we have these challenges, you know them, the gas turbine shipments are gonna decline. That's on track as planned. We're gonna have lower pension earnings for the total year. That is as planned. We do have more uncertainty, obviously, geopolitically that everyone's dealing with. But in the middle on the earnings outlook for us, we do have good visibility into engines, medical transportation, the services side of power systems. They're all very solid. We're positioned for growth in the short cycle, I'll show you the NBC results in the first quarter, the outlook for the second quarter. We are getting good growth in industrial and in specialty materials and consumers having a pretty good performance on the industrial side. 

 And at financial services, you saw last week at the investor presentation, the strength of our consumer and commercial finance businesses, and EMC turn around is on track. 

 We have talked about plastics being out of balance as a negative, and I'll show you what that means for us in terms of the results for the quarter and the outlook for the second quarter and the year. But overall, looking at the framework, we're still well positioned for the range of $1.55 to $1.70. 

 So the next page is a summary of the segment profit for the 13 GE businesses. The industrial businesses are on an operating profit - or a pretax basis. The GE capital businesses, financial services businesses on a net income basis. This is the way we'd like to portray the 13 businesses for 2003, we're going to break out power systems, obviously, because of the financial impact on the company, that's at the top. Power systems, I'll go through the results, is operating better than planned. With revenue down 20 and operating profit down about 42% in the quarter. 

 And then in the center of the page, we've got nine businesses who have had very strong performance. You can see the earnings of these in the quarter, and I'll go through some of the details of most of those segments. 

 And then down the bottom, we've got three businesses where we think we've got solid execution in very tough markets. Our story about the company, when you look at the performances, power systems is down as we planned, it's operating a little better than expected, but 8 out of the 13 businesses are delivering double digit profit growth. And that's [INAUDIBLE] strength in this environment. 

 Before I jump into the details of Q1 and Q2, I want to outline our current view of the environment. And these are factors you're all familiar with, but I thought it would be helpful to frame it up. First of all, we do continue to see slow economic growth. Everyone is talking about it, it's evidenced by our flat industrial orders in our core business. We continue to see deinflation in most markets, excess capacity in many industries. And that shows up in low utilization rates in rental businesses. We have seen oil prices start to decline. That impact should improve our raw materials and should improve the general economy. SARS is impacting travel and the consumer is stable, the credit quality is strong, both commercially and on the consumer side globally, I'll show you those details. And we are dealing with the war impact. So despite the uncertainty in this environment, we've got pretty good visibility for our results. Our outlook for Q2, we'll reaffirm today the December guidance of the 37 to 39 cents a share EPS in the second quarter and I'll take you through the pieces of what constitutes that. 

 This next page summarizes our outlook for the second quarter. The ranges of revenue and operating profit or net income for the 13 businesses. It's the same format as the Q1 page and really the whole quarter, second quarter will have a similar profile to the first quarter. You can see, power systems is gonna have revenue down, this is the toughest comparison we have in the power systems business based on the number of - the record shipments they had last year in the second quarter. Operating profit will be down about 50%. Again, in our world, that's a little better than we planned. And they continue to execute very well. 

 The nine businesses in the middle have good visibility and we think we're going to have pretty strong performance out of those businesses. And down at the bottom, again the three businesses in the second quarter will continue to have solid execution in very tough markets. 

 One thing you see there is the insurance, we say favorable, it's more than 100% positive V in the quarter. If you remember last year in the second quarter, we had some strengthening in charges in ERC that don't repeat, but that obviously gives us a favorable performance in that insurance segment. So total earnings will be in the 10 to 15% range. Ex-power will be, again, similar to the first quarter up 5 to 10. This total is consistent with our December presentation and I think we have a little tougher outlook than Q1 because of the power strength last year. I'll show you those details. But a similar profile again, 8 out of 13 double digit and up five to 10 ex-power, very broad power growth. Ex-power growth. 

 So let me cover the business specifics now, I'll go through some of the segments. Start with power systems. First, on a top left and in the quarter, we said revenue was down about 20%. That's really driven by shipping out of Greenville on the right side, you can see 33 gas turbines in the first quarter. Last year we shipped 69 gas turbines, so 36 less. And at over $30 million a piece, you can see the impact that's had on revenue. 

 The energy products business had sales down about 40%. And our industrial [INAUDIBLE] derivatives also had sales down over 50%, they shipped 13 versus 26 units. So that drives the revenue decline. It's partially offset by the strength that we had in energy services, in oil and gas and in wind, and I've shown some of those numbers across the bottom, you can see services revenues were up 21% in the first quarter, oil and gas had over 60% revenue growth in the first quarter, on track for a good year, and wind had $100 million in the quarter. We're just starting to ramp up on the total year plan. So the revenue story is driven by obviously the decline in gas turbine shipments. 

 Now, it's a similar story on the operating profit, operating profit's down 42%. That, again, is driven by the energy products and air derivatives decline, probably around $600 million pretax in those two businesses were also impacted because we have lower terminations in the first quarter than we had last year of about $110 million. So you can see the terminations pretax in the quarter of 194. In the first quarter last year we had over $300 million of benefit from terminations. So lower terminations in the quarter. 

 Again, that's partially offset by the strength in services, certainly, the strength in oil and gas, and then the wind business starting to ramp up. So more than a hundred million dollars of growth from those businesses that I list on the bottom. 

 So Q1 is better than expected. We accelerated our restructuring benefits. At the end of the first quarter, a lot of us have talked about the costs that we're going to take a billion dollars out of power systems. Energy products reduced their base cost by 25% and on an annualized basis that gives us about $450 million of the 650 we said we'd have out by the end of '04. That's ahead of schedule and that will continue to give us benefits into the second a and third quarter. 

 Second quarter, as I said, is our toughest comparison. We're gonna have operating profit down about 50%, and a decline of about 30% in revenue in the quarter. Again, that's driven by shipping 22 gas turbines in the second quarter, last year we shipped 86. So it's gonna be a decline of 64 units there as we planned. 

 A of couple of final points I'd make is, first; in terms of the total year gas turbines, we are on track for the 125 units, you can see the first and second quarter laid out and then the third and fourth quarter will give us the 125 for the year. Second; the total year terminations are also on plan. 194 pretax in the first quarter, somewhere between 150 to 200 in the second quarter, on track for the 500 to 600 for the year, which is down about 350 to 400 year-over-year on terminations. 

 And finally, I'd say the total year is on track for the plan. In the first and second quarter, 75% of the full-year profit decline that we expect in power systems is absorbed in the first half. So John Rice and his team are doing a great execution job managing the bubble down just like they managed it up and our services and growth platforms are very strong. 

 Shift to a couple other long-cycle businesses. First medical, Joe Hogan and the team had a great quarter in medical. As you can see, revenue was up 15%. Operating profit was up 15%. Good strong volume up 15%. We had price slightly down offset by FX. Really solid execution across the board. 

 You can see the revenues in healthcare IT were up 21%, ultrasound up 37%. America's, Europe and China were all up double digits. Japan is flat, which is what we expected. But the business team had strong productivity, we had over 10% base cost productivity. There were $74 million total cost productivity, and the orders were good. Q1 orders were up 12% globally, tax was 40%, ultrasound 25%, monitoring cardiology up 21%, services up 13%. So broad, broad orders performance that gives us confidence, the second quarter dynamics look good for operating profit up 10 to 15. We continue to count on Japan being weak, but the strength of ultrasound, the strength of healthcare IT, the strength in China give us a good profile for the second quarter up double digit. 

 On the right side, Dave Calhoun and the team also had a - they delivered a great quarter at aircraft engines, you can see the revenue down 8%. Basically the sales were down on lower engine deliveries but the service revenue was up 14% driven by the commercial and the military. You can see the services revenue in commercial was up 23% and our service run rate was about $10.9 million a day. 

 Our operating profit on that revenue decline was up 13%, it's driven by the growth in spares, and great productivity as a result of the cost-out that this team has done. So we had 12% base cost productivity in the engines business as a result of the head count reductions that the team has been taking on. A strong variable cost productivity. The total cost productivity here was around $100 million. 

 Now as we enter the second quarter, we can see the industry revenue passenger models are going down slightly. We have laid out the dynamics of the plan to kind of deal with an operating profit in the minus 5 to plus 5% range. We expect the spares average daily orders to be softer than they were in the first quarter and if you look at it, we think it's gonna be close to flat to last year which was around 9 1/5 to 9.7, and so it will be down double digits from the first quarter. That's our planning environment based on the things we see in the world today. We'll have to see how that unfolds but we think we've been pretty prudent. And we continue to take cost actions and the military business remains very strong in engines, giving pretty good results here. 

 Next I'll shift to NBC. Bob Wright and the team really delivered strong results in what I would characterize as a very challenging environment. You can see the sales, the revenue number we have ex the Olympics is up 15, very strong. We achieved a 10% operating profit growth despite the impact of the war. The final tally for the war in Q1 is about $65 million pretax. And you can see that was driven by the network preemptions, some reduced station ads and higher coverage costs. But today we're running at near normal levels. 

 When you look, how do we get that result? It's driven by the strength across the board of the platforms that Bob has. Number 1 in network, prime time, late night, morning and news, the pricing has been great. Scatter was up 39% over the up-front in the first quarter. We did a good job delivering the coverage and leveraging our news capability. The station has had a good quarter; The acquisitions are performing; The ratings at Telemundo up 36% since the war. 

 When you look forward at NBC with the dynamics, first of all we think the pricing continues to scatter. The second quarter's up 25% versus the up front and we're a little over 90% sold out, which is great news. And we'll have a little lower war impact, we're estimating about $30 million in the quarter, we'll have to see how that unfolds, which will result in operating profit up double digit 10 to 15%. So solid growth despite the impact of the war. 

 Next I'll shift to plastics. We talked about plastics being out of balance in the first quarter. This chart really shows the inflation and price dynamics that we're dealing with. On the top left is benzene, which is one of the most important raw materials we purchase for the plastic businesses, dollars per gallon. If you go back to the previous Gulf war, that's why we got the bar going back to the fourth quarter of '90, Iraq invaded Kuwait in August of 1990 and the war occurred in the first quarter, you can see that, in the fourth quarter of '90, benzene was about $1.80 a gallon. Oil, coincidently was at $32 a barrel. And then as the war unfolded and ended, benzene came back down to the $1.18 a gallon and oil went down into the low 20s. Now over the 10-year period from 92 to the first quarter benzene was about a dollar a gallon. And now with the things going on in the world last year, you saw oil rise, and as a result we also had benzene rising. 

 In the first quarter of this year, we averaged benzene at $1.80 a gallon. So you can see the impact of that inflation. And right now, the spot prices for benzene are down around $1.60. So we're starting to see some of the similar pattern that we've seen before. 

 What do we need to do with that? We have got to recover it in selling prices. You can see the selling prices, dollars per kilogram on the top right. In the first quarter we started broad price increases, we're working on them. We've realized about 1% price increase so far in the quarter, but we exited the first quarter at about a 3% increase on a run rate. We're counting on $2.85 to $2.90 in the quarter and in the second half to be higher than that. 

 How does that turn into a bottom line results for plastics? In terms of earnings, you can see for the first quarter we had volume up about 3%, we did get that 1% price, which was worth $9 million, but the raw material inflation in $90 million that was not recovered really impacted the operating profit. We delivered $91 million, which was down a little over 50% in the quarter. 

 When we look at the second quarter, we'll start with the volume dynamic, first of all last year in the second quarter we had very strong orders. If you remember, we saw a global surge in orders. We were watching as an inventory rebuild is economic rebound, turned out to be a lot of inventory rebuild. So we've got tougher comparisons. In addition, we're driving this price increase hard, and we have -our commodity lines are down about 15%, which we obviously know how to get that back. So volume, we're counting on somewhere between zero and down 10. Pricing we expect to recover $40 to $70 million and we think we can recover the impact of the material inflation in the second quarter which will result in the operating profit range of $135 to $165 million, down somewhere between 30% and 50 %. So we're covering the impact of inflation and dealing with volume in the marketplace. 

 And then for the second half, we need to get a little bit better volume, about 2% better than we've got last year. We think we can have more recovery on price and better dynamics on inflation. Obviously. So recovering more than what we've been realizing on the benzene pricing. We're getting traction on the price increases, oil is obviously stabilizing under $30 a barrel, we'll see where that thing goes, and we continue to take cost-out. So this dislocation continues. Our objective is to make sure that our price actions recover the impact inflation. Our business team, John and the team are doing a good job with that. In total year, we said we're going to lower the range from the 900 million down to about 800 million of operating profit for plastics. 

 Next I've got one page here summarizing both consumer and commercial finance. Many of you attended or listened to our analyst meeting last Wednesday where we covered these businesses in detail. If you missed it, we have the charts and the replay on the website. I just want to repeat some of the highlights. And the results for sub businesses like commercial equipment finance, and real estate, et cetera, are on the supplemental charts that we put on the web. So this is just a summary for the two GE businesses. 

 On the left, last Wednesday, Dave Nissen showed you all the consumer finance business is doing, they had a great quarter. Assets were up strongly. We had good core growth, about 7%. We had some acquisition growth, about 7%. And then we did get some benefits from exchange, a little over 10 points. So asset growth at 25 points, normalized it's closer to 14. Net revenues, up 16%. And net income up 10%. Driven by core growth, around $120 million of core growth driven by Europe plus Asia plus the U.S. 

 We had a little bit of acquisition benefits in here, the Australia guarantee acquisition was about 10 million. Partially offset by some losses in Japan for bankruptcies, so about 20 million. nd then the main offset to that core growth was lower securitization principally related to the preparation of our selling the Home Depot portfolio in the third quarter to a new servicer. So the total securitization in GE Capital was down 116 million net income in the quarter year-over-year, principally driven by this consumer finance action. 

 Asset quality stable, reserve coverage of 4.4% is up 19 basis points from year-end and 3 basis points from last year. I'll give you a little more in delinquencies and coverage for the whole of GE Capital next. We did close the First National Bank acquisition which we feel great about in the U.K and we're working on closing the Conseco Sales Finance acquisition. 

 So when you look at the second quarter dynamics here, securitization income is gonna be down another 70 million in the quarter but the earnings should be up 5% to 10%, total year on track total year for 15 to 20. 

 On the right side is commercial finance, Mike Neal and the leadership team last week showed you the results. Asset are up 14 in the quarter, net revenue up 9 and net income up 15%. Clearly the earnings - core earnings were driven by great performance in real estate up over 50%. Corporate financial services was up almost 20%. Gcast was up over 35%. Vendor was up almost 10%. So we had core growth of about $90 million. We did get some benefit from acquisitions, the Deutsche Financial Services acquisition is performing very well, the ABB acquisition that we did, the Structured Finance and the Security Capital acquisition also about $50 million. Partially offset by a loss where we wrote down our investment, final investment in NTL, I think it's down to a million dollars in total. A very good story in terms of core growth and acquisitions. 

 Healthcare's had a great performance, as a vertical, we love that space. And our nonearning assets, $2.1 billion, was down slightly and write-offs of .56% of A&E were down from the .75% of A&E run rate in the fourth quarter, so second quarter dynamics look good. 0 to 15% asset and earnings growth, good asset quality and the acquisition performance here has been very strong. 

 Just a chart on delinquency. We continue to show you the left side, our 30 plus days past due receivables in our commercial and our consumer business, $85 billion receivables on the commercial side at 1.92% delinquency, $70 billion of receivables on the consumer side at 5.84% delinquency, relatively stable. And on the right side for all of financial services, our non-reduced underring assets basically flat with year end, our write-offs are down from the fourth quarter. Our allowance for losses at 2.71% well within our normal ranges, and we continue to emphasize strong risk management with a focus on diversity, minimizing the bet in any one position and great risk management and collections. So asset quality is very strong. 

 Now, next page is on airlines. I know you saw the announcement from Boeing this morning, it's just another indicator of how tough the market is, but Henry Haupstran, last week in the meeting Wednesday did a terrific job overviewing how we run this business and how we think about running the business that differentiates us. I want to resummarize his key points, I'm not gonna go through his whole pitch, as I said, it's on the web. 

 First of all, we know the volatility's continuing and how tough the market is. But what have we been through. U.S. Airways is bankrupt, we agreed on a deal, they've come out of bankruptcy, and everything is performing as we expected. United is in bankruptcy, we do have a deal with them. Air Canada filed for protection in Canada and we have an outline of a deal with them. There's a dip financing that we are providing. It's being reviewed. The fleet that Gcast has is strong. 

 Jeff mentioned it's six aircraft on the ground at the end of the quarter is a terrific tribute to our global distribution and risk management in structuring. We've 90% forward placed our new aircraft deliveries from the Boeing and Airbus through 2004, and since 9/11, we've placed over 300 new and redeployed aircraft. That's a tribute to the team's distribution capability and customer relationships around the world. Our strengths are, we've got great assets; the fleet is averaging six years old; great domain and technical expertise; tremendous restructuring and remarketing capability; and a terrific broad, deep global customer base. So Henry had a good quarter, earnings are at $135 million, up a little below 40%, as I said. 

 Good core growth. We actually sold 14 aircraft in the quarter and had a gain and we had some write-downs of about $40 million on 18 out of production aircraft in the quarter. So playing for a flat year of $450 million and off to a pretty good start in a pretty tough environment. 

 A page on insurance. Insurance you can see from the numbers we sent out is flat in the quarter, down 1% actually. ERC had a very good quarter. Q1 earnings of $120 million, up 39%. 

 I misspoke last week at the conference, said 140 Jim Park corrected me at 120, but they delivered the 120, which was a good performance. The pricing is as we expected, about $60 million of price offset by reduced capital gains and a little lower volume as we continue to exit some product lines. 

 Our current outlook is for the 400 million total year net income. And again, you've got to remember, we've got very favorable second quarter and second half comparisons. The balance of insurance is down about $38 million. Principally the decline occurred in GEFA where the growth in life business and in our annuity lines was more than offset by lower gains and reduced annuity spreads. 

 The mortgage business has been impacted by refinancing, but strong global growth is allowing us to have basically flat earnings in that business and we had good productivity in the segment. Our outlook for 2003 is on track and in the quarter we expect to get about $500 million of income, which is up strongly, driven again by the favorable comparisons verses ERC last year. 

 I want to shift from the businesses and spend a little time on services. This representing a significant asset for us obviously. It's critical for our future earnings stream and we have a great backlog. At the end of the quarter, we had $74 billion of customized service agreements signed up with our customers. That's up 8%. And that backlog is the foundation for the revenue growth. 

 On the right side, you can see in the quarter we have about $5.1 billion of revenue, up 20% for the total year we expect it to be about $23 billion, which is about a third of our industrial revenue. 10 to 15% top line growth in services, high margins, above our average operating margin, 27% margins here, with over $6 billion of operating profit. So about 50% of our total industrial operating profit for the year is fueled mostly from this backlog that we've got with our customers. 

 So, 2003's off to a great start, you can see in Q1, some of the highlights, good new CSA growth in power. We continue to expand that installed base for the turbine deliveries. Engines had a good quarter, services up 23%. In medical, the healthcare IT business doing great. And in transportation, good parts sales. Our service position is tremendous. The reason we got it is because we win with technology and we win that installed base and we deliver productivity to customers. So, good - terrific performance. 

 Next is a look at the growth platforms. Another highlight for us in 2003 is the performance of the new platforms that we've invested in. You can see on the left side, the revenues and margins. We are expecting for the total year about 7 1/2 billion dollars of revenues in these platforms. A billion one in margin, 15% operating margin, very strong given that we're building these businesses. Security had a great quarter. Q1 sales up 12% organically. Healthcare IT had a great quarter, continues to do a terrific job, integrating and expanding its footprint with the hospital customer base. Water had a great quarter, 250 million in sales, we have a GE water business now which we're really delivering a total solution to customers. Oil and gas, as I said, had a terrific quarter and is on track for a good year. Hispanic media is a terrific space for us, were we love the demographics and we're confident about the future performance, what we can get with Telemundo [INAUDIBLE]. So the acquired platforms are performing very well and we continue to add capability to drive the organic growth and deliver the higher margins. 

 Next is just an outlook for the year. There's a the low going on in the world right now. We're -- it's affecting our business performance and everybody's business performance. I want to use this earnings outlook page to kind of put what we see in perspective for our outlook and the range. 

 In terms of the dynamics on the page, we've already seen some things that lead us to the lower end of the range. Obviously oil prices have been high, we've been hit with lower volume in plastics, air travel is down and obviously the economy and the war have impacted us. 

 On the other hand, when you look at the dynamics, we've also demonstrated some pretty positive performance to lead to the higher end of the range. The service growth is off to a great start. You've heard about the strong productivity and getting costs out. NBC pricing, the scatter prices are high and our acquisitions are all performing well and finally, ERC is off to a very positive start. 

 So we've laid out this framework,we've talked about what drives to the low and what drives to the high end, for the second half we have to deal with dynamics. But you've got to remember, we've got 75% of the power profit decline in the first half, we've got, obviously, tremendously favorable comparisons in insurance in the fourth quarter, and we've got good profit momentum from the acquired platforms and the growth platforms. So we're well-positioned for the 2003 target range of $1.55 to $1.70. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: So I'm just going to wrap up. 

 Thanks, Keith, you know, again, just to mention a couple of points. You know, we planned for tough this year and we weren't disappointed. We anticipated reality, we had a very proactive approach in terms of how we're managing the business. We're going through the power bubble better than planned and with broad-base strength. 

 We have got eight of 13 businesses with double digit earnings in the first quarter and we'll have the same in the second quarter. The company's very strong with a strong balance sheet, consistent cash flow, I think we've got great governance practices in place with an [INAUDIBLE] score above 98. Excellent risk management in terms of people and processes. Our teams in place, we do an annual CEO employee survey, about 100,000 of our 300,000 people turn it in. You know, our scores this year were above where they were over the last three years. So we've got less than 3% attrition of our key leaders and we just feel like we've got a great team in place and we're executing on a very clear strategy to really have a technology, services and financial company. One that wins around the world, one that's focussed on the customer and we continue to make progress on portfolio transformation and really redeploying assets to capital assets and growth platforms. So we think our strengths show in an environment like this, we're well-positioned to deliver on the year and with that, Rich I'll turn it back over to you. 

 RICHARD WACKER: Great. Thanks, Jeff and Keith. Nicole, we can now open up the questions on the conference call, please. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to ask a question, please press star 1 on your telephone. If your question has been answered or you wish to withdraw your question, please press star 2. 

 Out of courtesy to all participants, please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. 

 Our first question comes from Jeff Sprague of Smith Barney. Your question please. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Hi. Good morning everyone, it's Jeff Sprague. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Jeff. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Hi, Jeff. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: I was wondering on power, given the notion that the pain is loaded in the first half, you know, if you look at the forecast is back up from the 125 for the year, you're doing 55 units in the first half and 70 in the second half. Which is a little counterintuitive if we're going to kind of the 25 to 50 units in '04. Can you just shed some light on the, kind of, the consumer behavior around that and how we should expect things to look in the early stages of '04 if we're on that type of path? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yeah, we really do have that profile, Jeff. You know, the orders are a little higher, obviously than the 125 even totally. But as we have said before, some of these units are probably not going to go into commercial operation, that might be the dynamic that you're thinking of in the second half. That all these units that we're gonna deliver are gonna be going into storage for customers use, obviously, when they've paid for them. So that would probably be the dynamic, I think you're referring to. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: And so as we look at '04, we should drop down, you know, 10 units a quarter or so across '04, you think? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I think so, we're talking about 25 to 50 in '04, and obviously we'll get to our strategic planning this summer and be able to give you a little morer clarity about '04 after that. 

 KEITH SHERIN: I think we've always done, Jeff, the planning of 25 to 50 assuming a set amount of turbines that are going to be in customer storage, you know, have been factored into those numbers. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: And just kind of a separate follow-up, if I could, could you just shed a little bit more light, Keith on the tax rate, I think it's actually coming in higher than you expected, which I think I and the market actually likes, but has something changed there and should we expect it to be at -- 

 KEITH SHERIN: Let me take a shot at that. As I said, the 31.7 for the industrial rate, it does reflect that current estimate for the year. But ,you know, as you know, Jeff, we do do tax planning. We have other transactions. We haven't selected or executed on any of those yet. And we wouldn't be surprised to see the GE rate end up in the 27 to 29% range I previously said for the total year as the whole year unfolds. But based on what we have so far right now, we ended up with the 31.7 in the quarter. I'd say the same for the capital rate as well. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tyrone Kahana of Wellington Management. Your question please. 

 TYRONE KAHANA, ANALYST, WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT: Yeah. Good morning. A question on the free cash flow. 

 It looks like a billion six and that's after progress. I'm wondering your dividend is a billion nine. As we progress through the year, how long is that going to continue, you know, because that effectively gives you a net-negative free cash flow number. Keith, you know, if we look into 2004, how is that number, how are those numbers going to change? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, the estimate for us for 2003 I don't have a 2004 number for you, but the estimate for 2003 is that we're going to be about $14 billion of CFOA ex-progress. That does include the impact of the reduced dividend to GE Capital, which will be down about $1.2 billion, we'll have $7.5 billion of dividends, as you know. We'll have progress collections decline about $3.5 billion, and with the acquisition profile that we have today, we think we'll have debt go up about 2 to $2 1/2 billion. So we're consistent with how we've laid out the year. Obviously it's much stronger than 2002 was. And we feel very good about getting off to a good start with the industrial businesses delivering the working capital improvements that we're counting on. 

 So our goal and objective for the whole team is to make sure our cash flow from operating activities at the industrial companies grow in excess of our net income growth. And everybody's delivering on that very strongly so far this year and the whole team is engaged in working on it obviously. 

 TYRONE KAHANA: And if I could just ask one follow-on question, and this is more of a philosophical question for Jeff. 

 In looking at your acquisitions and your divestiture program, you know, we appreciate what you're trying to do with the portfolio. You're obviously trying to focus more on growth and, you know, remove some of the underperforming businesses. But in looking at the multiples that you've been paying for some of the businesses that you're acquiring, you know, Instrumentarium, Arvonix, Telemundo, you know, the best [INAUDIBLE] business, it just appears to me that, you know, you're paying a rich price for these companies that are kind of in vogue and, you know, have a fair amount of sex appeal. 

 And in terms of sales, you know, you're selling these businesses like the consumer appliances, lighting, ERC, Figic and I guess looking at these businesses, they seem to be completely out of favor. And I'm wondering, you know, is this a departure from the old GE that we know which was kind of like the buyer of last resort? And I just want to get your thoughts on that. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: That's a pretty heavy question, Terhune. Here's the way I've consistently described what our strategy is. 

 Our strategy is one of using acquisition dollars to acquire businesses that we think position the company for higher long-term growth rates. If you look at our, just take one of those businesses, Health Transformation Technology, that business is on a run rate basis, is in excess of $2 billion, it was zero in 1998. It probably goes through 20 to 25 acquisitions for maybe the last four or five years. 

 But what's important for us is, Terhune, is we buy these things and grow them faster. We put them on a different growth rate organically and we think that is the position that we want to take. 

 On divestitures, again, we work through those one by one, but ultimately what we're trying to do is think about the company to have higher returns, and divest businesses that are more capital traps than anything else that can't -- that we don't think can offer as high returns. So that's the strategy that I've pretty much articulated over time and we're still opportunistic about the way we go about things. 

 TYRONE KAHANA: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Dan Koshaba of Deutsche Banc. Your question please. 

 DAN KOSHABA, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Hi. Good morning, guys. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Dan. 

 DAN KOSHABA: Could you talk a little bit about the benefits of digitization and six sigma in the quarter and what you're expecting for the year now that it's impacting earnings? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yeah, Dan, our productivity both total cost productivity and variable cost productivity is -- continues to be at a very good [inaudible] 

 KEITH SHERIN: We had about 5% productivity in the quarter when you take out the impact of power systems, Dan, so that would be the place I would see it as showing up from a financial perspective. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: So that's really how we've directed digitization and where the focus has been and in this kind of environment, I think that's very healthy. 

 What we've done with six sigma is really put it more outwardly focused. I mean, we are doing about 6,000, you know, kind of, six sigma at the customer, for the customer projects in healthcare this year. We've got black belts working with airlines, each and every day, Air Canada, American, Delta, all over the industry. We've got six sigma resources in our customer base. And I think the flow you see of new products coming from us, whether it's in appliances, whether it's in medical, whether it's in power, are all being done with a six sigma focus and six sigma, kind of, you know, customer linkage. So I think you're seeing it in new products, you're seeing it in productivity, and I think it's showing up in our cash flow as well. 

 DAN KOSHABA: Related question, I'm not sure if you have an answer right now, but do you know what what percent roughly of your suppliers are working with you guys under the digitization process, reverse auctions, et cetera? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, we'll do, you know, I'll make sure Rich follows up the number, we'll do somewhere between 15 and $20 billion of auctions this year, it will be up slightly verses last year. You know, this is a great time to be a buyer. So more suppliers are working with us than ever before. 

 DAN KOSHABA: But the real benefits come when volume returns right? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You get a lot with pricing as well. 

 DAN KOSHABA: Right. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: And we're getting about 1 1/2% deflation on our raw material buys outside of plastics. So that's where you'll show the financial benefits of that as well. 

 DAN KOSHABA: Thanks, guys. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks, Dan. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Nicole Parent from Banc of America Securities. Your question please. 

 NICOLE PARENT, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Good morning, Nicole. 

 NICOLE PARENT: Jeff, I was just wondering, I guess, in light of capital creeping up as a percentage of net income in the first quarter, could you remind us of your thoughts and what you feel is an optimal longer term mix between the capital industrial businesses? And I guess along that vein and to follow up on Terhune's question, could you update us on the pace of the divestitures and acquisitions relative to your exceptions in December as you do transition the company towards the technology and services, you know, more of a shift there? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Nicole, I think we've always viewed that in this year, financial services would be 48%, in the high 40s. So I think that this is more or less consistent with that. 

 My long-term goal for the company is to keep financial services somewhere in the 40 to 45% range. And, you know, that includes growing the high-return businesses and commercial and consumer finance, and pieces of equipment management, and maybe pieces of insurance. And divesting some of the businesses that have lower returns. 

 I think on the divestiture side, I've been pretty clear externally from the standpoint of - continue to redeploy the capital into businesses with higher returns and that can reposition the long-term growth rate of the company and deploying resources away from some of the lower returning businesses and I would say that divestitures are highly likely to take place in this year. You know, you never comment on those, but again, we're going to do them in a way that maximizes returns. But they're highly likely in the balance of this year. 

 NICOLE PARENT: Great. And I guess as a follow-up, somewhat unrelated, with respect to the upcoming labor negotiations, have you factored any, you know, weird impacts that might impact the second quarter already into your guidance? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Nicole, we are somewhat old hands at all of this. We're building contingency -- you know, very active contingency plans, in the unionized locations in our companies so that we can insulate investors and customers from any impact we may have. We've had nine straight agreements that have been resolved successfully with the union. We're going in this labor negotiations this year with a very reasonable stance. And are hopeful that we can do it. I'm very hopeful that this will be 10 in a row and we'll just kind of be business as usual but we have strong contingency plans in place, you know, should there be disagreements of some kind. 

 NICOLE PARENT: Great. Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Just to add on to the point about the percent of capital in the first quarter, it's a little over 50% in the second quarter, low 40s. So we do have some volatility in terms of the percent of capital during the year but will average out into the high 40s as opposed to staying at the level in the first quarter. 

 NICOLE PARENT: Super, thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question from John Lynch of Merrill Lynch. Your question please. 

 JOHN LYNCH, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you, good morning. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, John. 

 JOHN LYNCH: Just a couple questions on medical. With sales up 15%, operating profits up 15%, I'm wondering if you could comment on your view of the leverage potential in that business and perspectively the capacity for the mid teen margins to move up? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, John, I think that historically medical has been able to grow up profit in excess of revenue. We're still investing very heavily in new product development in the business. And we'll continue to do that. You know, probably in the near term. But I'd say over the mid to long-term of that business, we ought to get leveraged with where our profit grows in excess of revenue. 

 JOHN LYNCH: Just as a two part follow-up, where would you expect the services growth to normalize? I mean, it was -- it's running in sort of roughly at about the segment average. And secondly, just the EUs review of Instrumentarium, was that surprising and Jeff, does it change your thoughts towards, sort of, the attractiveness or capacity to get deals done in Europe? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: On the first one, John, you know, the service business was actually up roughly the same as equipment orders, maybe up a point. You know, I expect the service orders for this year probably to be run at a slightly higher rate than equipment orders, maybe by a couple points. Again, we've got a great, you know when I talk about technology and medical, I talk about both product and services. We've got a great software offerings and continue to grow that. I would expect services to grow faster. In terms of Instrumentarium, this is what we always expected. That this would be a deal that would take late into the second quarter or third quarter. 

 We've gotten a lot of deals approved in Europe post-Honeywell, and we'll get a lot of deals approved in the future. There's been nothing so far vis a vie, Instrumentarium that's been a surprise and again, we continue to work constructively with regulators both in Europe and the U.S. to get that deal approved. 

 JOHN LYNCH: Great, thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks, John. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Michael Regan of CSFB. Your question please. 

 MICHAEL REGAN, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks, good morning. The commercial spares business at aircraft engines just had terrific quarter, I think the number was up 23%. I'm wondering if you can give some additional detail or perhaps some opinion on whether or not that was inventory restocking or inventory building in advance of the war? What were the pieces that were moving there? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yeah, first I think the thing you got to remember, is the first quarter last year, so we had a little better comparison, but we like the run rate actually Michael, but we had a little better comparison obviously and after 9/11, in the fourth quarter, we were down at 8 1/2 million dollars a day. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Right. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: And then in the first quarter last year, 9.3. So we continue to see a run-up, you know, the normal run rate with the world in a state it was at in the third quarter, was over 10, and in the fourth quarter, almost $12 million a day. So we're getting back to what we thought would be more normal levels, I think, as opposed to any type of trying to restock for a war, or if anything, they probably pushed out maintenance and doing a little bit of a catchup thing. 

 The other thing I would say, our engines are flying. That's the good news when you look at the strength of the fleet and the newness of our engines and our position in those fleets. So I feel like it was getting back to more normal levels, rather than any kind of intervention item. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Do you have the numbers, Keith, by chance on what the commercial service sales looked sequentially from the fourth quarter? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Fourth quarter was 11.7 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Okay. 

 KEITH SHERIN: average orders a day, the first quarter was 10.9. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Okay. So down a little bit sequentially. 

 KEITH SHERIN: And the second quarter, we said probably would be in the 9.5 to 9.7 is what we're looking at today. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Gotcha. Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jeff Shriner at MS Capital Management. Your question please. 

 JEFF SHRINER, ANALYST, MS CAPITAL MANAGEMENT: Good morning, gentlemen. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Jeff. 

 JEFF SHRINER: If you have this, great. If not, maybe just announce it later if you could or I'll get back with you. What was the ROA within GE Capital? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I'll have to ask somebody to dig up the number for you, Jeff. 

 JEFF SHRINER: That's fine, gentlemen. Just a follow-up on that, I was just wondering, the shift in debt structure, should we be taking that as GE feeling that maybe rates have bottomed or rates will be shifting higher over the next few years? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, our principle at GE Capital is to match-fund our business. So we take an asset and we'll put a lease with a customer, a loan with a customer and we'll, if it's a floating rate asset, we'll go floating rate debt. If it's a fixed rate asset, we'll do fixed rate debt. We don't have a view on interest rates in this structure. 

 What we're doing, and we started last year, was we're improving our liquidity profile. Less reliance on commercial paper markets, and that just takes overall liquidity risk out of the company. We aren't making any statements about interest rates. And it really isn't part of the business model, match funding is the key principle we follow. And that's why we're continuing to drive a focus on issuing long-term debt and maintaining our commercial paper in the 25 to 35% range. 

 JEFF SHRINER: Thank you, just one slight follow-up. The flow through we saw in NBC with revenue down 26%, op profit up 10, can we see that flow through or what was the main driving force within that? Again, take out the Olympics on the revenue down 26, you got to take out the Olympics. When you adjust for that alone, the NBC revenues were up 15. [Multiple speakers were INAUDIBLE] 

 KEITH SHERIN: About $15 million we had in profit last year. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: So the Olympics were, you know, $700 million plus, and the op profit was about $15 million, so much lower margin. 

 JEFF SHRINER: Okay. Thank you, gentlemen. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. Your question please. 

 BOB CORNELL, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yeah. Good morning everybody. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Bob. 

 JOANNA MORRIS, DIRECTOR, CORPORATE INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Hi, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: You know, interesting philosophical question to me. You talked about the probability there will be divestitures to reposition the portfolio, but typically GE historically has offset restructuring gains with - I mean divestiture gains with restructuring actions. But in the new accounting rules are such, you ought to pay as you go on restructuring actions. 

 As we go through this year, if you do sell something where you've got a gain, you know, how are you going to treat that in this new world of restructuring? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Bob, can you clarify that for me? 

 BOB CORNELL: Well, you know, according to the new FAS rules, you can't take one-time gains, one-time charges anyplace, you got to run all of these restructuring actions through the P&L as incurred. 

 KEITH SHERIN: We haven't been. 

 BOB CORNELL: The FAS 146. 

 KEITH SHERIN: We haven't been doing that actually, we've been following all the restructuring changes, and obviously you have to have a project that completes in a defined time frame less than a year is a minimum guideline for us. And we have taken, obviously, restructuring as ongoing costs here. We don't do big one-time charges or whatever, if that's what you're referring to, and we haven't done. Well, I mean, going back over many years, I mean, GE's philosophy was if you had a big gain, you'd take equal and offsetting restructuring charge. The new rules apparently don't allow that, it looks like as you guys reposition the portfolio, you probably are going to get book gains on things. So you don't seem to have the opportunity, you know, to take the usual GE restructuring charge to balance those gains, if I'm right on that. Well, we'll have to deal with that when we get one. Obviously we've already adjusted to add the restructuring guidelines and accounting rules have changed, we've adjusted to that environment already. So, it's not something that I'm really worried about. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I wouldn't add anything to that, I think Keith said it. 

 BOB CORNELL: Just a follow-up question on the very early question on power. The fact that you got 75% of the decline behind you is interesting. I mean, it looks like you shipped fewer gas turbines in this quarter than you had forecast to ship even in the first quarter, I think it was 27, now it was 22. Does that mean you slipped in the second half? What sort of confidence level do you have that the second half will unfold the way it's currently scheduled? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Pretty good. I think our credibility is pretty high here in terms of how we look at the backlog. We deal with our customers, we try and communicate with everybody about what we think we're going to deliver. Obviously, we've been through the massive rounds of the cancellations and the terminations, Bob, and are in negotiations with any customer still on the fence on those. Because as you see, we do forecast, there will be more terminations in the year. 

 But that's a place where we've got pretty good visibility, very strong customer communications and relations and our forecast accuracy has been pretty good. We're shipping what we thought in the second quarter. Maybe I had too high a number previously somewhere but that was kind of the number we were expecting and that's what they shipped. 

 KEITH SHERIN: I think we're on track to have the revenue and power the fourth quarter, will be about even with last year. So it's the nature of the profile that we're working through. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley. Your question please. 

 SCOTT DAVIS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning everyone, it looks like a pretty solid quarter. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Scott. 

 RICHARD WACKER: Good morning, Scott. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: I just wanted to get a little bit, I know this is difficult because of the Olympics and also because of power, if there's any way we can break out core volume growth verses what was acquired and then also talk a little bit about pricing in terms of the impact there? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: The second piece, core volume growth, and the second piece was what? 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Just kind of a standard volume price currency acquisition breakout. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Sure, if you look on the website, we put a supplemental schedule out. We've taken power and put it as one line item. So you can see the core volume is -- it's -- are you on earnings or revenue, Scott? 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Revenues. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Still, this is -- going to drive the same way. Basically, Scott, if you take out the Olympics and power, volume's about flat. If you look at acquisitions, they added -- 

 JOANNA MORRIS: On the industrial side, about a... 

 KEITH SHERIN: Back to the revenue side, about a billion 1/2. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Several points of revenue, billion 1/2. 

 KEITH SHERIN: So an the revenue side the acquisitions are about a billion 1/2. I think that actually overstates it. Because the first quarter you include an acquisition in your number, it is kind of the run rate of that business. But by the time you're including that fourth quarter, we've been all over that business, we've been growing it organically, we've been expanding its distribution, and so I think that's probably a high look at the impact of acquisitions. But that's the total for the growth platforms. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: And then the number for the -- for price impact? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, pricing again in the quarter excluding the impact of power, which was actually a little positive, power and NBC were positive, prices across the industrial company were down 1.2% to about $75 million of net income. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Was there a positive impact from currency? 

 KEITH SHERIN: You know, on the top line, there was a little positive impact from currency. On the industrial side of the company, in the schedule it basically is zero. In terms of net earnings. On capital, it was a little over $25 million in terms of net earnings positive from currency obviously the benefits mostly in the weak dollar verses the euro. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Just as a quick follow-up on the service side certainly a nice positive surprise in the quarter, but can you just refresh my memory on the revenue recognition that you used when you sign like a long-term service agreement? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Basically we take the total revenues that we get over the contract life, we take the total costs that we'll incur over the contract life, and as we incur costs, we record revenue, including that average margin. It's under the long-term service agreement contract accounting model. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Don MacDougall of JP Morgan. Your question, please? 

 DON MACDOUGALL, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Good morning everyone. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Don. 

 DON MACDOUGALL: I wanted to follow-up on the finance percentage of earnings question in a slightly different way. I guess, Jeff, this is probably best answered by you. 

 How much of a constraint do you think about that as, and just to kind of give you an idea of where I'm going, if there are opportunistic situations where you can expand core businesses within GE Capital, do you view that percentage of earnings threshold, or the level where we're at right now is something you don't want to cross before you sell something else? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Don, sure I think about the complexion of the company and how I want it to look over time, and so I have a strategic headset for how it looks. That doesn't mean that I won't look at a particularly strategic deal or one that I think fits the financial service business in a unique way. But I never want to stray too far from where I want the company to look in the overall composition. 

 DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: So I think that's probably a strong maybe, you know. I think -- I do have a way I want the company to look but I also, you know, we've got people that are trained to bring good opportunities and let us have a good robust discussion about them and make a smart decision for investors over the long-term. 

 DON MACDOUGALL: Okay. Just an unrelated follow-up on the accounting change, the SFAS 143, are we going to see any more of those and just maybe a little color on the circumstances around the one in this current quarter. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Are we going to see any more of those? FAS 143 is accounting for asset retirement obligations. We described it in the annual report, it's on page 49, basically it's a obligation that the day start-up facility, if you have a regulatory requirement to also clean it up, then you have to provide for that cleanup over its life. This is a cumulative catchup for us to be able to clean up some of our nuclear facilities. As if you had always been providing for it over the life of the facility, you would build that provision over time, that cumulative catchup is about $200 million. We have adopted it and that is the only implication of that FASB that I anticipate, Don. 

 DON MACDOUGALL: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Okay, Nicole, we'll do one more question. Our last question comes from Robert Friedman of Standard and Poors Advisement Group. Your question, please? 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN, ANALYST, STANDARD & POORS ADVISEMENT GROUP: Yes, guys. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Hi, there. Could we go over the free cash flow again? Cash flow from operations was 1.6 Q1 of that year and 1.4 of last year. What was Cap Ex on the industrial side? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Cap Ex on the industrial side was about $400 million, it was down $30 million from last year. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Okay. Down 30 million. Okay. 

 And also do you have the components of the pension income calculations? Because some people, you know, like S&P, we strip out the expected returns on plant assets and various extraneous costs. Do you happen to have that? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I don't have it broken out into the pieces of the pension income, but I can certainly get it to you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Rob, we laid it out pretty clearly in the annual, we can do a follow-up phone call if you want to go through that. The different elements of the charge, I know how the analysis works, sure. 

 RICHARD WACKER: Okay, thank you Nicole. We appreciate everybody's time, we ran a little bit longer, we wanted to make sure we had a chance to get through all the questions. 

 As always, the slides again are on the website at GE.com/investor. The replay will be available this afternoon. And JoAnna and I are available for any follow-up questions and you know how to reach us, our contact information as well is on the website. Thanks very much and we'll speak to you soon. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks. Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes your conference call for today, you may all disconnect and thank you for your participation. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   AN
Document fndw000020030412dz4b00001
  


 HD
 Q4  2002  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
14,255 words
   PD
17 January 2003
   ET
01:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen, and welcome to the General Electric fourth quarter 2002 conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Nicole. I will be your conference coordinator today. If at any time during the call you require assistance, please press star followed by 0, and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Mr. Richard Wacker, Vice President of Investor Relations. Please proceed. 

   TD
 RICHARD WACKER, VICE PRESIDENT CORPORATE INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Good morning and happy new year. Welcome, Joanna, Morris and I want to welcome you to our conference call for 2002, fourth quarter and full year. You have the press release from this morning. The slides, we will stream those out as we go on the site but if you want to download the slides, the black-and-white version is available on the site, along with some supplemental data. That's at www.ge.com/investor. If you don't see it and you're on that page, just hit refresh and those should be there. You can download and follow along. 

 As always elements of this presentation are forward looking and are best on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes so we ask that you please interpret them in that light. Today we'll cover fourth quarter 2002 full year, our outlook for 2003 in the first quarter especially and then we'll do some Q&A. To do that we have Jeff Immelt, Chairman and CEO of GE and Keith Sherin, our Chief Financial Officer. Let's get started, turn it over to Jeff. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT, CHAIRMAN, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Rich. Good morning, everybody. I've shown you our strategy before. We want GE to stand for sustainable and reliable growth over time and to do that we're executing on four strategic imperatives. Our renewing the GE portfolio we continue to allocate investment into fast grow platforms, capital efficient platforms. We're really working on building great organic growth capability by investing in technology, services, customer interests and globalization. We've got a very strong focus on cash and a strong balance sheet and remain a solid triple A. And you've seen the actions we took in November on transparency and governance and we really believe it positions GE as a leader. We think this is the right strategy for GE today and our great team is executing on that strategy. 

 Turning to 2002, we finished the year consistent with our December update. Revenue was $132 million, up 5%. Earnings at $15.1 billion were up 7%. This would have been $1.65 a share before $1.4 billion reserve strengthening of the ERC. And CFOEX progress was a little better than expected at $15.2 billion, up 10%. We had some great performances, power, aircraft, NBC, appliances, consumer and commercial finance, transportation all had double digit growth. 

 We continue to invest in growth. We increased our spending on new products and are very well positioned as we enter 2003. Our sales in China grew by 40% and by almost 10% in Europe. We launched several new programs for our customers and our service backlog is now at $75 billion of long-term service agreements and continues to grow. We added several key growth platforms last year. We now have $1 billion platform in security growing 15%. Our water technology business is $1.4 billion and positioned for growth. Oil and gas and Hispanic media experienced 20% organic growth in 2002. And with the addition of Instrumentarium our healthcare information technology business, we'll have a $2.5 billion run rate going into next year. We strengthened our liquidity and financial flexibility and remain a solid triple A and we do have volatility. This includes some tough stories like the major disappointment at ERC where we struggled throughout the year, but also some good stories like our strong performance in a brutal commercial aviation market. All in all we end the year with a stronger company and focused on the future. 

 Turning to the fourth quarter just a few comments and then I'll turn over to Keith. Again pretty consistent with how we viewed the world in December. Our economic indicators are still signaling slow economic growth. Our short cycle orders were up 13%, including acquisitions. They are slightly stronger in Europe and Asia. Pricing pressure remains, and oil-driven inflation has actually worsened. But again this is basically the environment we saw in December and that we continue to see today. I think GE has performed in this environment. Particularly encouraging was our industrial revenue up 8%. 

 I think revenue actual was a pretty good story this quarter. We had six of nine industrial businesses with double digit revenue growth. Service orders were up 27%, including a very strong performance by engine spares, and NBC pricing was up 27%. We had six businesses make double digit profit growth and financial asset quality was solid. Our CFOA again was up 10% at $15.2 billion in line with earnings and the strong cash performance resulted in a dividend increase of 6%. Our pension surplus is now about $5 billion and we don't foresee any additional funding required. 

 And as you know, this quarter includes several nonrecurring items such as the ERC reserve strengthening and the gain in the Cablevision stock and Keith will walk you through that. All in all we did what we said, 45 cents before the ERC charge and 31 cents in total. 

 Now before we proceed, I did want to discuss the labor situation that most of you read about this week. About 5% of our workforce, represented by the IUE and UE had a 48 hour work stoppage. Let me first say that we're saddened by the death of with one of our employees in a tragic traffic accident in Louisville. And none of us like the fact that we had a strike. But nonetheless this stoppage had no impact on operations or our first quarter earnings. Healthcare is an important issue for many companies, including GE. GE has great benefits today and will always have great healthcare benefits for employees, but we will manage this expense, and we will do so with the help of our employees. I will focus in on a constructive discussion with the unions in June about healthcare and jobs and a number of issues just like we always have. And now I want to turn over to Keith to discuss operations. 

 KEITH SHERIN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to give you a summary of 2002 and then take you through some of the details of the fourth quarter. If you look here at the financial results for the fourth quarter, we ended with $35.4 billion of revenue, up 4%. As Jeff said, we had very strong industrial sales, up 8%. And in GE Capital with the declining interest rate environment, if you look at net revenue, revenue less interest expense, it was up very strong, 17%. Earnings were down 21%. Obviously impacted by the charge for the additional reserves at ERC that I'm going to cover more in detail later. Ex the ERC charge we would have been at 45 cents on the quarter, up 15%. If you take a look at the total year numbers, earnings up 7%, Ex-ERC would have been 17. 

 Return on total capital very strong at 24.5%. You can see it's down 2.5 points. The ERC charge has actually driven that 2.1 points of that decline. And cash flow from operating activities was great, as Jeff mentioned, ex-[INAUDIBLE] 15.2, up 10%. So pretty good delivery in a pretty tough environment for the total year here. 

 Now, I'm going to take you through the fourth quarter events. In addition to the ERC charge, we did have some other fourth quarter events. First, as has been widely reported, we exchanged our holdings in Rainbow and Cablevision for the Bravo network in a tax efficient transaction resulting in an after-tax gain of $514 million. In addition, our businesses had restructuring and other charges during the quarter of $245 million after tax and I'm going to describe some of those more on the right side of this chart in a second. 

 In the quarter, just like we've had during the year, power systems did have some terminations from customers, and the impact determinations net of the restructuring that was done in the power systems business was about $249 million after tax. And then the tax rates during the quarter and during the year were obviously impacted by the ERC charge and, you know, we had $2.5 billion of charge in the fourth quarter. The capital tax rate in the quarter is 113%. The consolidated tax rate's down 3%. We have to strip out the impact of the ERC charge to take a look at the taxes. If you do that and you look at the industrial rate, the fourth quarter industrial rate's about 19.1 points. That's down about 9 points and there's really three drivers. 

 First of all I mentioned that the Rainbow/Cablevision exchange for Bravo was very tax efficient. That impacted the rate by about 3.5 points in the quarter. In addition we got an IRS refund agreement on exports, which is part of the foreign sales corporation process, and that was about three points. And we continued to expand our international operations, which accounts for the rest of the delta. So you've got to strip out the impact of the ERC charge when you take a look at tax rates. 

 And then finally the ERC charge. We indicated in the fourth quarter that this would be about $2.5 billion. That's where the charge came in. $1.4 billion after tax. So if you go to the right side in the quarter, what were some of the restructuring focus? We worked on consolidating operations, taking costs out. We worked on reducing capacity. We did move some work to low-cost countries, and we had some other charges. 

 If you take a look at the dollars by business, power had about $56 million after tax of restructuring as they continue to take out costs and reduce capacity as we go into the lower gas turbine deliveries. We had -- engines had about $30 million after tax of capacity reductions in Brazil and Europe. 

 Plastics reduced capacity in its European operations, a little over $30 million. NBC had some reductions in earnings, driven by reserves for NASCAR. We took about $70 million on NASCAR in the fourth quarter as we wrapped up the NASCAR season. The ratings have been great, but we had less advertisers than we had in the business plan in total, and we had to reduce our outlook for that business. Now, if you take a look at these restructuring charges, we currently believe we're going to get one to two cents of benefit in '03 from the impact of improving our cost structure as we go forward. So the restructuring does help us position the businesses for '03 and beyond. 

 Next page is on cash flow. And we had a great year in cash flow. If you look at CFOAX progress up 10% at $15.2 billion. The right side of the chart is the cash walk. Okay. The right side of the chart is the cash walk. You can see we started with $9.8 billion. The cash flow from operating activities of 15.2. We gave back $9 billion to shareholders with the dividends and the stock buyback. We reinvested in our businesses with new acquisitions and plant and equipment investments of $10.5 billion. And we also strengthened GE Capital and ERC with the infusion that we did at the end of the year. Ending the year with a little over $1.billion of cash and the cash flow is actually above our earnings growth and we continue to have a very strong operating focus on cash flow and we're pleased with these results in the fourth quarter. 

 Now I'll take you through the results in the fourth quarter. I'm going to start with a long cycle. Here are the businesses that we outline in long cycle. You can see power systems had revenue up 4%. That was driven by a very strong performance in oil and gas. Revenues were up 17%. Services were up 14%. We had terminations in the quarter of about $535 million. 

 And you can see that was offset by the decline in gas turbine units out of Greenville. So we've already started to see the impact of the gas turbine bubble here in the fourth quarter. We delivered 32 gas turbine units out of Greenville, down 38 units from last year, and we started the restructuring. So we had about $75 million pretax restructuring in the fourth quarter in the power business, generating that operating profit result. 

 If you look at engines, we had commercial business down about 20% in the fourth quarter as everyone expected. The military business was up about 34% and services were up 22%. So a very strong quarter for services. The operating profit growth at $561 million was less than the sales growth, up 1%. And that's as a result of about $60 million higher reserves in that business as the industry continues to have trouble, and about $40 million higher new product investment as we continue to invest in the product line and build a stronger set of engine lines across the whole range of products that engines have. So pretty strong performance in a pretty tough environment. 

 You go to medical systems, we had 5% revenue. That's nine points of volume. Very strong volume, offset by price. We had $530 of [INAUDIBLE] in the quarter up 5%. We had some real strength. Sims IT was up 13%, services were up 10%. Ultrasound was up 19%. Europe was up 19% but at the end of the day, the impact of Japan and Latin America really hurt us in the fourth quarter as it did all year. Cost us about four points of revenue in the fourth quarter, which is a little over $100 million. And about 8 points of margin. Japan was down 23% as an example. So when you look overall at this business, pretty good quarter and some pretty good performances as we position for '03. I'll cover that in a minute. 

 Transportation was up principally driven by higher unit deliveries. If you look at the strength of the long cycle, it's really obviously driven by winning the installed base and then performing in the services arena. Services had just a great year. If you look at the revenue on the left side, the fourth quarter revenue was up 18% at $6.3 billion. The total year at $20.8 billion was up 11%. We're looking forward to a strong double-digit year in 2003 as the backlog and the installed bases continue to grow. You can see the growth numbers in the fourth quarter across the businesses. Power, medical, aircraft, all up strong, double digit. 

 Transportation was impacted by the port strike on the West Coast, but overall, 25% operating margin for the total year, up a point. And our CSA backlog has grown, as Jeff indicated, up to $75 billion and we anticipate that to be up to $85 billion next year. So when you look at 2003, we're pretty well positioned for another year of strong double digit growth in services and another year of operating margin growth by a point. 

 If you look at the short cycle in the fourth quarter, you can see NBC just had a great quarter. They had a great year. They are in a very strong position. They are realizing great advertising results. Obviously the number one network. 22% advantage in demos versus the nearest competitor. The pricing is strong. The scatter in the fourth quarter was up 18% over the up-front. We did complete the Bravo acquisition as we said and we're well positioned as we go into '03. 

 Specialty materials. The results are really driven by the success of our water technology business platform, GE Bets. The core business, you can see the total results are up almost three times for the fourth quarter and the core business, excluding Bets, also had double digit operating profit growth. So very good performance and strong December orders as you can see on the right side. 

 Industrial systems also driven by the success in new platforms. The sensor and security business were the primary driver for that operating profit growth. And in consumer products we just had another tough quarter. It is a tough U.S. market. The lighting is the main driver here. We did return to profitability in the fourth quarter in lighting, but we were down about $58 million over last year as we continued to have volume and price declines and we had the impact of the Home Depot runoff continue in the fourth quarter. Appliances were down slightly. And if you take a look at the business of plastics on here, this is a business that's in a tough part of the cycle. We had very strong revenue growth, up 14 points. The volume alone added about $30 million to operating profit. We're seeing strength in auto, we're seeing strength in building and construction. 

 We're seeing strength in media. On the other hand, though, the price, while it's stable in the fourth quarter, is still down versus last year, about $60 million. And the raw material inflation impacted us about $60 million in the fourth quarter. So we've been growing. If you take a look at the short cycle, we've got good growth in a tough cycle. Certainly the businesses are well positioned. And the acquisitions are performing very well. 

 And plastics is out of balance right now and I'll show you what I mean by that on the next page. I think if you look at the plastics business for us, the earnings are really a function of three things. First it's obviously the volume on the left side and the volume's been growing. We got about 8% volume last year. We're counting on about 8% this year. That's been very strong around the world. Selling price stabilizing. You can see the dramatic price declines that occurred in the industry in 2002 but you also can see the first half to second half we had some pretty good stabilization, albeit with tough comparisons to '01 and we're counting on price increases in '03. I'll touch on that in a second. 

 The real pressure right now is coming from raw material inflation. If you look at where oil is, over $30, and the supply chain on our raw materials is giving us real direct material inflation at a time when we ought to be seeing deflation in a more normal environment. The raw materials are pretty much out of sync with the economy based on uncertainty of the world, the impact of oil supply and demand from some geopolitical issues and we've announced a price increase of 10% on January 3rd and we're working on that. And we're going to be all over this based on how raw materials go. Just as an example in the bottom of the chart, we give you the example of benzene, which is one of the critical raw materials for our business. We closed the fourth quarter at about $1.50 a gallon. 

 If you look at the five-year average, it's about $1.05 and in more normal economic times like this, it should be below that. Just that spread alone on raw materials on an annual basis, benzene, plus the other raw materials, is over $100 million of operating profit pressure. So this business right now, we would call it difficult from a visibility perspective. I think everyone's seeing that in the industry. If nothing gets better right now, we would say that on the December guidance we gave that the plastics business could be somewhere between $900 and $1 billion. We would say plan for the low end of that range based on what we see today and we'll have to obviously have to keep you updated on where plastics goes. 

 Shift into the financial services businesses in the fourth quarter. If you look at commercial and consumer finance, they really had a terrific quarter. Commercial finance, the assets were up 14%. We had good core growth. We had lower losses. We did close the ADB and the Deutsche deals which added about $5 billion of assets. Some individual businesses in commercial finance, if you look, commercial finance, the business more than doubled. They had great core growth. It was a big quarter for DIP financing, debtor in possession financing. 

 Real estate more than doubled in the quarter. Again, great core growth, plus the benefits of the acquisition of Security Capital coming through. Commercial equipment finance, one of the core businesses in capital, up 24%. Again, great core growth. Plus our contributions from the Australia guarantee and [COMDISCO] acquisition. So very strong quarter in commercial finance. 

 Consumer finance, up 15%. Assets in consumer finance were up 22%. Both the global consumer finance business and the card business were up 15% in the quarter. We had very strong core growth driven by Europe and Australia and double digit productivity and good risk management. 

 You look at equipment management. Earnings were up very strong, $89 million. Four out of the five businesses were up. We continue to work through issues in railcar but the other businesses were up. The assets are flat. We are going to continue to work on costs and defleeting and market remains tough here. 

 And finally in insurance, obviously the $1.4 billion after-tax charge in ERC impacted the results in this segment. For the quarter, ERC lost $1.5 billion in total. If you look at the rest of the business, mortgages perform and they had a very strong quarter, up over 30%. And GE Financial Assurance was about flat, down slightly. Basically the spread compression and the impact of the equity markets on the fee [INAUDIBLE] based business cost us about $25 million each. And then the growth in fixed annuities, long term general life offset that with about $50 million leaving [INAUDIBLE] about flat. So pretty strong results in capital ex-insurance. 

 In addition to the business performance listed here, you know, we continue to down size GE equity. We did make the announcement that we're getting out of that business. The assets in equity are down to about $2.7 billion, down about $1 billion this year. That business lost about $60 million in the fourth quarter. And we continue to downsize and reduce our cost structure in ITS. 

 We sold the ITS business in Europe, which is big news for us. And that was down over $100 million year-over-year. So we're continuing to get out of the fix, close, or sell businesses and improve the position in capital in the noncore businesses as we go forward. 

 Now I want to look at asset quality. I tell you, we feel great about this. If you look at this chart, we've been showing delinquencies every month. On the left side is for the equipment financing business. $84 billion of receivable assets. This is our delinquencies on the top of the chart which are 30 plus days past due. You can see it's down in the fourth quarter from both the third quarter and from last year. And if you look at our commercial finance losses, as a percent of the average outstandings, you can see that they are lower losses in our business versus the market across the board. 

 Same story on the consumer finance on the right side. Great global broad spread of risk in the consumer business. $80 billion in receivables. Delinquencies are up slightly, seven basis points from the third quarter and up a little bit from last year. Pretty much flat overall when you look at it for the trends, though. And again, the losses in the consumer business as a percent of average outstanding again are lower than the market in the consumer segment. 

 So when you look at the asset quality in GE Capital, I think the summary is pretty well said in the takeaway. The delinquencies are stable. Our allowance for losses ended the year at $5.5 billion, 2.68% of financing receivables, which is up a little bit from the third quarter. Our non and reduced earning assets ended the year at 1.99% of financing receivables, down slightly from last year. And this -- you know, we attribute this to one, our focus on underwriting and our focus on risk management. If you look at 2002, we added 500 collectors and 400 risk managers. In total we got 11,900 collectors and risk managers around the world working on this to make sure that we maintain a terrific quality of portfolio here. 

 Next, I wanted to give an update obviously airline exposure is in the news and in the press every day. This is an update of our exposure to U.S. Air and United. We gave this chart on the November 21st presentation and I wanted to just kind of tell you where we are. I only update the chart to show that on the left side is our exposure with U.S. Air for both GCAS and aircraft engines. At the time of the November meeting we had about $2.2 billion of book exposure. If you look today it's about $200 million less. Basically with the agreement being approved yesterday, by the bankruptcy court between GE and U.S. Air, we reduced our financing guarantees by about $200 million. And the whole process seems to be on track for everything that we expected and have communicated to you and there's rally no new news on U.S. Air for us. 

 If you look at the right side, which is United, we had about $1.9 billion in the November meeting. We reduced our exposure in the last few weeks by about $200 million. Some of the senior debt that we had in the secured loans category was purchased by a third party, reducing our exposure by about $200 million. And we're actively supporting United in the negotiations and we think everything here in terms of what we've said about GCAS and aircraft engines with both U.S. Air and United is progressing as we expected. One other point I would say is that GCAS despite this turbulent market ended the year with 13 aircraft on the ground which is one up from Q3, which is terrific performance of remarketing of these assets in a pretty tough environment. 

 Next is an update on liquidity. Obviously this was a big priority for us this year to make sure we strengthen our financial flexibility. We ended the year with about $271 billion of long-term debt. You can see our commercial paper at $84 billion was 31% of the debt composition, which is within our target ranges. We increased our bank lines to $54 billion during the year. We extended our maturities on commercial paper. And on the right side you can see we issued in total $88 billion of long-term debt and when you look at '03, we think we're going to issue somewhere around $60 billion of long-term debt. Principally driven by end financial services, about $35 billion of rollover maturing debt that we will refinance and then the balance will be driven by growth in assets depending upon how our businesses perform. 

 We do plan on expanding the retail program, which we launched in the fourth quarter. It's off to a great start. And on the industrial side, we do plan to issue about $5 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter here. We plan to repay the CP that we raised to do the capital infusion to strengthen the GE Capital balance sheet and replenish the ERC balance sheet. We're going to do about $5 billion of long-term debt in the first quarter and then we're going to replenish the shelf, which we have outstanding right now which is about $5 billion. So we will refile a shelf after we issue the bonds and depending upon acquisitions, we don't anticipate doing any more bonds on the GE side during 2003. So we're finishing up the year with a strong balance sheet and a great liquidity position. Jeff? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: All in all, 2002 was a challenging year but we had a lot of great execution in key businesses, power, aircraft, NBC, appliances, consumer finance, commercial finance, transportation. We continue to add great growth platforms that, as you can see, are performing very well. And we think the fundamentals are very strong with solid triple A and the funding plan Keith just described. So we think the company's well positioned for 2003 and I'll turn to that right now and kind of revisit 2003 framework. 

 We still believe 2003 is positioned the way we outlined in December. You know, we know the impact of gas turbine shipment declines, lower pension earnings are in the plan, and again, the uncertainty is really created by the threat of war and what happens there. But in many ways we have better visibility into most of the company as we sit here today in January. We think that engines, medical, transportation, power services are very solid. We have great backlogs with new products and services. We've got acquisitions that we've announced in medical that we think the combination of that and just excellent backlog in technology and services positions us very well in the remainder of the long cycle businesses. 

 Our current short-cycle run rates for NBC, special materials and industrial will result in 20% growth in those three businesses and we'll start getting the benefit from the consumer consolidation in the first quarter, putting lighting and appliances together and getting some good cost down. Our financial service businesses are strong with solid asset growth in consumer and commercial finance and a turnaround underway at ERC. And we believe we just have very solid earnings platforms in financial services. Plastics as Keith said is less certain. We see volume growing. Our price is stabilized but oil-based raw materials are about 50% higher than we would expect at this point in the cycle. Now, I think this will be resolved during the year. The way it did in 1992. At that time after the Gulf war, the raw material prices collapsed and created good earnings momentum in that business but nonetheless it creates short-term pressure in plastics. 

 Overall we're well positioned for the '03 range of $1.55 to $1.70. And now Keith will take you through some of the key segments for '03. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Let me start, Jeff, with the, just some of the market indicators that come out of our businesses to kind of give an update on the economic feel. On the top left, when you look at plastics, which is a pretty broad indicator, we had strong volume, as I said in the fourth quarter, up 11%. We're anticipating around 5% in the first quarter. You can see the shift to Asia in the plastics business, the orders in Asia up a strong double digit. 

 On the consumer side, appliances, our U.S. orders were basically flat in the fourth quarter, up 1%. We anticipate that to be about the same marketplace in the first quarter. On the bottom left, industry dynamics are improving in engines. Basically everybody stopped the maintenance as they went through after 9/11, pushed out everything they had to do with their grounded planes. Now we're getting to a more stable run rate based on the new utilization and load factors that the airlines are running. We had a great quarter obviously and we're estimating a good fourth quarter -- first quarter in the average daily order rates to spare. That will be about $10.5 million a day as that indicator. 

 And then NBC as we said, just great pricing versus the up-front and we see that continuing in the first quarter. The scatter is up over 30% for up-front. Then over on the right, bottom right, utilization rates in our equipment management business are pretty much flat. You can see the modular space and the rail business, about flat. Not great levels. Trailers have picked up a bit in December and European equipment management is down slightly. So we continue to see slow economic growth. And that's the way we're planning and operating our businesses. 

 So I'm going to cover some of the businesses in the next few pages, but I thought I would start with a first quarter outlook. Here are the dynamics that we're going to see. You can see that the power business, first of all, is going to have a decline in revenue in the first quarter, about 20%. And with Greenville units down to 32 shipments, that decline versus about 69 units last year is going to result in an operating profit decline of about 50% just as we planned. If you look at the rest of the long cycle, we're going to have good revenue growth, 5 to 10%. And strong operating profit growth. Services obviously is a critical component of that profitability. And I'll show you that by business in a second. 

 The short cycle, if you look at the revenue ex-Olympics, the Olympics were in the first quarter of 2002 obviously, don't repeat in 2003. Revenue would be about 10% to 15%. And the operating profit will be up 15 to 20. That's really driven by great strength in industrial systems, specialty materials, NBC, all those businesses will have operating profit growth in excess of 20%. And plastics, right now what we're counting on as I showed you, a pretty tough outlook. Good revenue growth as we continue to get the volume. And operating profit is somewhere between 0 and 15%, down, depending on how the price and inflation dynamics shake out in the quarter. 

 Financial services, revenue up about 5 and profit between 5 and 10%. Again, strength in commercial and consumer, up double digit and insurance turnaround starts right away in the first quarter. So when you look at the profile here for the first quarter, just like we said in December, we'll report earnings somewhere down between 5% and 10%. Ex-power, which is going to impact our results all year will be up double digit. And for the total year you can see the reported in the range of $1.55 to $1.70 up 3 to 13% and ex-power up. So broad improvement, ex-power, and it starts right in the first quarter. 

 Let me take you through a couple of key businesses here. First, the top half of these charts are the same numbers that we showed in December. I'm not going to cover the total year numbers for each of these businesses. I thought what I would do is just give you an update from the December meeting. Basically the recent customer announcements that have been out in the marketplace for some terminations by different customers are completely consistent with our '03 plan in power. We're on track for 122 Greenville gas turbine deliveries. The service business and the oil and gas business remain very strong. The restructuring is on track. We had $200 million of restructuring in 2002, as we said, in power, and we are getting great growth in the wind business. 

 If you look at the first quarter dynamics, with the gas turbine shipments down from 69 last year, that's going to drive revenue down about 20%. Despite that we have great service growth, strong double digit and great oil and gas growth and the op profit will be down about 50% as we said. 

 If you look at medical on the right side, again the annual numbers are what we laid out in December. From an update perspective, we're thrilled to have announced the acquisition of Instrumentarium which really extends our reach in the healthcare IT market into operating room. We're very excite about that. We have good services momentum. Jeff indicated in the fourth quarter that orders were up about 15%. Healthcare IT orders were up about 50% in the fourth quarter. Great momentum in that business. And we're going to get the benefits of some of the consolidation and cost benefits, and clearly better comparisons with the Japan and the Latin America softness starting in the first quarter of last year, that's going to help us and we're feeling good about revenue up 10 to 15 and op profit up 10 to 15 for the quarter for medical. 

 If you look at NBC, for the total year, we're expecting a good year as we said in December, Bravo acquisition was completed, which helps a lot. We have Telemundo and Bravo in '03 adding about $125 to $150 million of operating profit, which is great news. We have a strong lead in the network leading into the February sweeps. The Q1 scatter, as I said, was over 30%. The ad market continues to be very strong for us. We're 96% sold out in all day parts in the first quarter, to give you an indicator how strong that is for us. So if you look at the first quarter dynamics, the revenue's going to be down because of the Olympics. Ex the Olympics it will be up strong double digit, 15 to 20 and op profit will be up 20 or so. So a great quarter in NBC on the way. 

 On the right side is aircraft engines. You can see the total year dynamics that we're expecting. Strong service momentum. The fourth quarter orders were up over 27%, as I said. In the first quarter, we think the service business, plus the military business, up double digit, will more than offset the commercial deliveries being down about 20% and we're continuing to invest obviously in technology. We expect the revenues in the quarter to be up 0 to 5 and the op profit to be up 5 to 10 for the engines business. 

 A look at the key businesses in capital. On the left side, the commercial finance business, obviously the outline for the year is for a good, strong year. The assets were up 14% in 2002. We did close the ADB and Deutsche deals. We had solid new business line during the year, up 13%. Net revenues in the commercial business were up double digit, up 10 points. And the asset quality, as I showed you, was improved with delinquencies down and the acquisition integrations that have were on target. So the first quarter earnings in the commercial segment looks to be up about 15%. 

 And on the right side, the consumer business, we continue to have good, strong asset growth. The portfolio quality as we showed you, remains very strong with sustained risk management and the acquisitions and the core growth have given us assets up 20%, which we think are going to lead to first quarter earnings outlook up about 10%. So good performance in the financial businesses. 

 Our next page is ERC. We indicated in November that we were going to have reserve strengthening in the fourth quarter. We did do that, $2.5 billion and I just want to point out that during the year we strengthened reserves in ERC by $3.5 billion. So we've really addressed the issue in ERC head on. When you take a look at what 2003 looks like for ERC, we're going to shrink the business. We did indicate that we're going to plan on exiting the life re business sometime in the first half of '03. 

 We're going to run the property and casualty business going forward to improve return on equity and we're driving price in mix. We've got about $1 billion of price in 2002. It was up 16% on an earned basis. We expect double digit price to continue in '03. The portfolio investment quality, as we've indicated, is very strong and we do see ERC earning somewhere between $300, $400 million as we turn around this business. So with that, I'll turn it back over to Jeff to take a look at 2003. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thanks. Just to finish up here, 2003 summary, this chart again is from December. We think power is very well understood. We feel that the other long cycle businesses, engines, transportation, and medical are very solid. Engine services momentum, medical, core performance and acquisitions, and service growth in general, I think positions us very well here. 

 Short cycle is solid. NBC, industrial, and special materials are entering the year with momentum. And plastics will be impacted by raw material costs but the other fundamentals for plastics are working right now. Our financial services are strong and everything we see at ERC indicates we're on track for $300 to $400 million of earnings this year. So overall we feel like we're solidly in the range we showed you in December. 

 Before we close today I just wanted to give you an update. You read yesterday that we're going to launch a new ad campaign. "We bring good things to life" has been the GE tagline since the early '80s. It's been one of nine major campaigns at GE since 1930. Our new slogan, "Imagination at work" really has focused on capturing the spirit we're building at GE. It places our emphasis on innovation and break-through ideas. The ads we're going to have are going to really focus on consumerizing GE technology in a way that's simple and powerful and humorous and we think the ads will demonstrate our commitment to lead in the future. We have three new ads launching on the Golden Globes this weekend and three more schedule for the second quarter and we're going to emphasize medical and power and engines, appliances and plastics. But this will be a companywide effort and there will be a print campaign as well. So that was something that we announced also this week. 

 I just finally to wrap up and then open up for questions. I think there's four or five things to keep in mind when you look at GE this year. You know, we've got excellent businesses across the board, got where we're going to see broad-based business growth this year and with pretty good visibility in most of the company. So we think we've got a very strong foundation. We've taken a lot of moves to strengthen our balance sheet, our cash flow is solid, and we remain one of the few triple A rated companies in the world. 

 We'll continue the portfolio transformation to make this a global technology, services and financial company and having lower volatility in financial services. And we continue to focus on initiatives to change the company every day and technology, globalization services and customer centricity. So I think we're well positioned for 2003 with the target of $1.55 to $1.70. And now, Rich, let me turn it back over to you. 

 RICHARD WACKER: If we could get the Q&A going, that would be great. We'll take questions here. We went a little long on the discussion of materials. We'll keep the lines going so that we get a good amount of Q&A in. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, sir. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to ask a question, please press star, 1 on your touch-tone telephone. If your question has been answered or you wish to withdraw your question, please press star, 2. Questions will be taken in the order in which they are received. Our first question comes from Jeff Sprague of Salomon Smith Barney. Your question, please. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Thanks. Good morning, everyone. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hey, Jeff. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: I guess I kind of hate to lead with a tax rate question, but I think it's the thing that me and many others are having kind of the hardest time figuring out and forecasting. I was hoping you could, you know, kind of, in light of how things played out in the tax rate for '02, give us some guidance on what to expect for '03. And also, if you could just walk us through maybe a little bit more explicitly, the math of the Q4 tax rate. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Let me start with the Q4 tax rate. If you look at the industrial -- or let me start with the Q4 tax rate. If you look at the industrial tax rate, it's about 19.1% which is down from last year, Jeff, about nine points. That's taking out the impact of goodwill. So that's 19.1%. We said there's really three drivers giving us three events that give rise to that lower tax rate on the industrial side of the company. First, the tax-efficient exchange of Bravo, of the assets that we held for the Bravo cable station impact that rate by about three and a half points. 

 The second thing is we had an IRS refund agreement on exports outside of aircraft engines covering about a ten-year period. So businesses other than aircraft engines that was about three points, and that was settled in the quarter. And then in addition, we continue to have a growth in our international operations, which is the difference, which is at lower tax rates. So the fourth quarter industrial tax rates driven by those events, if you look at the total year for the industrial tax rate, it's at about 26.7 and the drivers I indicated in the fourth quarter effect that versus last year. Plus in the second quarter you remember we had a settlement with the IRS that we refer to as code W that impact that tax rate for the total year. So 26.7 for the year. We would anticipate going into 2003 the rate's going to be close to that going forward and that's kind of what we're planning on as we go into '03. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: Now why would it be close to that if we've kind of run all the one-offs through the P&L in '02? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well we do have some of the structural change that continues to drive that tax rate down, the mix of businesses, the growth in international are some of the key factors, Jeff. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: Are you counting on some other tax refunds or something in '03 also? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Not specifically. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: But, you know obviously with a company of our size and the number of businesses we have and the global structure, there could be some of those opportunities. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE: And how about just to comment on the GE Capital tax rate for '03? 

 KEITH SHERIN: If you look at the Capital tax rate, for '02, when you go into the numbers, you've got to strip out that ERC charge obviously. There was, for the fourth quarter, an 800 net tax credit position as a result of the tax effect of that charge. So if you take that out, the full year 2002 tax rate, excluding the impact of ERC and equity, was about 15% for Capital. And right now we would anticipate that as you go into 2003 in Capital, the outlook for the rate is in the range of 16% to 18%, up about two to four points, excluding the impact of ERC. And again that's driven by the business mix that we have and the growth that we have in global earnings. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Nicole Parent of Banc of America Securities. Your question, please. 

 NICOLE PARENT, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Morning, guys. I guess I was just wondering, Jeff, if you could -- I know you held your BOCA meeting the first meeting of January to rally the troops and if you could give us a sense of what the focus of that meeting was and how it maps out for the managers over '03? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Nicole, my focus inside the company is pretty much mirrors what I talked about outside the company and that is keeping the company focused on growth and cash. I think those are the two metrics that we've got all the initiatives lined up to drive so that, you know, on the growth side we had sessions on technology, development, globalization, customer centricity, the things we are doing to build these new growth platforms like water technology and things like that. And, look. I think in many ways our revenue as you look at this quarter is at or above just about anybody else out there from a standpoint of how the company's growing. 

 And then the other focus is on cash. 60% of our manager's pay this year is going to be focused on cash and return on total capital. That's been a big initiative inside the company and that's how the managers and everybody inside the company is really focused and being led. You know, again I think the spirit is very high inside the company. If you look at the last year in a time period of real turbulence of our top 600 managers, our unforced turnover is less than 3%. So the GE team is solid and the focus for '03 is growth and cash. 

 NICOLE PARENT: Okay. And I guess the follow-up on aircraft engines for Keith. With revenues coming in at $11.1 billion for the full year, that's up significantly from the $10.8 you thought you were going to do in the December 17th meeting. How does that shake out as we look ahead into '03? No change in the forecast? Could you explain a little bit more on the increase in the reserves there? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Well, we did have higher revenues, as you point out. We had a great quarter in services. You know, you saw those spares orders were pretty good. So the strong military deliveries and the strong service revenue helped us to have a great quarter. When I talked about what we did in the quarter, we did have about $40 million of higher R&D spending versus last year, which is in the variance. And we also did strengthen some reserves. We did take a little over $35 million to put up some reserves against United, and we took about $20 million of pretax reserves on varying exposure. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Don McDougal of J.P. Morgan. Your question, please. 

 DON MCDOUGAL, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Morning, Don. 

 DON MCDOUGAL: A quick follow-up just on the tax question. Maybe to the sustainability of the guidance for this year. Is that something we should model on a go-forward basis? And then also, just what the cash tax anticipated would be. And then my second question would be on the pension where you talked about a $5 billion surplus. And if memory serves me, that was $15 when the annual was filed last year and if you could maybe walk us through where that $10 billion of surplus went, you know, in terms of the changes in assumptions or actual plan returns. And then to get a sense for, you know, if the market stayed about where it is, where that surplus would end up by the end of the year. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Okay, Don. Let me try the first one. From a tax perspective, I guess the only visibility we've modeled really is 2003. So barring knowing anything else, that's the only guidance I have for you. From a cash perspective, that's about what we're getting on the book taxes as well. From a pension perspective, we did have about a $14 billion surplus at the end of last year, going to about $5 billion. Obviously that's been impacted by the market returns. It's also been impacted by the updates that we've given to pensioners where we've increased their benefits. And it's impacted by paying out pension benefits. 

 In addition, it's impacted by changes in interest rates, lower interest rates increase that obligation. So we're ending the year, 2002, with about a $5 billion surplus. Going forward into 2003, we did not change our earnings growth rate assumption. You remember last year we went to 8.5% on an earnings growth rate assumption. That is -- that has been shown to be about the most conservative 10% of companies in 2002. We did see some companies lower their earnings growth rate recently as you go into 2003, but we think 8.5% is still very conservative. We did not change any assumptions about demographics or anything. We have a 6 3/4% discount rate and we would anticipate if the market is relatively flat, the stock market performance is relatively flat, that we'll have a couple of billion dollars of surplus at the end of '03 as well. 

 DON MCDOUGAL: Okay. And just one more before I pass it off. You had mentioned divesting the life reinsurance business in the first half of '03. I was wondering if you could maybe give us a sense of, you know, relative to book value, where we should think about those proceeds being and the impact of that sale on the rest of ERC. Does that increase your options for, you know, for repositioning or change in any way? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, we'll see. We'll see what the market will bear on the ERC life business. The book value is somewhere around 2.2, $2.3 billion. So again, that's going to depend upon what the market feels about the life reinsurance, Don, and we'll see where that comes out. Obviously I think that the life re represented on an $8 billion premium space is about 25% of the premiums of ERC. So we think that separating that business and shrinking ERC to be more focused on P&C and commercial does help us in terms of flexibility and future positioning. 

 DON MCDOUGAL: Thanks, Keith. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thanks, Don. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Stuart Hasnowski of Vanguard. Your question, please. 

 STUART HASNOWSKI, VANGUARD: Good morning, gentlemen. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Morning. 

 STUART HASNOWSKI: A couple of questions for you. Was -- can you talk about the foreign exchange impact on your results? I didn't see anything on there. And following up on the question with the [INAUDIBLE]. Are your estimates for [INAUDIBLE] services earnings, does that include life re, or have you already pretty much excluded that? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Let me start with the first question. I didn't mention FX. If you look in the supplemental schedules that we put out on the web, there's an earnings variance for the fourth quarter. FX impacted our earnings in the fourth quarter negatively by $18 million. So it was a relatively minor impact. So that's the impact in the quarter. Pretty small. Overall we're pretty well balanced from a currency perspective. From a life re perspective, the forecasts that we've been talking about do include the impact of dispositioning that business in the first half and that's the way we've been planning the year. 

 STUART HASNOWSKI: Okay. And a follow on to the financial services net income. It seems as though there's a fairly wide range of possibilities there. Can you talk about really what are the drivers in terms of kind of firming that up and narrowing that down? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, it's -- if you look at Jeff's '03 score card, the things that drive you in the range in financial services, we said on the dynamics page that, you know, to get to the high end of the range, we've got to have ERC execute. We think that's going to happen but we've obviously disappointed in 2002 and we need to prove ourselves. We're going to look at asset growth and acquisitions and what's the environment for that. Right now the pipeline is pretty good. We've had some very good discussions on transactions at the capital board. It depends on asset quality and losses. 

 Right now when you look at delinquencies and you look at our loss reserve levels at the end of the fourth quarter and you look at nonearning assets, we feel like we're in pretty good shape there. And then economically on the other end, both the consumer side and the industrial side, 2002 was a tough year for bankruptcies, as you know. And then on the consumer side, we've got to watch personal bankruptcies and see where that goes. So that's going to be -- those are the factors that we think about when you look at the range that we've laid out for 2003 for financial services. And I would say that they will get clearer as we go through the quarters here. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I would also say if you look at 2002, there were three sources of volatility. It was ERC, it was the private equity portfolio and it was bankruptcies like World Com. I feel much better about ERC and how we are positioned this year. I think we're winding down the equity portfolio and it's difficult to predict on the bankruptcy side but there seems to be a little bit more stability right now than what we saw certainly in the middle of last year. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John Inch of Merrill Lynch. Your question, please. 

 JOHN INCH, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you. Good morning. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Morning, John. 

 JOHN INCH: Morning. Just wondering on the power termination benefits, could you remind us before self restructuring what the total was on a net income basis this year and what you would anticipate it be next year and then what sort of restructuring in power after those benefits you would anticipate? Potentially? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. I don't -- I'll give it on a pretext in that's okay, John. 

 JOHN INCH: That's fine, yeah. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Okay. For the full year, 2002, we had about $930 million of benefits from terminations. Which were a little higher than what we were anticipating. Again as I said, we really don't control when a customer is going to make a call about their termination. That was about $100 million pretax higher than we were anticipating in November. On the other side of that, we offset that partially with cost actions to change the cost structure of our systems by about $200 million during 2002. We are currently anticipating about $500 million pretax terminations in 2003. So down about $400 million. Again I don't have a good handle on timing of that based on what the customers are going to do, but for the full year, that's our current estimate. And we anticipate having about $300 million of pretax restructuring in the power business in 2003 as we continue to take that cost structure down. 

 JOHN INCH: Just as a quick follow-up, Keith. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. 

 JOHN INCH: Your comment on perhaps long-term service agreements, you know, it did mothball some turbines. I'm just saying, my question is, your forecast revenue assumptions in those areas. Have those been changed of late, or are they on track? 

 KEITH SHERIN: No, those are pretty much on track. I think we showed you, both with Rick Artegus in early 2002 at the services meeting how he is modeling his services business in power systems, anticipating a utilization by customers in turbines that will and won't be put into service. And Jon Rice confirmed that in November. So that's been pretty good. Good performance and has been performing along with expectations up to this point. We did have the growth in the CSAs up to $75 billion as we said and we do anticipate another $10 billion of growth in the CSAs in 2003. 

 JOHN INCH: Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thanks, John. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Holton of T. Rowe Price. Your question, please. 

 MIKE HOLTON, T. ROWE PRICE: Good morning. Two quick ones. What's the free cash flow or the cash flow from operations, ex-progress guidance for '03 that you-all are using? And the second one is the ITS business in Europe, was there any sort of gain or loss taken on that and does that have any sort of -- I know it's pretty small, but does it have any sort of impact on net income for '03? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. First for the CFOAX progress. We gave you guidance in December that it was going to be about flat with the exception of the change in the capital dividend. As you know, about 30% of the earnings and capital have been dividended, including in the CFOAX progress, and with the change to 10%, excluding that change, we're going to be about flat. And then on ITS Europe, it really didn't have an impact on the net, on the bottom line. It had a little geography. There were losses on a pretax basis of about $50 million and there were benefits on the tax line of about $50 million from that disposition. And we're happy to have restructured that business and gotten out of it in Europe, let me tell you. 

 MIKE HOLTON: Okay. Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: You're welcome. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Michael Regan of Credit Suisse First Boston. Your question, please. 

 MICHAEL REGAN, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Great. Two questions. One for Jeff, one for Keith. Jeff, in medical, just given the rate of change, especially in the fourth quarter for that business, what gives you the level of confidence that you sort of get back 10 to 15% top line growth in that business in '03? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I think, Michael, again if you look at medical, the product performance that we saw there was very strong. The service revenue and backlog has grown. The service order rate was very high. And when we look at some of the other segments like healthcare IT, we see some real growth going on there. In addition, you know, some of the restructuring dollars that Keith talked about earlier are going to go to medical to allow us to consolidate some operations and take some costs out of the business. If you remember, you know, we've been basically talking about Japan and Latin America having an impact. Those are already built into the run rates looking into next year and particularly in the first quarter I think we'll have, you know, very favorable comparisons in the first quarter and carry that momentum into next year and throughout the year. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: What's that 10 to 15, Jeff, ex-Instrumentarium? Sort of mid-single digits? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Well, the 10 to 15, Michael that we're talking about doesn't include any in Instrumentarium. And I think the way to think about Instrumentarium, again, we're just beginning the approval process but let's say we got half the year, let's say in Instrumentarium. That would be 50 to $60 million more of op profit versus what we have in the current models. Put us toward the high end of the medical range. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Got you. And, Keith, we've seen what seems to be a trend of accelerated settlement on the asbestos front in the industrial world, or at least a move to accelerate it, settlement there. And Traveler's stepped up and took a pretty big charge for asbestos reserves, I think early last week. And I'm just wondering what the risk is that there's a $500 or $1 billion charge for asbestos liability in ERC this year. 

 KEITH SHERIN: I'd say it's very low. We've done an evaluation obviously of our reserve positions in ERC. I think we told you in the fourth quarter when we strengthened the reserves in ERC, we took our asbestos rate up to 12 years of reserves and, you know, we've been pretty much all over that. Obviously it's an area that has a lot of volatility and we think we've covered ourselves adequately there, Michael, with all the best information that we have. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: So all the reserving that you did, especially on asbestos, anticipated perhaps what we're seeing as faster settlement? I mean, I'm not concerned about the overall reserve for it but just, it seems as if we're going to get settlements that are coming faster and what the time value of that might end up being. 

 KEITH SHERIN: That was all factored into the thinking when you look at the reserves. Obviously -- and as I said, we increase that reserve over $150 million in the fourth quarter to get to the 12-year rate. So with the best information we have, yes. 

 MICHAEL REGAN: Okay. Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Steven East of A.G. Edwards. Your question, please. 

 STEVEN EAST, A.G. EDWARDS: Good morning. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Good morning. 

 STEVEN EAST: A couple of quick questions. First, Jeff, if you look at -- if we had a quick resolution to Iraq and you-all had assumed 2003 economic environment identical to 2002, if 2003 is stronger and a quick end to Iraq, where do you see the big drivers of your business gaining beyond what you-all are looking at right now? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: It's tough to -- you know, it's tough to predict that exactly. I think the most visible place where the threat of the war is taking place today is in the -- is in the price of oil, the combination of that and Venezuela. You know, I think if you look at where oil should be at this point in the economic cycle, it's probably $8 or $10 less than where it is today. And if '92 was a guide, it has an immediate impact on the plastics, raw material cost. And that's probably the most visible, the most visible impact that we can see, at least in our range of businesses. 

 STEVEN EAST: Okay. And a stronger economy would -- where would it hit? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, again I'm not -- you know, it's difficult for me to predict exactly where the -- you know, what impact a short war would have on the overall economy. I think it would, you know, improve the -- eliminate one area of uncertainty and I think still, what we're struggling with, which is what I talked about in December is that industrial capacity utilization is still in the mid '70s and until that really gets worked out in the system, I think that's really what's keeping us from being as strong an economy as we all would like to see. 

 STEVEN EAST: Okay. Then maybe this is for Keith but on slide 7 you did the cash walk. 2003 obviously can't look like 2002 with that. Could you tell me what you-all believe will probably be the biggest swings on those line items, which line items? Obviously the ERC infusion. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. 

 STEVEN EAST: But what beyond that? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, right now I think when you go down there, we've made a couple of announcements. First of all, we've increased the dividends and that will be about $7.6 billion. We've said that we'll have the stock repurchase continue but probably to a level closer to $500 million for the year. The acquisitions dispositions is something that's not going to be sure. We have said that we had about $8 to $10 billion of capacity for acquisitions on top of the GE Capital retained earnings growth. What would show up in here is probably a 4 to $5 billion depending on what we do with dispositions, Steve. We don't anticipate obviously any more infusions into ERC and the [INAUDIBLE] collection decline is anticipated to be about $3 billion instead of $5 billion. So that improves as well. Those will be the dynamics. 

 STEVEN EAST: Okay. Thanks a lot. 

 KEITH SHERIN: You're welcome. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. Your question, please. 

 BOB CORNELL, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Hey, good morning, everybody. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Morning, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: Some housekeeping items. Where actually did the Bravo gains show up in the chart of accounts? The same thing I assume the termination agreements are in the power line but where is Bravo, first of all? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Bravo's in other income. And also in corporate -- other income. 

 BOB CORNELL: And what about the various restructuring items you mentioned? Are they scattered through the line items as you indicated for power? In other words -- 

 KEITH SHERIN: Only in, only in the power business. The others will be decisions that we made at corporate. Only in power and some in NBC. I'm sorry, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: Okay. So the power is up in that number and then -- 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yes. 

 BOB CORNELL: And then you said what other one? NBC? 

 KEITH SHERIN: NBC -- I'll have to get you the exact details on NBC. A little bit of the Bravo gain is in NBC and a little bit of the restructuring are taken as NBC. I don't think it really -- I think it netted out to be zero in the results you see, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: So most of the Bravo -- the Bravo gain and most of the restructuring is down in corporate and other? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yes. 

 BOB CORNELL: Okay. Just, you know, also on the short cycle stuff you talked about, right, you mentioned the, you know, plastics was up, volume and so forth but you end up five in the first quarter, you talked about you know the spares were strong in the fourth quarter but you have a lesser run rate in the first quarter and seems like you are being pretty conservative on the short-cycle stuff except for, you know, the NBC scatter price. I mean, why the dimunition of some of the fourth quarter strength in some of the short cycle businesses here the first quarter? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, plastics, that's based on what we're seeing in terms of order rates. Aircraft engines is a tradition -- I think your looking at the cycle in the traditional pattern by quarter, by year. There's some cyclicality there. We do have some pretty strong orders in the fourth quarter, anticipating price increases and things like that and then the first quarter is usually a decline from the fourth quarter from a trend perspective. So I hope you are right, that we're being overly conservative here in terms of how we are looking at the short cycle. We're trying to give you what we think realistically is going to happen here, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: One final question, guys. I mean, normally GE starts out with an effective tax rate in the first quarter at the high end and then the tax rate typically comes down over the course of the year. Is that what we're likely to see in the pattern this year? I think you mentioned to an earlier question the year would be something like 18? Are we going to start out higher and then come down as the year proceeds? 

 KEITH SHERIN: You know, I don't have it all broken out by quarter. I would say that you ought to plan on it to be about flat at the levels we talked about for the year. Again, we don't plan for any of these unusual items coming in and creating a lump, but I would plan on it being about flat. 

 BOB CORNELL: Okay. Thanks. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thank you, Bob. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Cudi Gran of ABN Amro. Your question, please. 

 CUDI GRAN, ABN AMRO: Yes. Good morning. I have two questions regarding your acquisition in power systems of Enron's wind activities. You see that you see great growth and the west coast slides from December 17th. You project more than a five doubling of the U.S. wind-power market. I would like to know, is this still your expectation? Could you explain this expectation a bit more? And then my second question is, are you keen on more acquisitions within the wind-power industry? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, maybe I'll take that one. You know, again looking, looking back, we thought we had an unusual opportunity as the Enron wind business was being auctioned earlier this year. We acquired the company for about $150 million. We've infused a lot of technology into the Enron wind business and our goal from a technical standpoint is to make this a product that can stand on its own two feet from a standpoint of cost-to-power generation, not really counting so much on government subsidies in the future. We're well on the path of doing that. A lot of the growth you see is in -- globally is in Europe, but we also think that there's major utilities in the U.S. like Florida Power and Light, who have declared that wind-power is going to be a key part of their strategy and they have become big customers as well. The business will have a billion dollars of revenue in 2003 and $50 million of earnings, and the acquisition will pay for itself within two years. I think in terms of how fast and how big the market grows, you know, still remains to be determined and is somewhat difficult to predict, but people in the -- in Europe have declared that wind is going to be 12% of the power generation in that region. In the U.S. strategically wind is considered to be a key growth of source of power generation as well. So we think this is a growth business that will pay for itself by next year. 

 CUDI GRAN: Okay. And my second question, are you keen on more acquisitions in this industry? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I don't think we need to, to be honest with you. I think we did the one we needed to and now I think the rest of our growth will be organic. We feel like we're -- 

 CUDI GRAN: Okay. Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Very strong already. And already growing. 

 CUDI GRAN: Okay. Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley. Your question, please. 

 SCOTT DAVIS, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, everyone. Thanks for taking my call. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Good morning. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: I just want to climb a little bit into the pricing issue, not to beat a dead horse here, but are there other businesses besides plastics that you are having trouble passing on higher input or higher labor costs, particularly with your higher medical costs that have been written a lot about recently? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I would say the -- I would say across the industrial businesses, NBC has got the best dynamic force obviously right now. It's been proven time and time again in our portfolio that when we introduce new technology, we're able to get priced for it because that's what the customers are demanding. Overall in the portfolio, we had a price decline of about -- what was the overall year? 1 percent, 1.1%? 

 KEITH SHERIN: 1.4%. So, you know, clearly there are businesses where you have to, with overcapacity and supply/demand dynamics, deal with lower prices and you've got to get productivity and you've got to lower your cost structure, you've got to go to low cost industries countries, you've got to drive out your sourcing costs to be able to deal with that. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Scott, I would say the one positive is as service grows, our service pricing remains very strong and continues to be very good and the new products we're introducing have higher margins and offer some antidote to that as well. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. And if I could follow up and just get an update on what's going on in the power business as far as pricing is concerned on the gas turbines. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Sure. In the fourth quarter orders in the power business, we had pricing down around 3.5, 4%. That was on about ten gas turbine units. So to give you an indication of the size of the marketplace and the type of pricing going on in the marketplace currently. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: We'll take one more question, Nicole. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our last question is from Patrice Lambert of CTC Securities. Your question, please. 

 PATRICE LAMBERT, CTC SECURITIES: Thank you. Good morning. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Good morning. 

 PATRICE LAMBERT: If we just focus on power equipment order, what do you see the trend, when do you think the trend could swing and ramp up again? That's my first question. Is that from middle '03 or restarting in beginning of '04? Could you remind us what is the planned shipment for power for full year '04? And the last question, of course, power is also depending partly on the situation in the transmission and distribution in the U.S. When do you think the new start-up market designed in the U.S. could be clearly implemented and could boost the orders in power? Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Well, if you look at the powers systems market, I think you've got to separate what's going on with the gas turbine business from the rest of that business. Oil and gas obviously, wind. And you also need to look at the gas turbine business from a U.S. perspective versus a global perspective. You know, we would not anticipate having great orders growth for the U.S. gas turbine market on the large gas turbines for a couple of years. But when you look at what's going on globally, we continue to have very good demand in Europe. We're starting to see some activity in Asia. For gas turbine business. We have a lot of projects that we're quoting on in China. And so we think we're going to continue to see pretty good demand globally while the U.S. market stays pretty much flat. You had a number of parts to your question here. Give me the second piece of the power one? 

 PATRICE LAMBERT: Yes. With the the number of planned units, planned shipment for power in '04. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Sorry. We have been talking about 50 large gas turbine units out of Greenville and that's currently what we see for 2004 right now. And then there's an additional number of units out of Europe. 75 or so in Europe. 

 PATRICE LAMBERT: Europe's been relatively flat. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yeah. 

 PATRICE LAMBERT: Okay. And the last question, was the transmission distribution situation in the U.S. which looks free so far, what do you see? What is your expectation? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: It's really more difficult for us to predict in that area and, you know, just based on what we've seen in its entirety, we don't see a lot of new transmission being built in the U.S., but that's one that's more difficult for us to predict than the gas turbine shipments. 

 KEITH SHERIN: We have seen some changes around regulation to try and improve private ownership of transmission and distribution, which may provide some incentives for reinvestment, and we have been able to benefit from that in the capital side a bit, but Jeff covered it really from what it means for us from a generation side. 

 PATRICE LAMBERT: Okay. Thanks. You want to -- 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I just want to wrap up the call. Thanks. Looking forward to a good 2003, consistent with what we said in December. Now what I would like to do is we've got one of the commercials that we are going to launch this weekend and we would like to show that over, you know, over the web before we depart. 

 RICHARD WACKER: And as we go, the materials again are available on the website. You can get them. We'll have the replay up this afternoon and you'll be able to listen in if you missed anything during the call. Again, there are supplemental data schedules that are on the site as well and as always, Joanna and I are available for follow-up questions and calls. You can get our contact information on the website as well. So with that we'll run the commercial. 

 OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude the audio portion of today's call. Thank you for your participation. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   AN
Document fndw000020030117dz1h002h0
  


 HD
 Q3  2002  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
12,320 words
   PD
11 October 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good day, ladies and gentlemen and welcome to the General Electric third quarter 2002 conference call. 

 At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. My name is Nicole I'll be your conference coordinator today. If at any time during the call you require assistance, press star followed by zero and a conference coordinator will be happy to assist you. As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the program over to your host for today's conference, Richard Wacker, vice president of investor communications. Please proceed. 

   TD
 RICHARD WACKER, GENERAL ELECTRIC, VICE PRESIDENT OF INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS: Thank you. We want to welcome you to our third quarter conference call. You have the press release that was out earlier this morning, the slides that we'll be walking through during the call are now available on the web site, www.ge.comforward/investor. They're up there as well as a package of some supplemental information that we always provide. If you don't see it refresh you can get the down load and take notes on those pages as we go if you would like. As always elements of this presentation are forward-looking, and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses' we see them today. These elements can obviously change as the world changes and so please interpret them in that light. We're going to cover third quarter performance and our outlook for the year and to do that we have Jeff Immelt and Keith Sherin. I'll turn it over to you, Jeff. 

 JEFF IMMELT, GENERAL ELECTRIC, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER: Good morning, everybody. In a particular difficult public economy GE will earn 4.1 billion dollars in the fourth quarter, up 25 percent. This is approximately the same amount we earned in all of 1992 and I'm proud of our team's effort. I think it's important to put the company in perspective. Here's what we'll deliver in 2002. Solid earnings growth. Strong cash flow. 

 Margins that are expanding both operating margin and return on total capital. We'll maintain our triple A rating. Good dividend performance and we've improved our set of businesses around the company with growth in areas like security and health care information technology. 

 Meanwhile, we're improving the strategic health of our company. We're enhancing an already great set of businesses, investing in our most attractive opportunities while divesting the slower growth businesses. And this trend is just beginning. The team's executing on a growth agenda. Our new products are growing by 25 percent. And I think you saw evidence of this in our last analyst meeting. 

 Services continue to expand on our long-term service agreements are now almost 70 billion dollars. We're making real gains globally, especially in China. Our growth in China is up 30 percent. Finally our operating disciplines continue to drive good results. Cash flow from operating activities is up 16 percent in the quarter. And we've emphasized cash as a key metric for our leadership team. It's difficult to plan for all of the volatility in this environment but we're hitting our commitments based on the strength of our business model. 

 Now I'm going to frame our discussion for today. Give you just a third quarter overview. The economic growth at least based on the world that's viewed by GE seemed slow in the quarter. Volume growth was positive but slower than the second quarter with excess capacity pricing pressure remains tough and our plastics business we were unable to recover the oil driven inflation. We really don't see a double dip, just slow economic growth. But none the less the portfolio delivered results. Power NBC commercial and consumer finance all grew earnings by double digits in the quarter. 

 We had 16 percent revenue growth in our short cycle businesses, 21 percent asset growth in capital and 12 percent orders growth in medical, all setting us up for a good fourth quarter. The company's fundamentals remain strong. Again, as I said earlier, our cash flow from operations grew 16 percent. We had 50 basis point rate in OEM rate and return on total capital. Service grew double digit and we have a full technology pipeline our funding plan has been successful and remains on track and we'll close several deals in the fourth quarter based on a very strong business development pipeline. We're maintaining our dollar 65 earnings per share estimate in the environment we see today. 

 And lastly, at the end of this presentation I am going to give our thinking on the five operating operating factors that will impact 2003. This has been a tougher environment in many ways than the one we expected in July. However, we will deliver our third quarter earnings of 41 cents per share. And now I want Keith to take you through an update of our operations. Keith. 

 ))Keith Stern: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to cover four things this morning. I'll take you through the financial results. I'll show you the business trends beer experiencing in our operations. I'll show you some of the segment results for both the third quarter and the outlook for the fourth quarter. And then cover a few operating highlights. So let me start with the financial SPLAER summary RI for the third quarter revenues 32.6 billion up 11 percent. Industrial sales were up six percent. GE capital services revenues were up 13 percent. And if you look at the contributing value which is the GE capital revenue less their interest costs, that's the amount we have to earn a return and cover our operating cost SZ on that's up 19 percent in the quarter. So good performance there. 

 Our EPS at 41 cents as Jeff mentioned is up 24 percent and even if you exclude the two noncash impacts from a lower pension earnings this year and the increase in earnings resulting from not amortizing goodwill it's up 19 percent in the quarter. Our cash flow was great. The cash flow from operating activities excluding progress was up 16 percent. Third quarter year-to-date it was up 24 percent in the third quarter. And return on total capital 27 and a half percent. Very strong up half a point. So we continue to deliver in a tough 2002 environment. Next is a summary of the positives and negatives in the quarter that I covered two weeks ago. All the numbers here on this page are on an after tax basis, net income basis. 

 First in the positives, we closed the GXS sale on 9- 27. As you know we sold the business to Francisco for 800 million dollars, resulting in an after tax gain of 317 million. In the quarter we had some terminations in PowerSystems, which resulted in about 38 million after tax benefit. Down below in the negatives you can see we also had some PowerSystems restructuring that we undertook which cost us about 68 million after tax. And then finally on the positives the GE capital tax rate is low at seven percent. This is principally driven by two factors. First, we had a tax settlement in GE financial assurance related to the 1993 acquisition of union Pacific life. And that Ira settlement resulted in a 75 million dollar benefit in the quarter. 

 That's worth about four points on a tax rate. The second item is the first two negatives down below. Losses in both GE ERC and GE equity resulted in a reduction of our GE capital reported tax rate and those two businesses accounted for seven points of reduction in the rate. So if you start with the seven point rate in capital, you add the four points from Jeff FA and the seven points from the other two business losses that at a high tax rate end up running at about a 18 percent rate which is where we were in the first half. There's a couple of loss performance that drive the performance down. Right now we're estimating the total year rate, because of these factors will be about 13.7 percent and that's what we'll estimate and book in the fourth quarter in capital right now. 

 On the negative side, I've mentioned before that ERC reported a loss of 156 million dollars in the fourth quarter. There's several factors. First we do see some improvements from pricing. And terms and conditions and current year operations. Driving about 140 million dollars positive net income in the quarter. Offset, more than offset by continued adverse development in our commercial lines our property and casualty lines, our European business, about 300 million dollars after tax in the quarter of adverse development. So the business overall reported a loss of 156 and I'll cover more on ERC later. 

 We also had a loss in GE equity of 167 million. We made a decision to exit the underwriting of venture capital and telecom software communications and as a result of that we wrote off over 20 positions over 200 million dollars, approximately 200 million dollars pretax in the quarter. And then on top of that the operating costs of this business and carry cost result in a loss of 167 million. The third item in the negatives here is secure SKURtization we list it as a negative because we did have lower earnings from securitization. We had only 141 million dollars of earnings from secure I sanctions in the quarter versus over 400 million dollars last year. 

 However, when you think about it that's really a positive. We did have good volume growth in the card business and some other commercial equipment financing businesses and those assets are on the books earning returns for us. So we delivered the 41 cents, including several positive and negative developments. 

 Next page I'll cover are some of the current business operating trends and just to take you a walk around the page top left are global short cycle orders and these are just the V percents versus the prior year quarter. This covers our plastics business, our specialty materials business, our consumer business, appliance and lighting and our industrial business. You can see that the orders were up 14 percent in the third quarter and up 15 percent is what we expect in the fourth quarter and you can see the line down below is what the orders are without the impact of acquisitions. So kind of a core growth. Similar story in the middle on the top. That's the domestic U.S. short cycle orders. You can see the flat at about nine percent between the third and fourth quarter and relatively flat on a domestic basis on a core. 

 On the top right are engine average daily spares orders per day in millions of dollars. We ran about $10 million a day in the third quarter. We anticipate we'll run around that level in the fourth quarter. And that will be a good comparison versus last year's fourth quarter after the impact of 9/11. And down bottom left, the largest impact in the short cycle comes from our plastics business. And this chart has got two things on it. It has daily orders in thousands of tons. So there the third quarter we averaged 57 hundred tons a day, which was an eight percent volume fee. You can see that below the bar. And a three percent fee. So about five percent loss in price T the backlog was at 93 thousand tons. And we're counting on going to about 62 hundred tons a day in the fourth quarter which will while that's a strong volume fee you can see a 20 percent V, we think it's very manageable. 

 September, you can see average daily orders were about 69 hundred tons which was up about 10 percent and the 62 hundred tons really when you look at it back to the fourth quarter of 2000, which didn't have any disruption, be about flat with that level. So we're looking for an improvement in plastics. And then on the bottom right, there really are some of the more lagging indicators for us, the industrial systems orders, domestic orders, can you see flat in both the third and fourth quarter. Just very tough environment for any industrial capacity additions. Then the utilization rate of the rental operations in our GE capital equipment management businesses you can see the trends are mixed, but they're operating at fairly low rates. 

 So overall when you look at the business trends the short cycle improvement is mixed. We see slow core growth and pricing pressure everywhere. The next page I'm going to give you a bridge between our results for the third quarter on revenue and our profit or net income and what we think we're going to see in the fourth quarter on revenue and our profit., as soon as Rich gets the chart up here. The middle is kind of how we go from the third quarter to the fourth quarter. If you look at the long cycle businesses we had revenue up one and nonprofit driven up by six. It was driven by PowerSystems. 

 When you go into the fourth quarter Power Systems will decline I'll take you through the results of power. Medical systems were up double digits. Engine will be up five in our profit. So we'll have revenue in the five to ten in the fourth quarter and our profit between flat and down ten and long cycle. Short cycle you saw strong revenue growth in the third quarter without profit up five percent. Principally driven by NBC. As you go into the fourth quarter, we're going to assume that the volume stays at current rates, the price stays at current rates we've got much easier comparisons. We've got much improved cost position. 

 Our business development is really working. You'll see that in the results of the segments. And all the segments, every segment here except for consumer has positive R profit in the quarter. We're counting on a new good revenue quarter up 17 and strong profit up 15 to 17. Financial services you see in the quarter the revenue was very strong with the R profit net income in actually capital up 17 percent and we see great results in our consumer and our commercial businesses and those continue. We also have pegged ERC losses for the year at around 450 million dollars or the high end of the range I said a couple weeks ago. That's what we're counting on in the quarter. And we'll get a zero to five percent revenue growth up 10 to 20 percent. 

 Strong double digit growth in GE capital earnings in the fourth quarter. So we'll up five in revenue up 15 percent and that's what Jeff said we're maintaining the O 2 STOIX in a tougher environment than we planned. Let me take you through a few business segments now. First is on the long cycle left side PowerSystems they had a great quarter operating profit up 16 percent. We shipped 57 gas your BIENS out of Greenville versus 77 last year in the third quarter. We entered 12 new contractual service agreements. 

 We have 26.5 billion dollars a year-to-date of contractual service agreements in power. And the service business continues to perform very well. Revenues were up 20 percent. Operating profit was up over 60 percent our oil and gas business had operating profit up over 75 percent and that's what fueled the profit growth in the quarter. The fourth quarter dynamics remain the same. Gas turbine shipments will be about 40 versus around 70 last year and the double digit growth in services and oil and gas will result in PowerSystems being down around 10 to 20 in the fourth quarter. Aircraft tensions, can you see the revenue was slightly down and our profit was slightly down. 

 Our revenue decline is driven by services and the R profit was principally driven by programs investment. We continue to invest in the product line we have a great bunch of new programs going on. About 50 million dollars increase investment in the quarter versus last year. And the highlights of the third quarter I mentioned spares were up four percent versus Q2. The military revenues up very strong we continue to win in the marketplace and our engines in the new product test programs are going very well. There's no real pickup that we anticipate in the fourth quarter in spares, and we're going to continue to vest in the new profits and the R profit for fourth quarter of engines is flat to slightly positive. 

 Medical systems in the long cycle all the trends are positive. If you look at the orders rate, we continue to win with new product introductions. We've got the double digit orders and in the going backlog. On the left side you can see the revenue on the operating profit. Revenue up seven and R profit up one in the quarter. Really there were two issues we dealt with in the quarter. 

 First was from a market perspective, the Japanese market was down about 20 percent and revenue was worse than we planned, about 15 million dollars. The Latin America market was down about 50 percent and we're still planning about 15 million dollars. Those are just slow markets and those aren't going to change. 

 The second thing is that backlog conversion. We had a delay in transfers caused by site readiness and customers switching from cash to financing at the last minute, did not result in transfers. We had about 35 million dollars in that category gives us a really strong start for the fourth quarter. Over on the right you can see double digit orders have built a great backlog up two and a half billion dollars we have a strong position across all product lines with the new products we're introducing giving us great double digit growth. Good momentum into the third quarter of 2003. 

 Next is a couple of the short cycle segments. Plastics was tougher than we expected early in the quarter. If you look down 19 percent on operating profit volume, price and inflation were all about 25 million worse than our plan. We are counting on that environment continuing. The core volume will be up about 20 percent. That's driven by these comparisons and the run rates I told you about. Pricing is stable. It's flat with third quarter. It's still down about five percent for the fourth quarter last year. But again on the volume side it's easier comparisons. 

 Inflation is a little worse than planned and we're counting on operating profit to be positive in the fourth quarter of five plus percent. On the right side, NBC had a fantastic quarter. Can you see the numbers are just great. 30 percent up on revenue. Fifty-nine percent up on R profit. We had some syndication benefits up about 40 million dollars in the quarter over quarter. The acquisitions are performing. We had better volume, obviously no 9/11 impact last year and the scatter pricing is up very good 12 percent up from the up front. Telemundo and KNTV continued to deliver and we're expecting double digit operating profit from NBC to continue in the fourth quarter. Next is a little bit about financial services. On the left side you can see as set growth up 21 percent. 

 If you look at it by segment now, solid growth in consumer commercial. We're holding equipment management flat and the growth in insurance is limited to Jeff up principally. We had 54 billion dollars of acquisitions the lastest one is helller, about 30 billion dollars. We had about 28 billion in growth on a net core business after securetization so strong core growth. This asset growth positions us well for the fourth quarter and for 2003. 

 If you look at net income on the right side at a billion 551, up seven percent in the third quarter, again strong performance in the consumer commercial businesses. I'll show you that. We'll get good contributions from both acquisitions and core growth. We have 600 million of costs we've taken out of GE capital quarter to date. If you look at the dynamics the commercial strength continued I'll show you that by segment. 

 On the commercial, on the consumer side, can you see assets were up 20 percent, very strong growth. Income is up 11 percent. We had 11 percent growth in core assets and then 66s got us up to the 20 percent. Double digit productivity crossed the segment. Delinquencies are stable. I'll show you more on delinquency later. 

 If you look at the businesses on the details that we sent out the global consumer finance business up 31 percent, just a really terrific performance and good asset growth. Card services in the U.S. is down 19 percent. You take out the securitization benefits which were close to 60 million dollars last year, exsecuritization card is up about 13 percent on a core basis. Good core growth and productivity will drive the similar profile in the fourth quarter with great performance and global consumer finance and the card service's profile look about the same in the fourth quarter as we continue to have lower securitizations. Earnings overall will be up in the double digit range in the consumer segment in the fourth quarter O the right side commercial finance just had a great quarter. 

 You look at assets up 34 percent. Income up 17 percent. Again, the income is up on both strong core growth in acquisitions, the acquisitions added the 36 billion dollars of assets on top of that we had 11 billion of core assets up eight percent. Delinquencies in the commercial segment are also stable. We had double digit growth and commercial finance. G cast and vendor in the quarter if you look at the difference between the asset growth and earnings, really 100 million dollars less earnings in 2002 third quarter from lower securitizations as well in this segment. , which is about 13 points. So the fourth quarter dynamics continue here at core growth and acquisitions will give us double digit growth in the consumer segment. We've got strong double digit growth across the portfolio and structured real estate G cast and consumer finance in the fourth quarter. Added to segments in capital on the left side is equipment management. 

 Can you see assets were flat and income is down. At 82 million dollars, the businesseses earnings are basically flat. There was a one-time tax benefit in pen ski last year that does not repeat. So this is a pretty tough market for us it's economically sensitive similar to short cycle business. We're leading to deep sizing the right capacity. We're not leading the fourth quarter. We think the dynamics will stay the same with a little improvement in utilization in price. We're continuing to take costs out in drive productivity, reduce excess capacity and we have a favorable earnings comparison in the fourth quarter because of some defleeting we did last year this business will have very strong earnings on a V percent in the fourth quarter. 

 On the right side is insurance. Can you see assets up 18 percent. Income at 211 million up 88 percent. Really, that's driven by a couple of things. First, we do have income growth at GE financial assurance and mortgage. And second we're comparing to ERC the last year's impact from 9/11. Those drive the profitability growth. 

 In terms of Jeff FA, Jeff FA will report 182 million dollars of earnings up eight percent. That does include the benefits of the tax settlement I covered earlier. That's offset by lower gains in their PRFL. Their investment portfolio close to 60 million dollars less gains that they took. And there is pressure on a core business. Spreads on the interest products are about 15 million dollars of pressure in the quarter and the equity, the fees we earn on equity based products are down about 20 million dollars, offset by premium growth and reduced expenses about $10 million. So if you look at the Jeff FA business, it's up eight percent in the quarter. 

 If you look at ERC we lost 156 million. And again if you compare that to last year's 9/11 charge, it's 73 million better than it was in 2001. So in insurance for the fourth quarter we continue to see growth in the consumer annuity and insurance products and Jeff FA. ERC will remain tough. As we said we have that at the lower earnings end the range as we said a couple weeks ago. The earnings overall will be up five percent XERC and down 25 percent, including ERC with about 140 million loss anticipated in the fourth quarter. 

 If you go to the next page, XERC, this is the same discussion I had a couple weeks ago. What is working in ERC as we're working on improving the margins. If you look we'll have a billion dollars of improved price this year from driving price of 600 million dollars and from improving terms and conditions. We're raising attachment points. We're lowering our aggregate risk we have a terrific investment portfolio. 22 billion dollars. No equities in that portfolio and strong bonds. We had completely rewritten this book. We've exited 40 percent of what we were writing in 2000, exiting nonstandard automatic [inaudible] property. We continue to strengthen the reserves in this business and continue to use the GE tools to run this business better with six signal digitization. 

 We continue have issues. The industry is being impacted by previous underwriting periods our losses are mirroring that industry experience. And we're taking an estimate of about 450 million loss for the total year. We built fourth quarter at the high end of that range as I said. So we're going to continue to run this business as well as we can going forward we're working every day on disciplines and improvements in underwriting risk management. We are reviewing our strategic options. And in the current planning process we're counting on break even 2003. 

 Let me go through a few operational areas in the company. First, if you look at the top left on third quarter year-to-date we have increased our return on total capital up 27 and a half percent. Our operating margin grew to 19 and a half percent. The up five basis points is up 50 basis points is very strong. On the bottom left we continue to drive deflation in our sourcing operations all around the world. 

 We continue to drive digitization by lowering our process costs and we'll have in total third quarter a billion five pretax savings from those two efforts. And on the right side cash flow from operating activities up 16 percent as we said very strong performance. We've given back seven billion to shareholders with a dividend in the buy back year-to-date. The yield is over three percent today we're continuing to reinvestment in the company with 9.Six in industrial acquisitions and plant equipment. A continued focus on cost management and cash management across the operations. If you look at the GE capital portfolio, one of the indicators we're constantly monitoring is delinquency around the world. 

 This chart is one we use all the time. 30 plus days past due on the equipment side. The commercial finance side up top 78 billion dollars in receivals (ph) outstanding. You can see that deliquencies 70 billion dollars in outstanding, delinquencies also stable 5.27 percent. Our nonreduced earning assets are 3.8 billion or down in quarter from the second quarter 135 millions Rightoffs 885 million dollars are 1.2 percent of Annie down, six basis points the second quarter. Allowance for losses at 5.1 billion, 2.6 percent of the financing receivables, consistent with the portfolio of quality in the mix today and we continue to just have a rigorous focus on risk management we've got over 3,000 risk managers. 

 We have an intense collections focus with over 7,800 collectors and we're all over this PRFL every day and we've been able to manage this and we're pretty pleased with the results today to have the delinquencies where they are in the portfolio quality where it is. 

 Next is an update on funding. This is similar to what we said a couple weeks ago as I mentioned. We're planning on doing between 85 and 90 billion dollars of long-term debt this year we completed 74 billion dollars. Our estimate today would be at the low end of this range for what we're going to need. We have the commercial paper in the 25 to 35 percent range target. We're at 31 percent today. We have a little flexibility on commercial paper and if you look at 2003, we have about 30 billion dollars of long-term debt that matures in 2003 that we'll need to refund. And then the question is how much growth on top of that do we need to do if we did about 30 billion dollars of growth we'd need to do 60 billion dollars of long-term debt next year which is about two-thirds of what we did this year. 

 We'll file a shelf of 50 billion dollars as we said a couple weeks ago and that shelf will allow us the capacity and flexibility to do what we need to do through at least the first half of next year. So we've had a very successful program here. We've got strong demand from our commercial paper investors and our investors. We've got back up of CP. And he the cost we've incurred is right in line with the estimate. We have terrific progress on fund and we're in great shape there. Just a look at our growth initiatives. 

 On the left side are services. This is a huge priority for us in the company with our long cycle market shares and our businesses. We have rolling year sales Vs of strong double digits in medical, power and transportation as we grow the services business. And even including the impact from aircraft engines, which is a little slower on the service side you can see the rolling Vs seven percent in the third quarter and our contractual service agreements, long-term service commitments where we lock in with a customer, provide them benefits and assure ourselves an annuity on our service fleet, the backlog is back up to 66 billion dollars the CSAs are secure in our long-term growth O the right side, technology is foundation for our growth. 

 Our new product continued to lead orders on medical across the entire product line. We're investing through the cycle in both aircraft engines and PowerSystems. You look at the GE 90 having terrific test results and our regional jet engines are all in great shape and the H turbine is going to start up in the fourth quarter at bang lamb bay we continue to add technology through acquisitions as well to upgrade the technology and the margin rates in our portfolio and the industrial and the power side. So we're continuing to invest here for long-term leadership. And business development. This is a real priority for us. I think you can see on the left side about 18 months ago we laid out a business development strategy that said priorities are to extend the platforms in medical. 

 To continue to grow consumer commercial and financial services. To extend our positions in power and aircraft engines, to grow our entertainment portfolio and to increase the technology capacity in our industrial business and our materials business. If you look at the acquisitions we've completed to date, we've completed 43 acquisitions. You can see we've spent eight and a half billion dollars on the industrial side. We'll get 2.7 billion of revenue growing 4.8 billion next year, and very solid income contributions. Both the industrial side and the capital side. And the pipeline is full. It's rich. Just taking our top ten targets for the businesses list here medical power and engines and NBC over 70 billion dollars of revenue. Over 700 million dollars in operating profit. This business development strategy remains intact. We've got a very defined strategy. We've got a very disciplined financial screen we follow and we're continuing to execute very successfully here. Let me turn it back over to Jeff to cover what we're doing with the portfolio. 

 JEFF IMMELT: Thanks, Keith. You know in May at the EPGI laid out a very disciplined strategic road map to enhance a great set of living businesses. I want to give you an update and report card on what we're doing there. Again, about the function of the company is totally in the strike zone. This is a great set of financial businesses that are true leaders. They tend to have what we like in a set of businesses, with market leadership, a great technical foundation, global skill, they own the customer interface and have multiple ways to make money. Some of these businesses have service franchises in this area, about half the revenue. 

 At these businesses we've increased the investment in technology. We've done more than 20 acquisitions to add platforms and new growth. We're expanding aggressively in Europe and China and these are just great businesses that can expand through the cycles. About 15 percent of the company is going through a repositioning process. 

 We're growing -- the service business and transportation, this is a great business. It's one we want to make bigger, and we are adding to the service capability there. We're changing the face of our industrial business. We're adding to the security and censor segments to really make this a higher tech service and technology operation. We did he emphasis sized the commodity pieces of equipment management. You haven't seen any asset growth in those segments this year. And we're reviewing the segments in our financial assurance and insurance business, really with a focus on return on equity and distribution strength. 

 Now about 10 percent of the company will be run to maximize cash flow while reviewing our options you've read about us combining our consumer business. This will generate about 50 million dollars of savings. It's going to give us distribution synergies and improve our new product development process. And clearly today neither ERC nor equity as they exist today are generating acceptable returns to us. 

 We're taking, making tough calls, exiting business lines and restoring to profitability there. We have a dynamic agenda to improve this company each day. We're creating leadership businesses where we are the true domain and market experts. I think in addition we're making organizational moves like creating the core financial service operations to improve visibility and operational speed. But the sense I want to give you is that this is a dynamic picture. Not a static picture. It's one we're driving with intensity and we'll continue to change. Now what I want to do is just give you kind of a sense of the major factors in 2003. 

 Again, I just want to give you perspective and go back to the five factors in the worksheet we discussed in May. I hate to do this before completing our business plan but in this period of volatility, I just feel it's important to give you our current thinking. Really based on the world we see today. And the five factors that we're managing, first is the (inaudible) PowerSystems. The environment is tougher than what we saw in May. We're building our plan around 125 Greenville gas turbines while we still have orders for more than 170. The balance of the PowerSystems business is in great shape. We'll grow 20 percent and remains on track. Our service business, our oil and gas business, the wind business, we acquire all are doing extremely well we're implementing a very tough restructuring plan and this business is being managed through this cycle in just unbelievable shape and will have probably ten times the installed base for our service business going forward. 

 But the impact of fewer gas tour BIEN shipments will be felt in 2003. From a short cycle standpoint, just to a continuation of the current trends will still produce good short cycle growth in 2003. We think the pricing is tough but it's stabilized and we're going to implement very strong cost outplans in these businesses. The new businesses that we've acquired or the new businesses we're entering and censors and security and water treatment are all growing ahead of plan. And even at a very tough environment, our short cycle businesses will experience good growth in 2003. 

 From a long cycle execution standpoint, the commercial aviation market is tougher than May. However we've been implementing cost out actions in this business for more than two years. Our gains in the installed base market share and new technology will really protect our service business. And the military business continues to grow in strong double digits. We have an unbelievable leadership team in engines and we think in any environment for the aviation business this situation is manageable. The medical business and the transportation business should continue to grow at historical averages and so we'll get growth out of these other long cycle business. We'll get continued execution capital. We've driven good asset growth and strong risk management through this cycle. We've outlined the issues in ERC and equity. But otherwise we have a great array of businesses and industries we understand. And we should see earnings growth consistent in GE capital with historical averages. 

 Lastly, we talked about execution on industrial acquisitions. Our work in 2003 has generated 260 million dollars of 2002 net income and will generate on that same basis 420 million in 2003. We have a very strong pipeline and as Keith told you our top ten targets will generate several hundred million dollars of net income for next year. So the sum of these five factors creates a foundation for solid growth in 2003. We begin a disciplined planning process called S 2 in November. And this is the foundation for our operating plan which will present to you by year-end. Again, I want you to keep in time, G is a company of operating managers who knows how to get the best out of each one of our businesses through every economic cycle. That's what we do. 

 Now, in conclusion, I think what we really want to do is have you see the totality of the company versus just the pieces. 2002 I believe is a pretty persuasive case for GE in a tough economy we're delivering and at the same time we're focused on making the company better every day. By enhancing our businesses, by accelerating our growth initiatives and by continuing our operating disciplines. Now I'd be happy to open it up for questions and rich let me turn it back to you. 

 RICHARD WACKER: Nicole, if you can give the instructions and start to take the call. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wish to ask a question, please press star one on your touch tone telephone. If your question has been answered or you with issue to withdraw your question please press star two. Out of courtesy for all participants please limit your question to one question and one follow-up. Our first question is from John McDoogal (ph) from JP Morgan. 

 John McDoogal (ph): Good morning, everyone. Thank you for the call. The question I would have would be first on power. If you could give us a breakdown of where the business stands by its different sub-components, what service now. What's nuclear, what's oil and gas NOE. 

 KEITH STERN, GENERAL ELECTRIC, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER OF INVESTOR COMMUNICATIONS: We'll have to have Rich get you that level of detail. If you look, as I said, in the third quarter we had a terrific performance in the rest of that business. Services were up incredible double digit. Just go back to it. The revenues were up over 20. Operating margin was up over 60. They grew their earnings by about 170 million dollars in the quarter in the services business. The oil and gas business was up over 70 percent, grew their earnings by over 45 million dollars, operating margin in the quarter. So we'll get you the pieces across all the segments if you want. But those are the major factors that are driving the profitability today, the growth in the third quarter. 

 John McDoogal (ph): Okay. And then the next question is on G-Cast I think you guys are running a little bit ahead of plan that we were expecting, and I think you had laid out a few months ago. In light of the environment right now, I was wondering if you could perhaps give us a little more color on that performance. 

 KEITH STERN: Yeah. We feel pretty good where G-Cast is. We have a biweekly operating reviews on KAISHTH and G-Cast is in on that. If you look at where they were operating today, we think they're going to be pretty close to flat for the year. We've had good core growth in the business. We placed 38 aircraft during the quarter. We only have 13 aircraft on the ground. Exposure is less than 100 million dollars. So Henry hunch man and the team continue to do a good job. It's very dynamic. We're managing it very well. We've got great distribution to take planes out of places and replace them in other parts of the world. And it's an environment obviously that we're managing carefully but we feel great about the performance. 

 John McDoogal (ph): One final quick question. Keith, on the contribution of acquisitions next year, you talked about 420 million, I think. Could you let me know if that is net of financing costs where the business is flat. 

 KEITH STERN: Yes, those numbers would be.. 

 John McDoogal (ph): Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Michael Reagan (ph) of CSB. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Keith to focus on G-Cast again. The volume growth of 741 million, up 50 percent, looked a little odd in the quarter. Is that just because of what happened last year at the end of the third quarter or were there securitizations in G-Cast? 

 KEITH STERN: That's mostly a comparison to last year. We did sell a few planes in the quarter. I don't know the exact amount. About 20 aircraft at about 40 million dollars of gain, I guess. 

 Michael Reagan (ph): And then on your chart 18 you talked about the service, the rolling Vs for service. The top chart is excluding aircraft, and we're seeing the Vs decelerate. And that's despite the installed base growing. I'm just wondering how to apples to apples that. In other words, the economy is impacting this business. It feels like, because installed base is growing but the overall growth is decelerating. Can you explain what's going on there? 

 KEITH STERN: I'll have to break it down by business. I would say when you look at rolling 12 up above 17, it's still something we're feeling great about, Michael. We've had some fantastic orders in power. So when you look at the size of the orders we've got last year and the end of the year in the third quarter, we've got some tougher comparisons in terms of growing Vs at those rates. But anything up in these high double digits are going to be pretty strong for us and drive the profitability. 

 JEFF IMMELT: I would also say Michael the margin rate expansion across all these businesses continues to take place. 

 Michael Reagan (ph): So no issues right now, Jeff, on pricing? I mean the concern is that as customers, your airline, especially and power customers get squeezed, that they're looking to get some room within the contracts on service. 

 JEFF IMMELT: I think just the opposite, Mike. I'd say that pricing has stayed very attractive, particularly in power and engines and in medical, because of the value created in the customer. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Okay. Great. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. Your question, please. 

 BOB CORNELL: Actually, the first question on the aggregate of the 2003 numbers, you say in the headline that's May EPG. Are these changes from the numbers that were defined in the May EPG or are they numbers that are defined year-over-year at this point? 

 KEITH STERN: I think this chart was designed to go back BAK to the May EPG just as a reference point and then to create kind of some planning dialog, but I'm not going to really update these numbers until we go through our planning process. I just wanted to give you some texture from a standpoint of the planning horizon. 

 ))Keith Stern: Those were the two 2002 to 2003 changes that we talked about at EPG. 

 BOB CORNELL: In other words, EPG you were down half a billion in power, I think. And so should we add the half a million to the - 

 KEITH STERN: No. This was the EPG chart, I believe, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: I guess the other question I have to really follow on is on power, talking about power is down 10, 20 percent in the fourth quarter. I mean given the decline in shipments from 57 to 40. That would seem to imply more operating leverage than is in the 10 to 20 percent decline you're talking about. So what do you have pegged in there in terms of termination fees, and also are there restructuring benefits coming through at this point or do we have more restructuring to go? 

 KEITH STERN: Well, again let me start on the turbine comparison. And then I'll come to the restructuring point. We shipped 20 less turbines in the third quarter and you saw the operating profit of growth we had because of services in oil and gas. So in the fourth quarter we're going to be 25 to 30 less turbines so again we're going to be able to have the similar dynamics of services and oil and gas being able to provide growth, offsetting that turbine decline. For terminations through the third quarter year-to-date we're at about 470 million pretax and for restructuring in and out of power year-to-date we're probably around 200 million. And so right now in the fourth quarter we'd anticipate again the terminations we don't control those. The customers control those. We'd anticipate around 200 million dollars of pretax terminations in the fourth quarter. And we have about 100 million dollars of pretax restructuring just in the power business that will happen again in the fourth quarter. So those would be the dynamics that we're dealing with, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Dan Hushova (ph) of Deutsche Bank. 

 Dan Hushova (ph): Good morning. On one of the charts you have in your handout you have year-to-date savings from deflation at about 700 million dollars. I imagine a lot of that had to do with digitization or reverse auctions. Could you talk about what the expected savings on that front might be for next year. Are those savings accelerating and that kind of thing? 

 KEITH STERN: I just reviewed with our sourcing leaders last week, Dan, on deflation. And I would say these numbers are going to be substantially higher next year versus this year. Both from a standpoint of what digitization is going to drive but also from a standpoint of just what we expect to be a good opportunity to buy in an intelligent way next year. 

 Dan Hushova (ph): And would you say that -- are you 20 percent along in that process in terms of what you've defined that lend themselves towards the supply chain initiatives or how far along are you on that? I think we continue to find new great ways to generate savings for digitization. Some of our businesses have a hundred percent auctions on what they buy. It ranges throughout the company. But we're driving all of them to be close to 100 percent in terms of auctions. I would also say from an E mix statement the [inaudible] Initiative continues to drive great efficiencies across the company. And really allowing us to continue to cut costs. 

 DAN HUSHOVA: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Steven Hotson (ph) of JP Morgan. Your question. 

 Steven Hotson (ph): Good morning and good job executing in a tough environment. First, what would get you this share price, instead of taking out a percent or two of shares in repurchase combining that with acquisitions, if your company is of very good value? 

 KEITH STERN: When you look at our opportunities and our objectives around how we use our cash flow, there's really three areas that we're focused on. One is we obviously have a dividend we're paying to our shareholders. That's very important to us. And important to our investors. We do have a buy back program that has been very successful. And we also are using our cash to grow our company strategically and make investments in acquisitions that give us a stronger PRFL over the next 20 year. And so we're balancing those three strayed office we don't have one single target number where we say we're going to do A or B or C with the buy back or dividend. We're trying to make a balance between those three objectives. Right now the acquisition environment is pretty attractive and I would SMAINTing the dividend and driving the acquisitions to drive the growth of the company for the next 20 years are the key priorities. 

 STEVEN HOTSON: And then a quick thing on power service. Your press release said you got 12 long-term service agreements but sold 57. You've been saying that your YOET going hit rate on service agreements on long-term service on new shipments was very high. And this looks, am I reading this as 12 out of 57. 

 KEITH STERN: No, those wouldn't be connected. Again, the long-term service agreements come in as you do large orders with customers for 10 or 20 units, we'll cut a turbine, long-term contractual service agreement that will cover a fleet or a number of units at one time as opposed to each of the shipments during the quarter. So those wouldn't be connected. The majority of our delivered backlog is covered by those contractual service agreements. 

 STEVEN HOTSON: Great. Are you seeing any change in terms, customers demanding different pricing or delaying payments or changing terms on the service agreements as they're struggling? 

 KEITH STERN: I don't think there's anything systemic across the terms with the service agreements. Again, I think one of the things we try to demonstrate at the analyst meeting was the technology that goes into these service agreements and how they help benefit the customer operations. And I think those are still valued in the marketplace. 

 KEITH STERN: And as Rick said at the meeting, in September that we hadn't had any changes to the agreements. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Martin Sacci of Goldman Sachs. Your question, please. 

 Martin Sacci (ph): Hi Keith and everybody. This is Martin Sacci from Goldman Sachs. While I'm not generally a nitpicker, but in this case in plastics it's such an important barometer. When you go back to the September 26 presentation, the pricing in the third quarter at plastics was estimated to be down nine percent and now you're saying five percent. And since pricing is such an important factor in plastics, could you explain what has changed in the plastics business, or just when things added up it just turned out to be different? 

 KEITH STERN: It's a great question, Martin. The pricing is down around -- we have a minor benefit from foreign exchange of about a point or and a half of two or a point of mix. At the end of the day I'm trying to show you volume to give you clean volume comparison to show you how the orders activity is going and give you a dollars comparison to show the net effect of both pure price and foreign exchange and mix. So you're absolutely right. What we said about pricing, it was about a point better than that. And the other two factors get you the five points. 

 MARTIN SACCI: Okay. And as a follow-up, could we talk about what the FX effects on sales and earnings were in the third quarter and what you see going forward? 

 KEITH STERN: I'll have to get you the FX on sales and earnings. On the supplemental schedule -- on the supplemental schedule that we put on the web site, Martin, you'll see foreign exchange is down about 19 million dollars in the quarter. So a pretty minor impact overall of the portfolio. On a net basis when you look at the whole company, a weaker dollar is a benefit for us as we are a net exporter. Both in Europe and in Asia. So we do benefit slightly from a weaker dollar. If you look at the where the rates are today it's not really a big impact for us going into the fourth quarter. 

 MARTIN SACCI: Okay. Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Jeffrey Spraug (ph) of Salomon Smith Barney. Your question, please. 

 Jeffrey Spraug (ph): Just a couple questions. I guess first on ERC, there's a lot of anxiety out there about whether or not you can really put this behind you in 2002 and have a better 2003 on just kind of a pay-as-you-go restructuring basis that you've been doing. Have you given any thought, do you have any comments on what it might take to really put that to bed, or do you think you in fact can get it put to bed in the fourth quarter? 

 KEITH STERN: Obviously it's a business that we're wrestling with. I mean we have to get the reserves right every quarter. We have to get our financial statements right every quarter, based on what the data is on claims and the act trailer impact of those claims. It strengthens the reserves in our second quarter and we had to strengthen in the third quarter. Our estimates today given the strength of price and the strength in improvements in terms and conditions are that we can continue to manage this business and on a forecasting basis going forward plan to not have any impact to investors by counting on break even. But it's something obviously that Bev to evaluate every quarter based on the data, based on the input we have. So it's something we've wrestled with. We hate what we've had to do in the second and third quarter. But we're going to deal with the impacts we have to every time based on what the data says. 

 Jeffrey Spraug (ph): Great. And then Jeff, could you give a little more commentary on how you think things will play out on the acquisition front? You had a burst of activity really in the half of this year and it's moderated a little bit. And obviously you can't control the timing of these things. But what I was wondering, is there kind of a modulated pace that you're really focused on achieving, these top ten targets or I guess kind of the current targets, we expect a consummation of that in the near term or is that more of a 2003 type of thing. Just some color on how we should expect things to play out there. 

 JEFF IMMELT: I think, Jeff, we've kept a pretty good pace. But we've also been a disciplined investor here. So we've got some tight screens we look at. I would say that we've got a good pipeline and one that as I said earlier in my comments you'll see some activity in the fourth quarter. But I think the most important thing is to do good deals and to stay on strategy and let them unfold over time. So I don't think we have any specific timing other than we want to stay on strategy and we want to do -- we want to be well positioned and do good deals for our investors. 

 JEFFREY SPRAUG: Just one final thing back to kind of details on G-Cast. You're doing these biweekly reviews. I'm wondering how frequently you're actually doing or are compelled to reevaluate residual values and that sort of thing. Does it happen as just kind of a rolling analysis or is it triggered by airplanes being pushed back and if you could give us any color on kind of the cushion, comfort level of where the portfolio is relative to the recent trend in airplane values. 

 JEFFREY SPRAUG: Sure. We have a pretty rigorous process. We have three different evaluations we use to come up with aircraft values. Those are updated a couple times a year. We have recently had those updated, including in the impact of all the current turmoil in the airline industry. So in the quarter we had about 35 million dollars of restructurings and write downs on some planes. It's about 70 million year-to-date. So again the portfolio is in very good shape in G-Cast, and it's something that we're constantly making sure we're on top of and we're keeping relevant estimates of what the values of those aircraft are. 

 JEFF IMMELT: Okay. Great. Thanks a lot. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Michael Bonianer (ph) of Trison Capital. 

 Michael Bonianer (ph): I was wondering if you could comment on the status of the refinancing of your commercial paper. I believe you referred to about 50 billion at the end of the second quarter. How much of that is refinanced and also if you could comment on the spread between your short-term borrowings and the commercial paper. 

 KEITH STERN: As I mentioned, we got that commercial paper down to 31 percent of our total. So we've had about 80 billion dollars. So we've had a very successful refinancing program. We've done, as I said, 74 billion dollars of long-term debt so far this year we'll probably need around 11 billion for the rest of the year. We've got a retail program we're implementing which will provide a broader base of investors. So it's going very well. In terms of spreads, everybody's corporate spreads have widened. If you look at each of the bond offerings we've done versus the broad bond indizzies that the market follows, our spreads have performed better than the aggregate market, but it's a pretty tough environment out there for corporate. And we're pleased with the where we are. We have great demand both for the commercial paper and the long-term debt. We've done about 16 billion dollars of reverse inquiries where investors come to us and ask us for our bonds. And so this program is going very well. We're actually ahead of schedule a little bit for the year and we think we'll only be at the low end of the range of what we need to do for the total year in terms of long-term debt. So it's going well. 

 MICHAEL BONIANER: Thank you. 

 KEITH STERN: You're welcome. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Steve McNeill (ph)of State Street. Your question, please. 

 Steve McNeill (ph): Good morning. I was wondering if you could help calibrate your expectations for ERC going into 2003 relative to sort of what actually has happened in 2002. And then maybe as a start to that, maybe walk us through what your expectations were going into 2002 and what has changed throughout the year and what we would expect incrementally next year. 

 Keith Stern (ph): Sure. Let me start with expectations for 2002. When we started the year we thought we were going to have this business earn a couple hundred million dollars. The pricing then the terms and conditions work that we were doing was in place. We have actually been able to achieve in 2002 about a billion dollars of pretax improvement in pricing through pricing and terms and conditions. 

 Total risk management focus we have an operating council where every single month we're working with Ron press man and his team his lead underwriters his distribution teams and his risk managers to go through what operations are and how do we continue to improve them. The issue that we've dealt with in 2002 has been adverse development for priority periods and when we get claims that come in and we look at the impact of those claims on the act trailer models. They come up with estimates for what we need for reserves we have to deal with that. So that's obviously put a lot of pressure on 2002. 

 We're going to have a net income loss of around 450 million dollars this year. So it would be about 650 million worse than we planned going into the year. When you look at that going forward, and you say what changes, I think the biggest changes is the continuation of the disciplines around pricing. There is not enough price that anyone could get in this industry based on the way the dynamics work on reinsurance. We're going to drive pricing hard. Ron and his team have that as an objective. 

 We'll continue to work on terms and conditions to improve our risk management. Improve where we take attachment points, lower our risk in terms of total aggregate cover, improve our retro session programs, and the combination of those factors driving improved margins as well as planning for some contingency for continued losses results in a current thinking that we'll at least be a break-even for 2003. So there's a lot of dynamics there. And a AI lot of forecasting we're dealing with. But I think that's our best look and a look that we're trying to have as people do their modeling for 2003, something that they can count on and it's an objective we have obviously, is forecastability and limiting volatility for investors and that's why we're kind of starting at zero for ERC for 2003. 

 Steve McNeill (ph):: Do you expect that there will be -- for you to to basically break even in 2003 R we going to see any charges coming out of ERC too? Do you expect that there will be -- for you to to basically break even in 2003 R we going to see any charges coming out of ERC to sort of help shore up the situation there? 

 Keith Stern (ph): Again, every quarter you have to look at your reserves based on the data on claims and the actual rarely results that come at and we've had that in the second and third quarter. It depends on what the data says going forward. We've had losses in the commercial business from auto, from professional liability and casualty liability business, national umbrella license and broker business, it's something that this is such a data driven process based on actual claims and act rare al estimates you have to go through the process. We do it every sing tell quarter. It's a hard market. Pricing is staying firm. We've exited a lot of the product lines and as Keith said we're going to keep getting price. Steve McNiell (ph): Thank you.. 

 KEITH STERN: Let's take a couple more questions. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mike Holton (ph) of T-Bird Price. 

 Mike Holton (ph): Two questions on GE capital. How much has acquisitions added to net income in this quarter and the second question you had nice asset growth from the second quarter to the third quarter and yet the reserve allowance went down on an absolute basis. Could you talk a little bit about that? 

 KEITH STERN: Sure, first in terms of income, it is about 80 million dollars, net income from acquisitions in the quarter, in capital. Principally again helller was the biggest driver but AGC is performing have well. Security capital is performing very well. That would be the main acquisitions. The second question is about the provision? 

 Mike Holton (ph): About the reserve allowance. 

 KEITH STERN: If you take a look at the page that we put out on delinquency, we talked about where we are on write offs. Again, you can see one nonearning assets have come down 135 million dollars. Two, the write offs were up, which helped to clean out the portfolio. And three, the third quarter provision was actually up 70 million dollars in getting to that allowance of 5.1 billion dollars. So the allowance and the total provision is determined based on the current portfolio that's on the books. It's based on the mix. It's based on the portfolio quality and the delinquency and the specific items that are in there. So that reserve has fluctuated as you know over time and this is right in the historical range of where we keep that allowance level. 

 MIKE HOLTON: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question is from Grant Taknack (ph) of Taknack KA Capital. 

 Grant Taknack (ph): I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about what I think most owners or many analysts are concerned about is sensitivity to the economy, the proceed cyclic. If GDP were to be one percent lower have you done the analysis of what it might do to the revenues and earnings and offsetting that, if you could just sort of highlight the three or four biggest positive swings. Obviously DP were to be one percent lower have you done the analysis of what it might do to the revenues and earnings and offsetting that, if you could just sort of highlight the three or four biggest positive swings. Obviously ERC is a potential plus few hundred million. You've got your digitization, et cetera. Offsetting these cyclical questions. 

 KEITH STERN: Again what I would say we're planning our 2003 at an economic level that would be below what may be would be forecast. We're counting on relatively slow economic growth. And most of the expansion is going to be based on costs coming out and pretty favorable comparisons versus this year. So I'd say we're already counting on extremely low economic growth and I wouldn't know how to give you a dynamic other than that. Grant Taknack (ph): What GDP assumption are you using for next year? 

 KEITH STERN: About two. 

 Grant Taknack (ph): About two percent. 

 KEITH STERN: Yeah. So I think that's -- we're kind of planning based on what we see today. 

 Grant Taknack (ph): Great. Thank you. That's conservative. Thanks. 

 KEITH STERN: Nicole, let's take one more. 

 OPERATOR: Now we have time for one more question. Our final question is from (Inaudible) of Bear Stearns. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Do I push 1? 

 OPERATOR: You're on. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Yesterday MONT pillier went public staying at a 20 percent premium. I don't understand how GE can't get the reinsurance business right. 

 KEITH STERN: Is that a question? 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARTICIPANT: Yes. 

 KEITH STERN: I think you've got to look at the historical book. I think if you look at what we're writing today we love it. If you look at the disciplines and we have and the risk management and ROEs we're targeting it's very good. But the unfortunate thing with reinsurance is you live with what you wrote several years ago. And we just have to deal with those consequences. So when you say can you get it right I think we are today. 

 KEITH STERN: I would say everybody in the industry, of course reassurance looks as good as anybody in the industry given 20 to 25 year time horizon. And so that's, as Keith said we deal with what we deal with. And on a go forward basis the business is good the business we write is good and that's where we are. 

 UNIDENTIFIED PARITICIPANT: : Okay. 

 KEITH STERN: Thanks I appreciate everybody listening in on the call. Again we think the company is doing a good job of delivering in a volatile and difficult economy and we're making a lot of the moves that improve the company every day. So we appreciate your attention and, Rich, I'll turn it back over to you. 

 RICHARD WACKER: So the materials that we have again are available on the site at www.ge.comforward/investor the replay of the system will be available early this afternoon and as always Joanna Morris and I are available for follow-up questions and discussion on any items that we weren't able to get to during the call. Thanks very much and we'll speak to you. 

 OPERATOR: This concludes your conference call. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect. Goodbye. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyab002xx
  


 HD
 Q2  2002  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
13,034 words
   PD
12 July 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: My name is David, and I will be your conference facilitator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the General Electric conference call on second quarter earnings. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask any question during this time, simply press star then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press star then the number 2. Thank you. Mr. Wacker, you may begin your conference. 

   TD
 RICH WACKER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thank you, David. Welcome, everyone. Joanna, Morris, and I want to welcome you to the second quarter earnings conference call. You have the press release from earlier this morning. The -- we -- during this presentation we'll be walking through some additional materials which are available on the website and are being streamed to you at www.ge.com/investor. Those slides are also available for you to download and print if you want to follow along and take notes. You can do that if you don't see it refresh your browser, and you will see two files there available for you to download. As always, elements of this presentation are forward-looking and are based on our best view of the world and our businesses as we see them today. Those elements can change as the world changes, so please interpret them in that light. Our agenda will be covering second quarter performance, a great result for the company; our outlook for the third quarter, and the rest of the year; and as David mentioned we will take Q & A after we cover that. To cover this we have Jeff Immelt our chairman and CEO, and Keith Sherin our Chief Financial Officer here. And so without further ado, let me turn it over to Jeff. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT, CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Rich. And good morning. Keith and I want to review the highlights of GE's second quarter performance and give you a view on what we see for the third quarter. First, some highlights from the second quarter. I believe our revenue is actually strong in this environment, especially when you break it into the pieces. Our industrial business revenue growth was 10%, and while Power Systems led the way, we had strong revenue growth from medical, NBC appliances and special materials. Our plastics business has the first positive quarter in some time. In GE in particular, when you look at net revenue, which we think is the most important metric, which is revenues less interest cost from financing and operating activities grew 12%. Earnings growth was broad based. Power Systems, medical, appliances, and NBC had double-digit growth. We had 8 capital businesses with double-digit growth led by consumer finance, commercial equipment finance, and commercial finance. As expected, as we have said, our short-cycle businesses are improving. Our June orders were up 12%. The orders strength was broad based. I have always felt that plastics was GE's best leading indicator of the economy. Core volume in plastics grew 25 percent in the quarter. Some of that was clearly inventory build, but the growth was consistent with past recoveries. We are making significant progress on GE Capital's funding plan. Our commercial paper is now 33% of total debt. We have added $21 billion of back lines for a total of $55 billion. Our costs are in line with expectations. And we remain a solid AAA. Our high margin service businesses grew by 17%, ex-aircraft engines, and 7% overall. Our service operating profit grew in double digits. Medical growth is 17% and power growth was 21% and with an 80 billion backlog, service will be a driver for GE profits going forward. 

 We continue to execute on a disciplined business development strategy. On the industrial side we said we would target high-tech, high margin opportunities where GE capabilities could drive significant growth in investor returns. In the acquisition of Interlogics, [Telemundo and] [INAUDIBLE], GE Wind, and Unison will add a few points of growth. And on the capital side we are adding portfolios to our specialty consumer and midmarket segments, and the pending sale of GXS is consistent with our desire to exit businesses we don't think we can grow. So to sum up our results reflect the performance of a great set of businesses. Our long-cycle businesses continue to perform. Our short-cycle businesses are gaining momentum. And GE Capital XERC is performing well. We feel good about the second quarter at 44 cents, and as we look at the third quarter we see excellent short cycle momentum, a very strong pipeline of new products and services across GE, and easier comparisons. We're on track for the year, and keith will review the results in more detail. So Keith,? 

 KEITH SHERIN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Thanks, Jeff. I'm going to jump right into the second quarter results. You can see our revenues were 33.2 billion, up 4%. If you need to look at the revenues based on the split between industrial and capital, you can see the revenues on the industrial side were up very strongly, 19 1/2 billion dollars, 10% growth. I'll show you a little more detail on that in a few slides. If you look at [INAUDIBLE] revenues, reported were 13.9 billion or down 4%, but as Jeff mentioned, the most important indicators, what's our net revenues, what's our contributive value which is defined our revenue less our interest expense. And the impact of declining interest rates has depressed the top line gross revenue, but when you take out the interest costs you can that our contributive value, net revenues on the financing and operating businesses were up strongly double-digit at 12%, which gives us a lot of margin to improve our profitability in GE Capital. Net earnings of 4.4 billion up 14% as we said, and EPS of 44 cents. And we had a very strong cash flow performance through the half. We have had $6.1 billion of cash flow from operating activities ex-progress which is up 12% and I'll show you the details of that. So return on total capital over 27%, the business model and the highlights Jeff talked about really gave us a great quarter in a pretty toughen environment. 

 In addition to the strong business results that Jeff covered, we had four second quarter events that I went through two weeks ago, and I don't have any new information on them, but I'll just give you a little recap here. First, during the second quarter we had an IRS settlement for $358 million of after-tax benefits in the quarter. This settlement covers engine export tax benefits that we get for the period 1979 through 2000, so a 21-year period settlement. In the fall last year, we won a case in the second circuit in federal court which covered 1979 and 1980, and then during the second quarter we concluded negotiations with the IRS to get a settlement for the entire period, and that's why we had the benefit. This obviously drives the industrial tax rate lower, and I'll give you more on details on the industrial tax rate in a few charts. 

 The second item is that ERC recorded 236 million of losses in the quarter. During the second quarter, we completed an actuarial update and other reviews which resulted in adjusting prior year estimates by $350 million, which obviously more than offset the 114 million of operating improvement we are getting from better pricing and risk management and new disciplines we have put into that business. So as a result of those losses we have had to adjust our total year forecast. Previously we said that ERC was going to make about $200 million for the total year, and with these losses in the quarter, we are saying that ERC will be about break even. 

 The third item is the Worldcom bond loss of $110 million. We had 209 million of par value of Worldcom bonds in our insurance portfolio. We have written those down to about 20 cents on the dollar. We'll obviously have to see where those go, but we think we have a very prudent financial position right now on that bond. And finally, during the quarter, we did have some Power Systems terminations which resulted in an after-tax benefit of $70 million. And we delivered the 44 cents, including the several positive and negative developments. 

 The next page is really a look to provide the details of how GE grew its earnings in the quarter. We start with last year at the top with 3897 of earnings in the second quarter 2001. And then you can see the elements that bring you down to this year's second quarter reported earnings 4.426, up 14%. You can see the positives we had from very strong volume up 12%. Also, very strong productivity up 1.7% principally driven by the benefits we get from digitization and continued reductions in head count. And then we had those benefits were partially offset by price, which was down about 1.8 points and inflation, which was down $68 million of decrease in earnings year over year. GE Capital, I'm going to cover in a minute, grew $93 million, excluding ERC. And we did have a sum contribution from industrial acquisitions of $47 million in the quarter. The largest of those were Bets, Interlogics had more than $10 million and nothing else was over 10, so we had some contribution -- about 6% of our industrial earnings growth -- 7% of our industrial earnings growth came from acquisitions in the quarter. 

 And then finally down the bottom, $59 million of other, I have broken that out on the right side to just so some of the pieces that I covered on the previous page. First, not amortizing goodwill in 2002 gives us a benefit of $266 million. We have lowered our pension earnings assumptions for 2002, which results in a lower pension earnings contribution of 89 million after tax. Just to give you the pension numbers, in 2001, we had 339 million benefit after tax from pension. In 2002 in the second quarter we had 250 million benefit from pension. Then you see the ERC number which year-over-year is $376 million decline, and the tax benefit of 331 million which is principally the settlement with aircraft engines that I talked about. So earnings of 14% and the earnings growth is clearly driven by the volume growth and the productivity benefits we got across the company. 

 Next page is on cash flow. We had very strong cash flow from operating activities for the first half. If you start with the cash beginning balance at the beginning of the year $10.4 billion, this walk takes you through operating activities, investing activities and financing activities and shows you that we ended the cash -- ended second quarter with a cash balance of $1.7 billion. You can see we had very strong cash flow from operating activities [INAUDIBLE] at $6.1 billion, up 700 million, or up 12%. We returned $4.7 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. We invested $8 1/2 billion in the company with acquisitions and P&E, plant and equipment, and our priorities collections declined by $2.6 billion, as we said, right in line with what we have been forecasting all year. The cash flow from operating activities is very strong and in line with what we had planned for 2002. 

 Now let me shift a little bit and go into the business performance for the quarter. This is a summary for the industrial businesses on the left side, you can see our revenue. Very strong revenue growth of 10%, total revenues to $19 and a half billion, driven on the long-cycle side by Power Systems and medical, the total long-cycle revenues were up 14. And you can also see that we had positive revenue growth in the short cycle, up 4% in the quarter. As the first quarter in six quarters we have had a positive revenue growth in the short cycle. And over on the right side is operating profit. You can see total operating profit for the industrial businesses was up 20%. Again, it's driven by the strength in the long cycle, up 37%. I'll show you some of the segments there. And the short-cycle earnings were down 8% in the quarter, previously we said they would be around down 10, but a couple of points I had summarized on first the long cycle is on plan; both at the half, and we do see it continuing to be on plan for the rest of the year. The short cycle, we are very encouraged by the revenue growth. You can see that it's up 14 points, versus first quarter when it was down 10%. And the short cycle operating profit growth improved 15 points versus the first quarter, so the sequential improvement that we expected to see in the short cycle is occurring and we'll continue to see that trend as we get into the third quarter. 

 Just a couple of long cycle highlights here. We put out the schedules with all 26 businesses revenues and operating profit or earnings growth. Here you can see Power Systems and medical. We just had another fantastic quarter in Power Systems. Revenue was up 27%. Operating profit up 66%. We had 86 large gas turbines out at Greenville delivered in the second quarter, which puts us at 155 year-to-date. We continue to grow our service business. We had 25 new long-term service agreements, worth a billion one. And we did have 70 million of termination benefits in the quarter, but very strong performance up over 50% even without the terminations in the power business. On the right side, medical business had a great quarter. You can see revenue and our profit both up 13%. We had tremendous orders globally, equipment orders up 18. Ultrasound was up 19. Our 16-slice CT has had a very good reception in the marketplace with over 50 global orders, and healthcare services revenue was up over 17, so a very strong quarter for medical and puts us in great shape as we look to the second half. 

 A couple of short cycle highlights: plastics. You can see the revenue was up 4%. As I said, the out profit was still down; it was down 18 percent, but look at the dramatic improvement: We have, sequentially, it was down 39% in the first quarter. We had very strong sales volume, up 15%. We built our backlog in the second quarter. It's up 9%; last year at this time we were still having a decline in the backlog, and the pricing is still around 9% but we are showing sequential improvement as well through the second quarter and into the third quarter. Over on the right you can see NBC results. We had a great quarter at NBC. Revenue up 9, our profit up 11. You know, the performance in the marketplace has been tremendous. Obviously, winning the sweeps again, the ninth consecutive time, great ratings across all the parts of the programming. [Telemundo] and KNTV both closed in the quarter; we are really excited about what those do for us. And we have had great pricing performance with the prime up front up 7, which is really terrific for us for 2002 in the fourth quarter and 2003. And the second quarter scatter was up 7 percent above the up front, which gives us a nice lift here in these results. So, these are two businesses that are important to us for gaining momentum as we go int0 the second half, and they are on track. 

 The next page is the same earnings variance walk where I'll show you how GE Capital's earnings changed year-over-year. You look at Q2 2001 they made $1.477 billion of earnings. And the reported Q2 2002 is 1.327, down 10%. If you look at the pieces, obviously we are not amortizing goodwill. That's an increase. ERC is down year-over-year. They made about 140 million last year in the second quarter, obviously this year with the losses of 236 is a $376 million decline year-over-year. We had lower gains in securitizations to the sum of $284 million. I tried to split that out on the right side. The Worldcom losses are included in there, 110 million after tax. We had other lower gains, principally in the insurance portfolios and the bond portfolios of $119 million year-over-year. And we had lower securitization of 55 million after tax. Last year, the benefits we got from securitization were about 132 million net income. And this year, in the second quarter, the benefits from securitization were about 77 million net income. 

 The tax rate: on a reported basis the tax rate's down to 12.2%, and the actual numbers -- You have got to take out the impact of the Worldcom bond losses and the ERC losses. Excluding those the tax rate is at 18.9, versus 20.6. It's down slightly, and gives us a $40 million benefit from last year. Core growth was very strong in the quarter; it's principally cost out in productivity. And acquisitions had a very strong contribution for us in the quarter, $168 million. As you know, we had a tremendous year last year with acquisitions, and those acquisitions are performing as expected. The contributors there would include Heller, Franchise Corp, I-Group, Safe Co. are some of the larger ones. So, "X" goodwill and "X" ERC Worldcom, the earnings for the rest of GE Capital are up 14 percent, which is in line with what we expected. We are just -- we are tremendously disappointed, obviously about the losses in ERC the Worldcom bonds, and it's just things we had to deal with, but we're pretty pleased with the sustained core growth and the benefits we're getting from our acquisitions in GE Capital. The real power-driver behind the earnings of GE Capital is asset growth, and you can see in the quarter, we're up to $460.6 billion of assets, up 22%. This is a tremendous position for us to give us earnings growth in the future, and you can see there for all the different segments here, we have double-digit growth. So, we're really looking forward to continued earnings growth in GE Capital as you get into the third and fourth quarter, based on our asset growth we've already put on the books. 

 Just a couple of business segments in GE Capital. First is global consumer finance. We had great asset growth, up 33%. This is principally driven by 21% growth in core assets. We also had some acquisition assets we added. Net revenue up 11, and net income up 33. Very strong asset growth, good productivity, and delinquencies are stable delivering these tremendous results in our global finance business. 

 On the right side, the commercial equipment finance business in the mid-market segment also had tremendous asset growth. Net revenues were up 31%, net income up 39%. The income growth here is split; it's 50/50 between core growth and acquisition contributions, including franchise finance and Heller. We did add $3 1/2 billion of assets in the quarter, including the AGC acquisition in Australia and some assets from [INAUDIBLE]. Delinquencies here are 1.8%, they're up 10 basis points, which is pretty good in a difficult commercial environment, so very strong performance in the commercial equipment finance business. 

 Next segment I talk about business would be commercial finance. Again, tremendous performance. Assets up 54%, a lot of that's driven by, obviously, the Heller acquisition, also Melon. Net revenue up 64 percent, net income up 50%. This segment's having a great year; we're having great business. We do have non-earning assets and losses up in this environment, while we're also having tremendous operating improvement performance. But this business has positioned at a little over 50 plus earnings growth in the year 2002. And on the right side, we thought we'd give an update on G-casts, or Aviation Services business. We have had an increase in assets that's up very strong --up 42%. Net revenues up 14%, and earnings are down 25%, principally because we don't have a repeat of some asset sales that we did in the second quarter last year that contributed about $55 million of earnings. The net income excluding those asset sales is up about 25%. Year to date, we have done about $4 billion of volume, so we got very strong volume in the G-Cast business. And since September 11th, we have had over 70 aircraft that we've had returned from customers around the world. And we have been able to re-deploy those. We only have 11 aircraft on the ground as of the end of June. And this business in total is on track to be in line with what we have previously set down, about 5% for the total year. Very difficult core growth in a difficult environment doing a lot to work with our customers. 

 Next is a chart we always show to talk about the asset quality in GE Capital. Basically, if you look at the 30-plus days past due for both the equipment financing and the consumer receivables that we have, the delinquencies are flat. We are really pleased with that performance. The allowance for losses was at 2.74% of our financing receivables basically flat with the first quarter. Write offs were $896 million in the quarter, principally driven by bankruptcies. Non and reduced-earning assets were up slightly, up about $115 million in the quarter. We have 132% reserve coverage, obviously, on these non-earning assets and we have great risk management. This is a very diverse portfolio. Our lending is principally asset based. We have over 3,000 risk managers; we added 1,000 collectors in the last year, and our underwriting and collections focus is what's allowing to us keep our delinquency relatively flat here. 

 Next is an update on liquidity. No change from what I said two weeks ago. We are in great shape here. You can see the left side is our debt composition. Out of $258 billion debt of GE Capital, we are down to 83 billion of commercial paper, 33%. We said earlier in the year we are going to have a target of 25 to 35%. We're already in that range. Since the beginning of the year, we have issued $58 million of long-term debt. We have done it around the world in different markets and tenors. We have had over $16 billion of reverse inquiries where investors come to us and ask to invest in our debt. Securities, we have done a good job of managing the floating spreads. The cost incrementally to us of this program is around $100 million this year pre-tax, which is very manageable, obviously, on an interest bill of $10 billion. We have added $21 billion of bank lines; we're up to $54 billion now in the bank lines. So, we have reduced the CP to the long-term range already. Which we feel great about. And we have completed approximately 2/3 of the year's long term needs. About 18 billion of long-term debt matures in the second half, and we'll have to refinance that so we'll do that probably in the late in the third quarter and early fourth quarter. And then we'll do additional growth depending upon how much asset growth we get, possibly 10 to $15 billion so we think we're well on our way here. We feel great about where we are in liquidity and the progress we made has been tremendous and well-received in the marketplace. 

 Now I'm going to shift gears and take a look at the third quarter. Our outlook for the third quarter is very strong. You can see some of the key operating profit driver highlights here. We are going to get tremendous short cycle improvement. You look at NBC, operating profit's going to be up 50 to 60%. I'll show you the pieces of that. Plastics is going to be up double-digit, both with strong volume and good cost management. Industrial systems will be up 5 to 10%. Specialty materials nearly doubles, principally from the contributions of best year born. Power Systems on the long cycle side will be flat in the third quarter; that will include self-funding restructuring. I'll show you some details of that. Medical systems, we expect a great third quarter up 15 to 20%, building on the second quarter order strength that we had, and GE Capital is going to be up 30 to 35%. Again, that includes comparisons to last year when we had our unusual charges related to the world trade center disaster, so it will be up double-digit excluding ERC, so medical capital short cycle momentum are all delivering the way we think for the third quarter. Let me take you through some of the pieces. 

 First is a more detailed look at plastics. The chart on the left is our average daily order volume in metric tons. You can see that the volume of these so the average daily orders for the first quarter were at 6300 tons a day. The volume fee was 18% on that. In the second quarter it went up to 6675 tons a day, it was 25% volume v. In the third quarter we are counting on good growth, but not as strong as the second quarter. So 6250 tons up 15 to 20% on volume. You can see that the pricing decline in the first quarter resulted in flat dollar orders. So the 18% volume resulted in flat dollar orders. In the second quarter, we had sequential price improvement, and the 25% volume resulted in 15% dollar orders, so down 10. And then in the third quarter, we'll be down somewhere zero to five on the pricing to result in 10 to 15% orders on dollars. And that turns into the numbers on the right side. Revenue up 10 to 15. And our profit up 10 to 15. We're really seeing strong volume driven by Asia-Pacific. Media and business equipment are really up over 30%. Which is as Jeff mentioned earlier, some inventory rebuild, but also some good economic activity. We are making progress with our price increases as you can see, as I said on the variances on the left, and this business continues to have great cost performance. So plastics is showing improvement consistent with previous recoveries, and we like where we're positioned as we enter the third quarter. 

 A couple more short cycle businesses for the third quarter. The left side is NBC. We are going to have a great quarter in the third quarter. Revenue up 25 to 30%. Operating profit up 50 to 60%. We are going to get some benefits from syndicating "Will and Grace". We are going to have Telemundo fully on board that contributes both in revenue and operating margin. We anticipate a higher volume. Again no comparison to 9/11 when we had several weeks without advertising last year. And the scatter pricing stays very strong. We got 14% scatter pricing versus the up front in the third quarter numbers, so this is going to be a great quarter. And on the right side specialty materials again, tremendous v's when you look at revenue up 60 to 70 and our profit up very strong. Bets dearborn is principally the factor here. It's going to almost double our operating profit growth. It's got solid business fundamentals. Everything about the acquisition is on track. And the silicones business, which is the core of specialty materials, is seeing orders up 10% versus the prior year, so continued momentum as we said in the short cycle businesses in the third quarter. 

 Here's a little bit about the long cycle in the third quarter. On the left side is Power Systems, revenue will be up 5 to 10. Operating profit will be about flat. Services revenue is going to be up strongly, about 35%. And the way we have the quarter planned right now is we estimate that the terminations we are going to have in the third quarter are going to be more than offset by restructuring. The profile today has about $40 million of pre-tax terminations and about $140 million of pre-tax restructuring. That's obviously all subject to change based on what customers do, but that's the profile we have and the plan we have right now. We are getting great global growth. Asia and Europe will both be up over 40%. And we plan to ship somewhere between 50 and 60 gas turbines out of Greenville in the quarter. 

 And then on the right side medical you can see the revenue in our profit v's are very strong. We expect the global equipment orders to continue at 15-plus percent, let by ultrasound, and MR, and X-rays, CT, double-digit. Our new product introduction momentum continues. We had a number of new product introductions we talked about yesterday with the customers and the press: 16 slice CTs going great, as I said, the excite MRI and the ultrasound logic shipments are strong. Healthcare services is very strong, as well. So the long cycle businesses are right on track to what we have said. 

 Let me shift to GE Capital for the third quarter. I already covered the asset growth. We expect that to be up over 20% in the quarter. Across all the segments, as we mentioned, we are going to have good results in the specialized financing real estate is going to be strong. With the addition of security capital. We are going to continue to get great growth in the midmarket and the consumer segments in the third quarter. Equipment management remains tough. It's a difficult environment, and we are working our way through it with the softness in the economy. And then specialty insurance as I said we are going to have favorable comparisons. Right now, we expect ERC to be around $50 million net income in the third quarter. 

 So here's a summary by quarter. Short cycle, long cycle, and capital. We have broken out the third quarter on this chart now, so you can see what we did in the first quarter, second quarter, what we expect in the third quarter, and then the total year estimates. Obviously on the left side and the short cycle you can see the sequential improvement. It's driven by the strength in NBC. It's driven by specialty. It's driven by plastics. Plus we also have the easier comparisons as last year declined all year long. Middle is long cycle. You can see the continued strong performance against tougher comparisons. So power still has a great third quarter, but you're comparing to really strong third quarter last year, medical is up double-digit, and engines continues to execute very well and we expect them to be on track for the total year to be about flat in our profit. And then right side GE Capital, we expect stronger revenues in the third quarter, both driven by -- there is not as much change year-over-year in interest rates, as well as we don't have the repeat of the World Trade Center impact on our revenues, and income will be up very strong. And then as I said if you exclude ERC, we'll be up double digits, so contributive value again revenue less our interest expense will be up double-digit in the third quarter and we are getting both core and organic growth. So when you put it all together down the bottom, the outlook is for a pretty strong third quarter. You can see revenue growth up 8 to 10. Income up 20 to 25. And as Jeff said earlier, we are comfortable with the current year total consensus, as well of $1.65 to $1.67. So let me turn it back over to Jeff for wrap-up. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Great, thanks, Keith. Just to wrap up, the second quarter earnings remain -- are strong and remain on track for the year. I think when you really look at the revenue and break it down into pieces, you are going to like a lot of what you see in the revenue growth, the industrial revenue up 10%. And short cycle improving as we expected. Capitals in good shape. We are disappointed by ERC, but the core of GE Capital is looking very strong. In the initiatives, primarily technology, services, customer [INAUDIBLE] and globalization are on track and making great progress. So record second quarter earnings. The third quarter outlook is revenue up 8 to 10 and earnings up 20 to 25. And I know you get sick of hearing us talk about consensus earnings, but -- [ Laughter ] -- we're still comfortable with consensus earnings of $1.65 to $1.67. With that, Rich, let me turn it back over and let's address some questions. 

 RICH WACKER: Great. David, if you could open up the phone lines and we'll start to take some questions. 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir. At this time, I would like to remind everyone if would you like to ask a question, press star, then the number one on your telephone keypad. And please limit yourself to one question and one follow-up. Your first question comes from Jeff Sprague of Salomon Smith Barney. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Good morning, everyone. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Jeff. How's it going? Maybe for Jeff and Keith -- Jeff, I was wondering first if you could give us a little color on what you think the acquisition pipeline looks like here for the second half to the year in rolling into '03, and maybe Keith also could just give a little bit of color. He gave the acquisition impact on the earnings. I was wondering on the industrial top line, if you could give us any color on that. Jeff, maybe I'll just start off with the acquisitions. But, you know, the pipeline remains pretty strong. I think what we have talked about at EPG was that we had a pipeline of between 5 and $10 billion that we were looking at, and the primary concentration was in our core businesses: medical, power, some of the materials businesses, and we continue to think that's an interesting and attractive way to grow, but not our only way to grow. So I think you'll continue to see us do some acquisitions that make sense for our strategic initiatives. 

 KEITH SHERIN: You know Jeff, in the quarter on acquisitions, really there were three acquisitions that contributed on the industrial side. Betz had about 165 million of revenue, Interlogics had about 160 million of revenue, and Telemundo had about 100 million of revenue. Our revenue number at total was up 10% on the industrial side. It's up about 5 1/2, 6% ex-acquisitions. [ Pause ] Is that okay? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yup. Next question. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Inch of Merrill Lynch. 

 JOHN INCH, MERRILL LYNCH: Hey, good morning. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, John. 

 JOHN INCH: Hi. Just a question on ERC. If -- and just thinking about the charge that was taken, I'm just wondering, we never did go into what the charge was for. Was it for asbestos or recent premiums written? And the question then really is: How does this -- I mean, how are your reserves on a relative basis, and are we going to have to take more charges in the future? 

 KEITH SHERIN: John, let me try and go back through it. There was nothing specifically in the ERC charge for asbestos. As we said, we had a actuarial update and other reviews during the quarter that we're constantly assessing our estimates in ERC. You know, the total reserves are around $13 billion in this business. So this change is not material relative to the total reserves. However, obviously, we're disappointed in them. The charges relate to property and casualty insurance in all of our business lines. As I said, at the call a couple -- as the meeting a couple of weeks ago, it's in our property and casualty reinsurance business in the U.S, It's in our broker lines, it's in our workers' comp. lines, it's in our European business, in our aviation and catastrophe lines. So it was -- there was no one specific driver. But there was across many of the product lines. And it's the result of updating our estimates in the reinsurance business which, you know, as you know, the industries had a pretty tough time with prior year loss development. ERC's experiences mirrored the industry. When we look forward, we think we have it right today. We think we have a business team that's obviously doing a great job with pricing, with underwriting an risk management. We're going to plan conservatively. We think we are going to benefit from the turnaround in ERC because of the strong pricing environment that we're operating in, and we're just going to have to obviously continue to update you as we get additional, actual, real updates. But right now we think we have it right, and we are counting on that team to deliver a turnaround. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Scott Davis of Morgan Stanley. 

 SCOTT DAVIS, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, guys. I have got a question relating to power, and I was wondering if you would comment on any price deflation in the quarter on new power orders and any price deflation on new service contracts. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, I'm going to have to take a look at what the price deflation is on new orders, Scott, and get back to you. I don't have a specific number for that right now. We'll have to get back to you. So I'll have Rich get back to you, okay? 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. 

 BOB CORNELL, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Good morning, everybody. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Bob. 

 BOB CORNELL: The just going back, you gave a good little detail on the third quarter, a long signing the perspective. But the earnings outlook there is now zero to five up. The previous guidance for the whole second half was up 5. So, you know, that sort of suggests the fourth quarter has to be a little bit better than five to make the numbers. Is that basically what we are looking at? And maybe how can that come to pass with aircraft engines, you know, medical and global exchange down, power, so forth? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Previously, we have been given that for the second half. So we -- I want to make sure I understand your question. In the third quarter right now, in the long cycle, we got revenue of 5 to 10 and our profit at zero to 5. Is that what you asked about, Bob? 

 BOB CORNELL: Are we cutting off -- 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: David, can you make sure -- can you repeat the instruction on how to continue with the follow-up? 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir, I certainly will. We would like everyone to limit themselves to one question and one follow-up. Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I'm sorry, but if -- to make sure that they can ask the follow-up? It feels like we are losing people after the first question 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir, will do. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Get Bob Cornell back on. [ Pause ] 

 OPERATOR: All right, sir. He has disconnected, sir. He'll need to press star 1. 

 KEITH SHERIN: I think this is pretty consistent with what we have been saying on the second half. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Exactly. In the third quarter, you know, we got zero to 5 and for the second half, through long cycle we have said the same thing. 

 KEITH SHERIN: And I think you got to remember, Bob that in the fourth quarter, aircraft engines in particular had a very difficult fourth quarter last year and will be positive versus the fourth quarter that they had last year. So, engines will have a strong fourth quarter, medical will have a strong fourth quarter. So the variance there ought to be very strong. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yes. Okay. Next question. 

 OPERATOR: Operator: the next question comes from Martin Sacci of Goldman Sachs. 

 MARTIN SACCI, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, Jeff. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Hi, Martin. 

 MARTIN SACCI: Back at the EPG, you noted 5 dynamics which I'll run through just to remind you that you have to manage for 2003 in order to achieve what you expect to achieve. These being: manage the short landing at Power Systems, achieve short cycle leverage, continue to execute in long cycle, continue to execute in capital, and execute on strategic acquisitions. From where you sit and as you start your planning process for 2003, how is it how is it shaping up? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: No, I'd say, Martin, you know, we are kind of in the middle of our S1's, which are kind of a look at the next three years. Power looks to be unfolding exactly as we had said it was going to unfold. We look like we're on track for 150 turbine shipments next year, and that's what we have planned for 2003. And the earnings that we have forecast in power look to be on track for what talked about at EPG. The short cycle, of course, gives you the at least visibility of all, but every trend we see both from a sales and cost standpoint would indicate that our short cycle earnings growth is exactly what we have talked about at EPG. The other long cycle businesses being aircraft engines, medical and transportation; medical is looks very strong. The engines business, I would say revenue past your miles are creeping up. But still remains, I think, tenuous. But our engines business because of cost control and the growth they are seeing in military and in services and the regional jet market, I think, looks like they are set for positive, you know, close to 10% earnings growth in '03. GE Capital again, I think, is having a great year on asset growth, has good cost control, and we believe it is in good shape for mid double-digit earnings growth in '03, as well. Lastly, on the acquisitions, the funnel is strong and my belief is that based on what I see both in the second half of this year and going into next year, we'll continue to execute in that range, as well. So, when I look at the five factors for '03 that we outlined in -- at EPG about 60 days ago, I don't see any reason to change any of them. 

 MARTIN SACCI: Okay. Thanks, Jeff. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Michael Reagan of Credit Suisse First Boston. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN, CSFB: Thank you, Jeff. Really two issues that are more macro. First, it seems that the global indicators, the macro indicators and the press want to believe that we're blowing into the possibility of a double dip and everything you guys have said across both short and even on long seems to imply that the year's playing out exactly as you thought. Is there any concern in your mind right now about how short cycles rebounding and this is just the normal recovery albeit as you expected slower than people maybe thought in the beginning of the year? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Michael, again, we are not economists here, so I can only talk about the world of GE. But I don't see anything that indicates a double dip activity. I have a 20-year experience personally in our plastics business, and that tends to be a leading indicator both down and up and this looks like pretty -- you know, like it's tracking pretty typically to what we have seen in the past resessions. The consumer delinquencies look to be in line, and the consumer spending and things like that seems to be holding. So Michael, I don't see any indications of that from the world of GE. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Okay. And then, you know, we're in the sort of unprecedented period of lack of trust between sort of Main Street and corporate America. You reportedly put out a letter internally. You know, in your mind, how does this thing kind of resolve itself? How do you continue to, you know, prove -- disprove a negative, essentially? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, Michael, look, I think when it comes to leadership in governance, I think investors have every right to be angry. It's one thing to lose your money on bad ideas. It's another to lose it to poor integrity and I think trust of investors is critical. They make GE successful and every business successful. I think we are trying to do four things. It starts with performance with integrity. We have got a great set of businesses. We have been in most of our businesses for as long as 100 years. And the credibility that goes with that, we have a very experienced leadership team. Our leaders of this company are operationally based, about half of the top 30 people in the company have been on the audit staff. We have the world's best audit staff. We have a culture of integrity and a strong audit committee, and so performance with integrity is what investors have to expect. We believe in more financial reporting. That's what we are doing today. We have had more investor meetings this year and Michael will also talk externally about the company; the way we run it internally. I think, Michael, governance is important. You know, I believe that the New York stock exchange proposal has a lot of good elements and I'm working with my board to implement those elements the next 60 or 90 days. And the last thing is the conduct of the CEO. I'm responsible for this company. I sign up for the results. I stand behind the results. I know the details. And I think the CEO has to be the moral leader of the company. And in behavior and in results and in stock ownership and in the variety of different things. So, I think high standards are good. But don't -- let's not anybody be confused. It's about performance with integrity. You have to continue to perform in this environment. That's what we plan to do. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Good stuff, Jeff. Thanks for taking a stand. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Just one update for Scott. Scott, we looked at the turbine orders in the second quarter, and on about 10 units, the price variance year-over-year is down 1.2%. So, pretty good performance. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Nicole Parent of Banc of America Securities. 

 NICOLE PARENT, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Good morning, guys. Keith, just two quick questions on capital. I guess, first, how should we think about the capital tax rate as we move through to the end of the year? And then, second, just intuitively, on the PNL, the interest and other line, I guess I would have thought because there is higher cost of funding that would have trended up and it actually went down? So I guess, what is the other component in that line? 

 KEITH SHERIN: On which p&l? On the capital? 

 NICOLE PARENT: On the capital. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah. So if you -- let me start with the tax rate for capital. Obviously, the tax rate this quarter, as I said, is going to be on a reported basis at 12.2%. If you take out the ERC and Worldcom impact, it's 18.9, that's down 1.7 points from last year. From, you know, continued increase globalization, other IRS settlements. The capital tax team has tremendous set of things that we are working on to minimize our taxes and stay efficient. I would say our forecast right now for the year for capital will be to have a tax rate somewhere between 18 and 21% in the second half. And I don't anticipate anything outside that range right now and obviously if we do, we'll communicate it with you. The second question, you know, if you look year-over-year, interest rates are still down significantly. That's why the top line, you know, when you look at financing revenues down in interest costs are down correspondingly. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Scott Davis, a follow-up, from Morgan Stanley. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Thanks, guys. And I appreciate, Keith, you getting the answer for us on that. Definitely better than I would have expected. Just a question, and being new to your company, maybe I'm asking a dumb question here, but you have 25 new service contracts and 109 deliveries, and I just wondering if that is the ratio that you would have expected versus higher numbers that I have heard in the past. 

 KEITH SHERIN: This is for the power business? 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Yes. For power. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah. Well, the service contracts are -- a lot of the unit deliveries that we are making today, you know, were purchased on large bulk buy agreements where there was one service contract executed previously. So there is not going to be a direct correlation between unit shipments and service contracts signups. A lot of these would be additional customers that we signed up for long term service agreements. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Fair enough. And a quick follow-up: just conceptually big picture, you have had very strong asset growth in GE Capital. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yes. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Return on assets certainly a little bit disappointing this quarter [INAUDIBLE]. Is there a point that this year that you really refocus on return on assets versus asset growth and start to drive some of these returns up with digitization that you talked about? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I can tell you, Scott, every day we are working on improving that return on asset. It's not just about asset growth. It's about profitable growth and good returns. You know, as Jeff mentioned, we're in our strategic sessions right now. And our focus is obviously to grow the businesses that get the best returns on investment and to not allocate capital to the businesses that don't. So we do have a huge focus on it. I think the management team is totally aligned with that objective, and you know, excluding these events, both the ERC losses and the Worldcom, we have had pretty consistent good return on assets here. So we are focused on it and that's what we are driving. 

 SCOTT DAVIS: Okay. Appreciate it. Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Don McDougal of J.P. Morgan. 

 DON MCDOUGAL, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning, everyone. I had a question on the short cycle businesses. You put up some impressive revenue numbers really across the board for the short cycle. On plastics and appliances, though, if I look at the operating leverage, there is maybe a little bit less than I would have expected with that kind of revenue growth. My back of the envelope is that incremental margins and plastics were in the low 20s, appliances was in the mid-teens. Is there a point we reach from a volume standpoint where margins start to go up at a -- an accelerated rate? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: You know, I'll handle the plastics one, Don, just because I have got such a long heritage with that business. As you go through the cycles, you know, you get volume growth that starts off on a lower pricing and what typically happens is the capitalization goes up as you get sequentially better pricing and that's what we see going on with plastics. So, by the time you get to the third and fourth quarter, you'll get operating profit that's growing faster than revenue, and that's what you typically expect around the cycles, there. 

 KEITH SHERIN: You look at the appliance leverage. I thought it was pretty good. On revenue growth of 14%, we got 28% operating profit growth, and that's tremendous for that team both price management, new product introductions and cost out. So we're pretty happy with that in the appliance area. 

 DON MCDOUGAL: Okay. My follow-up question is on securitizations. Keith, you have talked about taking securitizations down by roughly half this year, which would be 650 to 700. I think the number of this quarter was down 55, which isn't at that run rate. Is that expectation for securitizations to come down by half this year still on track? 

 KEITH SHERIN: It is. You know, in the quarter, as I said, last year in the first -- in the second quarter, we had 132 million from securitization, this year we had 77. So we are pretty close to the -- down 50%. I mean, it's going to be in a range, but we're still on track to have lower securitizations this year. 

 DON MCDOUGAL: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Robert Friedman of Standard & Poor's. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN, STANDARD & POOR'S: Yes. I'd like to go a little bit more into your cash flow from operations. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Could we go over this quarter over quarter -- not sequentially, you know, 2 q, '02 with 2 q '01? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: First of all, did the tax settlements become a positive number in that cash flow from operations? 

 KEITH SHERIN: The total amount was less than $80 million in cash, and I'm not sure if it's all in the second quarter, but for the year it will be about 80 out of that settlement. The rest was reserves, Robert. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Okay. What did you mean by progress? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, we obviously as we take orders from our Power Systems customers, in the past as we built our backlogs, they pay a significant down payment and that's progress collections. And so those cash payments that customers give us as we procure material and build those turbines give us a funding to cover any incremental investment as we grew our backlog in the Power Systems business. So that's what progress collections are. And as we deliver those turbines, those progress collections go from progress collections liability into cash in the bank as a receivable collected. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Okay. Well, with -- with progress payments, what was cash flow from operations in Q2 '02 versus Q2 '01? And then also, what was the change in working capital during this period? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I'm going to have to get back to you on the progress collections -- with progress collections versus '01. We had 3.9 billion of cash flow ex-progress in the second quarter, which was up 9%. And progress collections were down 1.90. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: We'll have to compare that to what it was the prior year. 

 KEITH SHERIN: And working capital is about flat.Okay? Okay? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: And Robert, on the cash with progress, two things. There is -- in the supplemental schedules that we posted on the site, there is a detailed breakout of cash flow with and without progress. The numbers were, uhm -- and it's in the press release in the cash bullet. Reported cash bullet from operations was 3.5 billion. Down from last year's 7.8 billion as a result of the progress dynamic that Keith just described. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Oh, -- 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Those individuals pieces are laid out on the site. Thanks. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: And then -- one follow-up. How much stock option grants will GE issue for '02? You had 16 -- 60.9 million in '01. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I think at this point, Robert, we just are still on the planning phase and I think it's too soon to tell. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: When will you have that number? 

 KEITH SHERIN: We'll know by the fourth quarter. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: We'll know by the fourth quarter. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: By the fourth quarter. Okay. Thank you. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Okay. Thanks, Robert. 

 ROBERT FRIEDMAN: Thanks 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jim Rosenberger of Bernstein Investment Research. 

 JIM ROSENBERGER, BERNSTEIN INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Hi, guys. I had a couple of questions on the turbine business. You still shipping a lot of turbines this is year and next year as the orders wind down and there's been cancellations. Do you expect that the majority of those turbines are actually going to go into service, or that they will be perhaps accepted for delivery and held for future use? And secondly, we are reading a lot about the power problems in both New York and California continuing. Will some of these shipments go a long way towards solving those problems, or do you expect there to be continuing structural issues in those markets? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Great question. We're looking at somewhere around 260 units being shipped this year, going to about 150 units -- these are large gas turbines out of Greenville, 150 units being shipped next year. We do anticipate that there is somewhere around 50 units or so that are not put into installation based on the current economics of electricity prices and supply/demand. But obviously, there are still bottlenecks in the distribution systems. There are still places that do not have enough supply. And you know, it depends upon how capital markets determine the financing capability for some of these projects to clear up in places where there are still shortages like in California. So we'll see. Obviously, hot summers and those shortages highlight those inefficiencies in the distribution network. And project developers will take advantage of those opportunities if they can get financing and make the project economical . So we think the vast majority, obviously, of these turbines are being delivered, installed and put into operation. And there are a few that we don't anticipate will be put into projects for a couple of years. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Jack Murphy of John Levin and Company. 

 JACK MURPHY, JOHN LEVIN AND COMPANY: Good morning. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Hey, Jack. 

 JACK MURPHY: Two of the businesses, and this kind of follows on what Don asked. NBC and medicals, I thought the margins on the additional revenues could have been a little better than they were. Are those two businesses that are -- are they earlier and their front room back room restructurings and they absorbed more, you know, early costs in those areas than some of the other businesses? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, I think in -- let's look at plastics. Say in plastics' case, you have the dynamics -- [ Pause ] Let me see. I'm sorry. In medical, we obviously continue to invest in new products. 

 JACK MURPHY: Right. 

 KEITH SHERIN: And global distribution and in some cases acquisitions. So I think those are the factors that where we're seeing future developments to continue to have growth in profitability as opposed to front room/back room. The team has made tremendous progress with the digitization efforts. They have a great digital cockpit. They have managed the business on a GEMS 25 measurement basis which, is realtime virtual measurements, and so I think they are in pretty good shape. I think it's investments about the future in that business. If you look at NBC, I'll have to, you know, come out with some different dynamics. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: But I would say, Jack, we expect both those businesses to grow earnings faster than revenue. 

 JACK MURPHY: Going forward? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Going forward, yeah, for sure. 

 JACK MURPHY: And where does the front room/back room restructuring -- when does that actually start, or has it been going on and it will continue to go on and we won't really notice it? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Jack, it continues to go on. It's going to be -- you know, I think on going for the next 2 to 3 years, and our expectation is that we'll take billions of dollars cost out and more importantly, be able to reallocate resources more into the growth. 

 JACK MURPHY: Okay. But we shouldn't see it. It's not something you call out? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Well, you know, I think where you'll see it, Jack, is our SG&A as a percent of sales will continue to go down between, you know, 50 and 100 basis points a year. 

 KEITH SHERIN: One other point an NBC, Jack, is KNTV and Telemundo both came in the quarter but haven't started contributing. 

 JACK MURPHY: That's fair. 

 KEITH SHERIN: That's another factor. 

 JACK MURPHY: And the Cap-Ex budget was up a little bit. Are we at a $4 billion Cap-Ex run rate for the year now or.... 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I don't think you should -- 

 KEITH SHERIN: No. The p&es at the half, it's only a billion. 

 JACK MURPHY: That's through the half. Okay. I apologize. And you also said something that you said the pension tax rate when you are talking about in the one time items in the quarter or something or the offsets, you said that the pension expense after tax -- is pension income actually taxed? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. 

 JACK MURPHY: It is?? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. So these numbers that we include in our net income are after tax numbers. 

 JACK MURPHY: Okay. All right. Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yup. Thanks, Jack. 

 OPERATOR: Operator: your next question comes from Colin Crook of UBS Warburg. 

 COLIN CROOK, UBS WARBURG: Hi, guys. Can I just go into the Commercial Aerospace operations [INAUDIBLE]. [ heavy accent ] As this year progressed, you said air traffic, passenger traffic slow in terms of the recovery, pricing remains difficult to the airlines. In fact, the profit forecast and expectations in those airlines seem to be deteriorating by the day. Have you changed your view in terms of the cycle? And in particular in terms of G-Cast? What are your expectations in terms of the Cap-Ex program and delivery schedules you expect going forward? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Look, I think the airlines are still having a difficult time after the impact of 9/11, Colin. You know, we're clearly seeing Boeing has committed to additional production cuts for next year in the commercial engine, deliveries will be affected in our business because of that. Airbus has production declines. I don't know as far as some people forecast. So we are counting on additional declines in the commercial engine business based on what the EOM's are going to produce. We are seeing revenue passenger miles increase sequentially from 9/11, and obviously as the airlines fly, that does give us a benefit in terms of flight hours and then shop visits and then our engine spare parts sales. Our outlook for both businesses is reasonably good in a pretty difficult environment. We're supporting our airline customers everywhere with six sigma projects, at the customer, for the customer projects. We are making investments in assets in the airlines where we think they make good financial returns and also help our customers. We think the aircraft engine business is like we said is going to be about flat this year and will be up double-digit next year, and we think G-Cast will be down about 5% this year but they have had good volume opportunities, and we think they are going to have pretty good profitability growth in the future. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I would just add to what Keith said, we have basically the same forecast for commercial aircraft delivery that Boeing has. So we have a pretty realistic view over the next two or three years. And on the engine side, we have a great revenue stream and services and the military businesses is pretty attractive now, growing at about 20%. And for G-Cast standpoint, we view this has been a good opportunity to help support customers and be profitable while we are doing it. This is an industry we have been in for 85 years. We understand that we think as well or better than anybody around, and we are looking to continue to support it during the cycle. 

 COLIN CROOK: Do you think that the 575, 600 large aircraft is low enough for the bottom of the cycle to clear the overcapacity? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Again, I -- you know, we're seeing -- actually when we look at supply and demand charts, we are seeing the actual overcapacity surplus seats go up to, you know, 10 to 12%. So I think it's going to take them a couple of years to work its way through. I'm not sure it just ends '03, Colin, to your point. We are going to have to see how global demand continues, and obviously, everyone's planning for lower deliveries as they try to work their way through that cycle. It's similar to what we saw after the Gulf War, but maybe a point or two higher. 

 COLIN CROOK: Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question is a follow-up question from Michael Reagan of CSFB. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Thank you, Keith. Not to dig in too deep, but on equipment management in sort of other equipment, not aviation, not Americom, profits fell by a third. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Right. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Up by two-thirds, actually. Kind of typical for this part of the cycle. But anything going on there, can you just give us some additional clarity? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, there is one other item in there Michael, that was, you know, Penske is in there and last year, in the second quarter, we had a large tax benefit in Penske that doesn't repeat. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Gotcha. 

 KEITH SHERIN: So the rest -- [ Overlapping Speakers ] 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: How big, in other words, what's apples-to-apples benefit? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I think that was -- I'll have to get you the exact number. I thought it was around $50, $60 million net but I'll check. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Okay so a lot closer to sort of a 50% decline which would you expect for this part of the cycle? 

 KEITH SHERIN: We are in the other, other, yes. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Okay. And utilization rates, you guys have been great, kind of giving us updates there; anything changing? 

 KEITH SHERIN: No change from what we showed you two weeks ago. 

 MICHAEL REAGAN: Okay. Terrific. Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thanks, Michael. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Aaron Skulloff of HSBC. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Good morning, erin -- Aaron. 

 AARON SKULLOFF, HSBC: Good morning. Getting back to the aviation and aerospace, can you give us some of your outlook on what you expect for changes in part planes as well as revenue passenger miles? I know, you gave us trends, but maybe some absolute points that we can look for? 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Can you repeat that? 

 AARON SKULLOFF: Sure. Looking at the aerospace and aviation side, trying to figure out some data points that we should be looking for, for changes in parked planes as well as changes in revenue passenger miles as opposed to just the trends that you guys are talking about.... 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah. Uhm, boy, you know, parked planes are really the airlines' problem. As I said, we have 11 of them. And we're working our way through those and that's a pretty good number for us. I really don't know the total number of parked planes, and, you know, that's really again the airlines' problem. In terms of revenue passenger miles, we just use what's published in the newspapers by the airline industry. I don't have any other separate forecasts for rpm's. In our long term planning, you know, we'll use an assumption of 2 to 3% revenue passenger mile growth going out the next 3 years. Sorry, I don't have more to details on that I think those are in --we use the industry numbers there. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question is a follow-up question from Bob Cornell of Lehman Brothers. 

 BOB CORNELL: Yeah, thanks. I actually have two follow-up questions. One is, I don't think anyone has asked yet why interest and other was down to 75 million, you know, versus, you know, first quarter 150. Normally, that number is normally higher than that. That's question one, and question2 is, you know, you mentioned I think, Keith, the restructuring in the third quarter power at 140 million. Is that the extent of the restructuring and when might we see the balance and what would the balance be? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Uhm... let me answer the restructuring question first and then I want you to go back to the first one so I which know which income statement you're looking at, Bob. The restructuring, obviously what we said is we'll start our restructuring in the second half of 2002. You know, there are very detailed guidelines about how you can see record restructuring charges, projects have to be completed within 12 months, you got to have, obviously, all the planning done and approved. And you are going to, you know, complete the project. We are working on those plans, and so we'll start in the third quarter. We'll probably have some more in the fourth quarter and we'll probably have some more in 2003. As we said, we have to take out about a billion dollars of cost and we think over the next 18 months, we are going to have about a half billion dollars or so in restructuring charges. The only thing I have communicated so far about that in more detail is that, you know, in the third quarter right now we anticipate somewhere around $140 million of restructuring in the power business. But those plans are still being worked and finalized. Now, the first question on other and interest? 

 BOB CORNELL: Yeah. Uhm, you show, uhm, 75 million of interest and other. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Versus 115? Yeah. 

 BOB CORNELL: Versus 115. Yeah, versus 115. And, you know, that's always a funky number for you guys anyway because it's mostly other and not interest. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah. 

 BOB CORNELL: But just why was it 75 and what's the outlook for the balance of the year? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I'll have Rich follow up with you on that. I'll get you good numbers. 

 BOB CORNELL: Thanks. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Okay. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: If we can do one more question, David 

 OPERATOR: Yes, sir. Your next question comes from Steven Hotson of J.P. Morgan. 

 STEVEN HOTSON, J.P. MORGAN: Good morning. Looks like a pretty solid quarter, guys. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Yeah, Steven, thanks. 

 STEVEN HOTSON: I want to follow up on ERC and insurance. We talked about these charges I believe related to '99 and before. Loss experience. But recently, since you talked to NBC, saw competitors announced some large additions to reserves for both world trade center and just general liability lines globally, given their profile is somewhat similar to them, are you, reserved already at a larger level than your peers, more conservatively, or is there anything that would make your loss experience different -- reserve experience different in the post '99 years than what you have seen from them given the mix of business they were reserving for? Any color there? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure. Let me clarify the -- the majority of those charges relate to '98 to 2000 underwriting years. So if I said '99 and prior previously, I may have misspoken, I didn't think I did. But principally, the '98 to 2000. So I'm not sure we are different than the others. You know, we spent a lot of time after 9/11 looking at all our contracts and our liabilities. We came up with an estimate at the end of September last year of about $600 million pre-tax. We worked that estimate obviously every month since then and that estimate is still holding. So we haven't had a change in these numbers that relates to the world trade center event yet, but obviously there is a lot more work to be done and finalized before all those claims will be completed for everybody and all the reinsurance claims will be filed and completed. But right now, we're still holding to that estimate. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: I just want to reiterate a point that Keith made earlier on ERC. Again, you know, our experience really bears what's happening in the industry but on a current period basis, on a go-forward basis, I like the operating fundamentals. I like the pricing. I like what the team's doing right now. And I think we are doing the right things. 

 STEVEN HOTSON: Great. Thanks. 

 JEFFREY IMMELT: Okay. David, thanks. We will wrap it up now. Obviously, if there's any more questions, Joanna and I are always available. You have the numbers on how to reach us. And we'll be happy to follow up and go into whatever depth you would like. As I said, before the call, the materials that we went over in the call are available on the site. You can download them there. The replay will be available this afternoon on the site, www.ge.com/investor. And we want to thank you for participating in the call. We'll speak to you again. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thanks very much for your attention this morning, time and attention. Again, I think it's a solid quarter for GE. I think you have a pretty good view of how we see the businesses we're in. This is a company that has a business model that's built to perform and a tremendous team that's dedicated to perform for investors. So thanks for your attention and we'll talk to you soon. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's General Electric conference call. This call will be available for replay at GE's investors website at www.ge.com/investor. You may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy7c004yl
  


 HD
 Q1  2002  General Electric  Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
12,555 words
   PD
11 April 2002
   ET
01:00 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is David and I will be your conference facilitator today. 

 At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the General Electric's first quarter earnings release conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks, there will be a question-and-answer period. If you would like to ask a question during this time, simply press star, then the number one on your telephone keypad. If you would like to withdraw your question, press the pound key. 

   TD
 Thank you. Mr. Wacker, you may begin your conference. 

 RICHARD WACKER, VP CORPORATE INVESTOR RELATIONS, GENERAL ELECTRIC: Thank you, David. 

 As David said, we'd like to -- Joanna and I would like to welcome you to our first quarter earnings release conference call. The press release is out, you should have received that with some additional schedules. Those schedules and the materials that we're going to cover in this call will be available on our Web site after the call, along with a replay of the call. You can access that, and if you're listening in and want to follow along on the Web, you should also be on the same site, which is www.ge.com/investor. 

 We have Keith Sherin, the Chief Financial Officer of GE, who is here to cover the materials in the call. We do have a lot of material that we wanted to go through with you. We will try to move through that at a good pace, but there is quite a bit. As we get to the end of that, we will open it up for Q&A with the time we have. And we will begin. 

 As you can see on this first page, certain elements are forward looking statements that are based on everything we understand and expect at this point in time, but obviously as circumstances change, some of those estimations may change, but you're accustomed to that, and let's begin. And Keith, I will turn it over to you now. 

 KEITH SHERIN, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, GENERAL ELECTRIC COMPANY: Rich great, thanks. I want to let everybody know there's a delay as we go between pages on the Web site of 15 seconds or so, so I'm going to try to move through the material as quickly as I can. I'll also be as clear as I can on the explanations. We have about 30 pages to try and give you a good overview of how we performed in the quarter. 

 I'd like to start with the agenda, which is not up on there, it comes on the web site now. I'm going to cover the financial results for the quarter and the company highlights. Quite a bit more information than we have in just the press release. I'm going to cover the segment results in the highlights, and you'll see in this release we have gone to the same level of detail that we had in the annual report by business. 

 I'm going to give you a little bit of a flavor how we feel about the whole year based on what we've seen in the quarter at the end. And the message we have today is we delivered the 35 cents earnings per share for Q1, excluding accounting changes and I'll show you that, it's a little complicated with all the accounting changes. And we're on track for what we said previously for the total year $1.65 to $1.67. 

 First page we're going to go to is the first quarter 2002 highlights. Our message here is that we delivered again. We met the earnings and cash expectations that we set for ourselves in the company. The business environment is still very tough, you know, we continue to see the results in our airline businesses, our aircraft engine business and our GECAS business as we expected, at the end of last year, after the impact of September 11th, but they're on track as expected, and I'll go through the details. 

 We continue to see a changing environment insurance as we expected, in reinsurance, employers reinsurance, and I'll show you those results. We have even tougher than we expected results in the industrial driven short cycle businesses. This is a tough economy, as tough as we've seen in a long time. And we're going to take you through those results on the short cycle. And the strength of the company clearly came from power systems, GE Capital, and our productivity and digitization efforts across GE. And I'll show you how those initiatives in those businesses provided the earning strengths. 

 We did make great progress on our business development goals. We added new platforms, and we added technology to strengthen the businesses, and I have quite a bit more information in here about acquisitions than we've previously given. It's one of the feedback we had from investors, so we've done a lot on that for you. And we do see some signs of strengthening in the short cycle as we enter the second quarter, but it's really the portfolio, the diversity on the execution on the initiatives that give the double-digit results on our earnings and cash. 

 Next page I'm going to get to is on earnings comparisons. And I want to spend a minute on this. The accounting changes have made the comparisons more complicated, I think they're pretty straightforward, if I can take you through them, but I'll -- like to explain them. The first line that we have here is GE earnings as reported in 2002 and 2001 for the quarter. And then on the right side our diluted earnings per share. 

 The GE earnings as reported in 2001 in the first quarter were $2.57 billion includes the non-cash cumulative catch up adjustment for implementing FAS133. And in 2002 the GE earnings as reported, $2.5 billion includes the one time write off of some goodwill as we implemented FAS142. So those are what are the total reported numbers, including cumulative catch up non-cash accounting changes, one in the first quarter of 2001, and one in the first quarter of 2002. 

 Now the way we're looking at the company is in the box. Before the accounting changes -- before the reported cumulative impact of accounting changes, we're reporting earnings of $3.5 billion, up 17 percent. And the way to look at that number is there is no goodwill amortization in the 2002 number, the $3.5 billion, but with the implementation again of FAS142, we -- you don't go back and recast 2001, so you're making a comparison to a number that in the prior year did have goodwill amortization, which makes the earnings be higher than it would be on a comparable basis. So that's the reported number without accounting changes. 

 The next line is the way, you know, we're looking at the company internally. And we had two non-cash accounting changes impacting the earnings during 2002 that we've talked about previously. First we're not amortizing goodwill anymore, that certainly raises the earnings in 2002. And second, we've lowered our earnings growth assumption on our pension from nine-and-a-half to eight-and-a-half percent, we disclosed that last year in the third quarter Q and we will put more out about that in the annual report. 

 If you take the impact of those two non-cash accounting changes out, so there's no goodwill amortization in either period, and there's no pension earnings in either period, earnings are up 12 and EPS is up 14. And that's the way we're looking at the operations of the company. And then finally on the line below the box, if you just exclude the impact of goodwill amortization, it's already out of 2002, the $3.5 billion -- if you take the goodwill out of 2001, the earnings are up eight percent, they're depressed a little bit because of that change in the accounting on pensions it lowers the earnings non-cash change and earnings per share up nine. 

 So I think that's a pretty good summary of the lot of ways to look at the earnings again, as I go through here you'll see how we view the earnings in the quarter. From operations we're up about 12 percent, and then with the accounting change we're up only eight. 

 Next is the highlights page for the quarter. Like to talk about cash flow first. Cash flow from operating activities was up 18 percent, ex progress collections, 2.2 billion this year versus 1.8 billion last year, so we're growing a little faster than our earnings. 

 The total cash flow from operating activities is at 1.4 billion versus 3.1 last year, reflecting the changes in progress collections as we continue to deliver those power units, the progress collections will decline and we'll earn those earnings, and have the cash receivables already collected. The first quarter progress collections declined about $700 million, and last year they had an increase of about 1.2 billion. And I have a schedule later on cash flow to give you all the details for the quarter. 

 Revenues were flat at about $30.5 billion. Flat versus the first quarter last year, if you split the company, I'll separate it here, the industrial revenues were up about five percent, that was driven by strong growth in Power Systems and also the Olympics and NBC. I will show you more about revenues later. GE Capital Services revenues were down six percent, reflecting two things. 

 One, we have declines from the continued repositioning activities that we talked about last year, portfolio runoffs and some exits in some businesses, and the second thing, there's the revenue impact from the lower interest rate environment, which also has an associated lower borrowing cost with it in our match funded model. But, I thought the table might be helpful. 

 Industrial revenues were up five, and our operating profit is up 14 percent, and that's driven by strong productivity across our businesses, and I'll show you the earnings variance, but that's a pretty good relationship of leverage, given that you've got revenue growth about five, and you can get some really good earnings leverage with strong productivity. 

 GE Capital, the revenues are down six and the operating profit, or the net income, in Capital's up eight, on a reported basis here. Now the impact of interest rates is dramatic, and I think the way that you might want to think about it is if you look at the contributed value in GE Capital, and basically that's just simply taking our revenue number, less our interest costs, so that's the amount of contributive value we have to deal with all our operating expenses and to create earnings, that's up six percent. So in a declining interest environment, the top line is down, but we're continuing to have a good spread, and that contributive value on six percent, we got eight percent operating profit growth. 

 In the industrial company, our operating margin was up half a point, to a record of 18.2. Again, you know, if you include goodwill that's in that reported number, 18.2, we don't amortized goodwill in 2002, and you had goodwill in 2001. If you exclude that goodwill change, so take goodwill out of both years, and you also take out the impact to the Olympics, where we had a dilutive margin, the OM rate's about 18.9, up from a comparable 18.5. So either on a reported basis or on a comparable basis they're both up -- operating margins both up about a half a point. 

 Acquisitions in the quarter -- there's some information out there about what the acquisitions were. Our data is that the industrial acquisitions contributed 236 million in sales, and 26 million of pre-tax profit in the first quarter. And the GE Capital acquisitions contributed 142 million of net income in the quarter. And we've had great progress on business development, 13 deals closed for $2.1 billion on the industrial side, I'll show you the details of that. 

 And finally our initiatives, you know, digitization is really driving productivity in the company, I'll show you the details, about $400 million of pre-tax growth contributing to our productivity. And we have continued great service growth. So these are some of the highlights, and I'll be taking you through the pieces of these now in the presentation. 

 The first page I'm going to cover is about the goodwill impairment, I want to get it loaded up here. Apologize for the delay, with so many people on the call we don't have -- here's the page now. So this is a page we put out in the package when we had the earnings at the end of the year. We told you our goodwill balances and we told you that we were going to have some impairment of goodwill. We have about a billion dollars of impairment, which is exactly what we said, and it's 4.3 percent of our goodwill. So no change here from our annual report discussion, and it's exactly what we disclosed before. 

 Next piece I'm going to talk about is our earnings growth, and a little variance analysis. If you look, in Q1 of 2001 we had $3 billion of earnings, 30 cents a share. And then I have the elements of the variance analysis driving down to the $3.5 billion of earnings that we report in 2002 in the first quarter. We got about eight percent volume growth, which delivered 60 million net. We had about one-and-a-half percent of price erosion, which is 188 million down. 

 We had a slight impact from foreign exchange with a strong dollar down about -- a little less than a point, 22 million. We had overall deflation, our direct material deflation more than offset our comp and benefit inflation of about $35 million benefit. And you can see we had really strong productivity, the total is $395 million. Four percent total cost productivity across the company. 

 Then we have other contributing $170 million, I tried to break that out on the right side. Not amortizing goodwill is an increase in earnings year-over-year of $250 million. The pension earnings are down $113 million year-over-year. And just to give you the numbers, in the first quarter of 2001 we reported in total $349 million of pension income. 

 And in the first quarter of 2002, we reported $236 million of pension income, down 113 million. And then in total, you can see up 17 percent on a reported basis without accounting changes. And then if you exclude the goodwill in the pension it's up 12 as I said on the previous chart. So the earnings growth is really driven by strong productivity, in both the industrial and the capital businesses. 

 Digitization -- this is a chart just to be consistent with what we've shown you before. We had Gary Rogers at the analyst meeting that we had in Crotonville on March 18th, showing you our digitization impacts in the current year, the E-Buy is contributing $200 million pre-tax. And the E-Make which includes all of our SG&A efforts to reduce our costs is also contributing $200 million pre-tax. So digitization is a big driver of our productivity across all of GE. And we're also improving our service to customers with our digitization efforts. 

 Here's a summary of the industrial performance, split between the short cycle and the long cycle. You can see revenue of sales on the left side, and operating profit on the right side. On the short cycle a pretty tough environment. Sales up one percent. It's down ten, ex the Olympics, you'll see that business by business. And then the operating profit's down 23 percent on the short cycle. Pretty tough environment as we have one tougher, comparisons to the first quarter last year was pretty good, and still a very difficult economic scenario out there. And the second thing is on the long cycle. 

 Revenues were up nine, and operating profits up 36, so overall operating profit up 14. The business model works. Having a long cycle strength right now is offsetting the weakness in the short cycle, and it's allowing us to have terrific earnings growth and cash performance, even in a pretty difficult environment out there. 

 The next section I'm going to talk about is, about the quality of our earnings and cash flow. Let me get the chart loaded up here for everybody. What we have is a rolling 12 month look at earnings. You can see for the last two years, 2000 and 2001, and the first quarter of 2002, we have $14.6 billion of net income on a rolling 12. And $14.1 billion of cash flow from operating activities, ex-progress on a rolling 12. And you can see that earnings growth and cash growth from operating activities ex-progress subtract each other. We continue to monitor this in the company every single month. 

 We work every one of our businesses on these metrics to make sure we can continue to deliver high quality earnings and cash confirming that. And then down at the bottom we just showed you the change in progress collections. Last year in the first quarter we had $1.2 billion of growth in progress, and this year in the first quarter we had a $700 million decline in progress as we delivered those units to our turbine customers, as I said. 

 Next chart that I'm going to get to is on cash flow for the quarter. If you look, the cash flow beginning -- the cash beginning balance at the end of the year was 11.3, and what I have here is just how the cash changed in the first quarter. So we started with 11.3 billion in cash, we generated $2.2 billion in cash flow from operating activities, that's progress as I mentioned. We used that cash, we paid dividends of a billion eight, we bought stock back of $700 million. We had P&E expenditures of $400 million, you can see that's down 300 million from last year, and we're going to continue to drive that down all year to have about a one-to-one reinvestment rate on P&E versus depreciation. 

 We had a good acquisition quarter, we spent a billion seven, which was up dramatically from last year. We -- up a billion six. And then we also paid down about a billion dollars of debt at the parent level, and finally the progress collections balance was down 700 million. So you can see we generated 2.2 billion from progress --x-progress (ph) up $400 million. We gave back two-and-a-half billion dollars to shareholders, and we invested $2 billion on industrial acquisitions and P&E, which will give us future earnings growth. 

 Next I'm going to get into is the GE Capital net income. Here it is -- in the first quarter of 2001 we earned a billion four. And you can see in the first quarter of 2002 we earned a billion, 657, up 18 percent reported. Here are the pieces -- not amortizing goodwill contributed $139 million of growth. We have -- the Americom transaction where we formed a joint venture with SES (ph) and have a minority equity position. Last year Americom earned $91 million in the quarter, this year our minority equity stake earned 10. So we have an $80 million decline year-over-year in the quarter from the Americom transaction. 

 Our ERC business has earnings that are down 66 million in the quarter, consistent with what we said on track for $200 million of earnings in the year, and I'll show you the details of that, but that's an earnings decline. We had lower gains of $107 million net income in the first quarter of 2002 versus the first quarter of 2001. And let me just give you some of those pieces. Securitization gains in the first quarter of 2002 were $103 million, 27 million lower than last year. 

 Gains on investment securities were $84 million, $80 million lower than last year in the first quarter. And other GE equity gains in our GE equity portfolio were $43 million of losses, so that was flat with $43 million of losses in the first quarter of last year. So overall you can see the total gains are down 107 million. 

 Tax rate in GE Capital contributed to our growth, we had a tax rate of 20 percent in the first quarter of 2002 versus a tax rate of 23.8, so it's down 3.8 points. That's really from our growth in our global earnings, and our lower tax global income, and pretty sustainable. 

 So that contributed to earnings. And then core growth, pretty strong, $149 million, principally productivity, great costs out by the teams in GE Capital to continue to drive reductions in their SG&A, and we had a good quarter in terms of earnings growth with acquisitions. 

 As we said last year, we had a good acquisition year last year in GE Capital, and we've got $149 million of earnings growth in the quarter from acquisitions -- principally Heller, Mellon, iGroup and Franchise Finance. 

 So up 18 percent, without the benefit of goodwill the total portfolio's up eight, and then if you look at the impact of not having Americom, and also the declines in ERC, up 18. So, pretty strong comparable performance. 

 Here's a look at GE Capital's assets in the quarter. This is really a great story for us. Putting these assets in place gives us real earnings power. They're up 15 percent over last year's first quarter, up a little bit over the year end number, so $427 billion of assets. Specialized financing is up 18 percent. 

 Good volume growth in structured financing, commercial real estate. Our mid market assets are up 39 percent. Principal driver there is the Heller acquisition, about 23 million, $23 billion of assets in that segment from the Heller acquisition. But we also had good core growth in commercial equipment finance, up about 10 billion. The consumer service is up six. 

 Core growth is up about 10 billion, iGroup and King Fisher are a couple acquisitions contributed a little more. And we had some continued runoff of our AFS portfolio, Auto Financial Services portfolio. Equipment management up 16 percent. Strong growth in GECAS, offset somewhat by not having the Americom assets in that segment anymore. And then specialty insurance up principally related to the ERC retro reserves that we did after the World Trade Center and September 11th, so. Great asset growth which gives us good positioning for earnings growth. 

 Next I'm going to talk a little bit about the quality indicators in the portfolio. I'd like to show you charts that we use on both the equipment financing portfolio, about $66 billion outstanding. You can see the delinquency here of 30 plus days past due at 2.07 percent. That's pretty much flat with where we've been, and we feel pretty good about where we are on that. 

 On the bottom, the consumer $62 billion outstanding, and a delinquency of 30 plus days at 5.18. Again, you can see that's pretty flat with where we've been over the last six months. It's a pretty difficult environment, both industrially and from a consumer perspective. But we're managing it very carefully. You can see our allowance for losses in the quarter at $4.9 billion, we're up $90 million, to 2.75 percent of our financing receivables. So a good increase in our allowance. Our write-offs were up to $535 million in the quarter, pretty consistent as a percent of our average net investment, .79 versus .82. 

 Our non and reduced earnings assets are at $3.4 billion, that's up 143 million from year end. And again, we continue to work on a lot of restructuring, and there are commercial bankruptcies that we're working our way through. But we feel pretty good about our position. And finally we got great risk management. We got first the diversity of the portfolio and the size of the bets we take. We have over 3,000 risk managers, and we've got 7,800 collectors, we've added about 1,000 collectors in the last nine months. So it's -- we're anticipating a tough '02, but our underwriting and collections focus is keeping delinquency relatively flat. 

 Next page I'm going to talk about is treasury. Just to recap on the left side, the first quarter activity, we did do about $25 billion in long-term debt, with a majority of that in U.S. markets. Our 2002 funding strategy's on track, commercial paper end of the quarter at 101 billion, about 42 percent of debt, down 16 billion from the year end levels. 

 You know, the press release we put out on March 21st really describes the near term strategy. We said we do about the similar level of long-term debt in the second quarter, you know, it's going to depend on markets and depend on how the rates are around the world. And the second half we'll probably do a little less than we've done in the total in the first half, that's going to depend on asset growth as well. 

 But the strategy we put out on 3/21 is what we're executing. We got great demand for the commercial paper, we're on track for expanding our bank lines. You'll be hearing more about that in the next few weeks. And you saw S&P reaffirm the triple a this week. And then on the right side I just want to give you a little look at the bond performance. You can see that five-year bonds (inaudible) the treasury, we went out on 3/13 priced at 80 basis points over treasury's. On 3/20 it was 81 basis points over treasury's. 

 We had a lot of information questioning about our debt strategy at that date, and you can see the spread's widened both on the five-year and the 30-year after those articles and discussions came out. We did a lot of communication and clarification. And today, if you'll look, the five years are 76 basis points over the treasury's, and the 30 year's 114 basis points. And if you look at the Lehman market index from that period, it's up nine basis points. So both on the five and the 30-year we're currently outperforming the markets, and we feel great about where we are with our debt strategy. 

 We have another session on Monday in New York with a bunch of bond holders to kind of review everything that we're doing. But we're continuing to communicate very clearly about what we're doing with that. 

 Next page is on acquisitions. We've had I would say several requests for information about acquisitions after the annual report, and we wanted to provide that data. What we have here is the first year impact of acquisitions on the company in both GE and GE Capital. If you look on the top left quartile there, we got GE Industrial Sales, the total revenues in the industrial company by year. Then we have the V dollar, how much it grew, so in 2002 in the first quarter, $16.7 billion of sales, it was up $900 million. Acquisitions contributed $200 million to that growth, and core growth was $700 million. 

 Down to the bottom left is consolidated revenues, including the GE Capital revenues and the industrial revenues, and so again, if you look at 2002 in the first quarter, 30.5 billion, it was flat with last year. Acquisitions contribute about a billion dollars of revenue growth, and the core growth was down a billion, principally the impacts in GE Capital that I talked about. 

 On the top right are the earnings impact from acquisitions. You can see by year our total net income, so in the first quarter of 2002 again, we had $3.5 billion in net income, up a half a billion dollars. The acquisitions contributed $160 million and the core growth was $340 million. 

 And then finally on the bottom right, we outlined the purchases just to show that we are making acquisitions. We have used principally cash to make these acquisitions. We have done some with stock where it makes sense for us from an acquisition perspective, on a price perspective and from the seller's perspective principally. So acquisitions are one element of our growth, and we think the environment is still great for continued acquisitions to strengthen our positions in our core businesses. And I'll show you some more details about the first quarter acquisitions in a few pages. 

 Next section I'm going to load up is on segment reporting, and I want to describe the changes we've made in the segment reporting for 2002, and there's three changes. A -- to facilitate comparisons in a world where you don't amortize goodwill in 2002, and you used to amortize it in 2001, we've taken goodwill out of both years, we've taken it out of all the business segments, and we're just having the goodwill amortization for 2001 and prior in the corporate segment. 

 So the results you're going to see are how the businesses are really operating. B -- we've isolated the impact of pension income in corporate. We've taken pension income out of all the businesses, we report that in one corporate line item, and we'll show you the adjustments we're making for that. And so again, you'll see the business operating results without any impact of non-cash earnings from pension. And C -- we've included across all the corporate segments an allocation of overhead for the corporate business, and we take the total corporate expense, we take the net cost of operations for all our businesses and we spread that overhead evenly based on a cost of operations relative to the total cost of operations in the company. 

 So, those three changes, if you look at the bottom, for the first quarter of 2001, the segment out profit was $4.7 billion, the businesses. We're going to add back the goodwill amortization in 2001 in the first quarter, so that's 248 million. We're going to take the pension income, pre-tax, out of the business operating profit and put that in a corporate line, so that'll reduce the segment out profit of 533, it doesn't have any change on the total because it's in corporate as you see zero. And then the corporate overhead charges to reflect that they have to pay for the total business. 

 So the current basis for 2001 will be 4.266 billion of out profit. And the charts with the prior year detail on this basis will be on our Web site for 2001 by quarter, and for 2000 in total so that we'll be able to have everybody do good comparisons. 

 And now I'm going to start to get into the segment reporting, which is what's in the press release for the total company. In the first quarter on the top half of the page we've got revenue. You can see the GE revenue's up five percent, about what we expected. And in total, GE Capital revenue's down six percent after eliminations to (inaudible) flat at $30.5 billion as I mentioned. 

 Now down at the bottom you'll see operating profit. For the industrial company, the GE operating profit pre-tax profitability, again without pension and without any goodwill amortization in either year, 3.098 versus 2.726, up 14 percent. I'm going to show you the details of that, that's all the industrial earnings. 

 Then I've got GE Capital earnings, a billion 657 versus a billion 540 by segment. Again the same level of detail we did in the annual report, up eight percent. So the total segment profits are up 11. Interest is down as a result in the interest rate environment. Taxes are up -- our tax rate, the effective tax rate, just to cover it here, is 23.4 in the quarter, last year it was 24.9. So it's down 1.5 points, but again you've got to remember we've got $1 billion of --you got the impact of not having any taxes on the goodwill. So the tax rate, if you exclude this goodwill change, is only down two-tenths of a point, or relatively flat. 

 Now let me take you through the industrial segments. I'm not going to hit all these businesses, but I will hit most of them. In the short cycle, if you look, you start with NBC, sales are up about 48 percent principally as a result of the Olympics. That added about 700 million of revenues. We had a great performance there by the team in the Olympics, we reached over 187 million viewers, over 85 percent of households. 

 The rest of the primetime schedule, we also had a terrific quarter. We're ratings in adults 18 to 49 were 40 percent better than our closest competitor. Even if you exclude the Olympics, our revenue would have been down about five, indicating it's still a pretty tough environment out there, but we are seeing some signs of improvement in the scatter, I'll cover that in the -- in the 2002 section. And operating profit in total for NBC is up five. 

 If you didn't have the Olympics, operating profit would have been about flat, which is a terrific performance in this tough environment, attributable to the cost actions the team's taking. Indirects are over 20 percent down in NBC. So a very good performance by that team. 

 Plastics, really difficult environment and difficult comparisons to first quarter last year. Sales were down 19 percent on lower volume, which was about six percent down, and lower price which was about 13 percent down. Operating profit was down 39 percent as you can see, principally driven by the negative leverage of the price and lower productivity on that lower volume. 

 Offset somewhat by some direct material deflation in our key raw materials, cumene, phenol, benzene were down about 15 percent in the quarter over last year. Sales in most of the end markets were down in the quarter, however plastics is showing some signs of improvement, and again, I'll cover that in the 2002 section. 

 Appliances. If you look at appliances, the revenues were up eight percent. Preliminary data indicates the industry was up about six percent. Our volume was up about nine percent, with one point of negative price. We think we picked up a little less than a point a share, with great distribution success and continued success of our new product introductions by the team down in appliances. So a good performance in that segment. 

 Lighting, pretty tough quarter. Sales were down 11 percent, result of lower volume which was down eight points, and lower price which was down three points. Our operating profit you can see, was down 66 percent. That's impact from the lower volume and the lower price, as well as the impact of higher advertising costs for our new product introduction on Reveal, and some write-offs we had for K-Mart, the K-Mart bankruptcy impacted our lighting business. 

 So, let me cover some of the segments in the long cycle. As expected, in aircraft engines, revenues are down six percent quarter over quarter, as a result of lower commercial engine spare parts and service sales. Spares and services our revenue were down 16 percent, and it's directly attributable to capacity reductions after September 11th. Engine shipments in the quarter, both commercial and military were up about two percent, and engine shipment revenues were up about three percent. So we continue to deliver on the backlog. But we still expect the commercial deliveries for all of 2002 to be down, and the military deliveries for the whole year to be up. 

 As we discussed in the press release, we had a number of major wins in commercial engines and services, as well as military. And as you can read in the press, you know, the airline trends are improving, but it's still a very difficult operating environment for them. We did have some improvement in our average daily order rates on spares, up over 15 percent in the first quarter from where we were on the year end. So we're seeing the direct impact of that additional capacity the airlines are talking about. 

 Operating profit in the segment was down 12 percent. Really reflecting the lower volume of service revenue, and despite service being down 16 percent, the operating profit was only down 12, as a result of very strong cost actions the team has taken since September 11th. We've reduced our headcount in the business by 14 percent. Most of this was accomplished last year in the fourth quarter. We've resized our service shops, and we've reduced our indirect costs across the business. So, in total, aircraft is on a track to have flat operating profit for the total year. 

 Next I'll cover medical. Revenues were up two percent, that's nine percent higher volume, offset by lower price of about three and half percent, and negative exchange of about three and a half percent. 

 Services were up six percent. And medical saw lower volume growth in the quarter, principally driven by new product cycles in both CT and ultrasound, and just general market contraction in Japan. The MR (ph), x-ray, nuclear businesses all saw a solid sales growth, up five to eight percent. And pet sales were more than double what we had last year, so pretty good in that (inaudible). 

 CT sales were down four percent, as our customers are anticipating the introduction of a new technology 16-slice CT products. We began taking orders for those products in March, but we won't have deliveries until later in the year. And that technology builds on the success we've had with our eight-slice CT product, the LightSpeed Ultra, which really led the market in the fourth quarter of last year, and had a growth of over 20 percent. 

 Ultrasound sales were down six percent from a year ago in the quarter. Again reflecting the ramp up of the new family of logic Ultrasound products that we introduced in the fourth quarter. Orders for the new products were great, up 10 percent. And that again led the market in the fourth quarter, Ultrasound sales in 2001 were up over 20 percent. So Ultrasound and CT product introductions had a revenue impact. 

 GM sales in Japan were flat in local currency, but down 16 percent on a dollar basis. It's a market that's down more than 10 percent as a result of reimbursement changes the government made in the fourth quarter of 2001. And we really expect that market to remain tough for the rest of the year. 

 Operating profit in medical was down nine percent in the volume declines and CT and Ultrasound. We had some planned restructuring that impacted base costs. We had an expansion that we planned in low cost countries to give our global product company better, lower costs in the future, and some higher fixed costs from acquisitions. Despite the quarterly timing on the volume, the business is on track for a double-digit operating profit growth for the full year. 

 The next segment I'll cover is power systems. Sales were up 24 percent driven by increased service up 19 percent. We had volume growth, we had contract terminations. Termination revenues in the quarter totaled 476 million, that represents contract cancellations principally by things we have been announced by our customers' (inaudible) around PPO very public information. 

 The gas turbine deliveries out of Greenville, we had 69 units this year versus 63 last year. And we had 16 gas turbines out of our European gas turbine business, versus 17 last year. We had 19 steam turbines this year versus 10 last year. And we had 34 aero derivative deliveries versus 33 last year. So that's the shipment data. And as evidenced by the 19 percent service growth, we just continue to see broadbased service performance, contractual service agreements, oil and gas services, and field repairs are all up about 20 percent in the quarter. 

 Operating profit was up strongly, 81 percent, again driven by the strong service growth, 12 percent productivity in the business. And the net benefit after costs of the termination payments. 

 Next I'd like to go to GE Capital. And again, here are the segments the same way we had them in the annual report. I'm going to cover some of the highlights. Top left is specialized financing, it's up 84 percent, or $99 million. 

 Strong performance in real estate and structured finance. Both businesses had core growth in the quarter. Real estate had some benefits from the Heller acquisition, and structured finance is now where we have the equity stake of the SES business, which contributed that $10 million in the quarter. And then you can see GE Equity's loss in the quarter was significantly improved, really driven by lower investment losses and carrying costs. They've also downsized the business, and we've taken out about 20 percent of the op and admin costs. So that gave us an improvement year over year. 

 Mid-market, great results up 21 percent, $60 million. Again, this is principally as a result of Heller acquisition. Commercial equipment finance increased their earnings 39 percent. Heller and Franchise Finance both contributed as well as core growth, offset by somewhat by lower securitization. Vendor had a great quarter, up 17 percent. 

 Growth from the Xerox financing and the Heller acquisition, again partially offset by lower volume in our telecom manufacturer programs, as you'd expect. Commercial finance was down slightly. We did have growth from core volume and Heller and Mellon, but that was offset by higher provisions for specific asset exposures as I said in the reduced and non-earning asset growth, we've put up some additional reserves in commercial finance in the quarter. 

 The consumer segment, 704 million net, up nine percent. Global consumer finance was up eight percent, principally driven by strong productivity. Some of the growth from also acquisitions, we did the iGroup last year, and that wasn't in the first quarter last year, in the first quarter this year, offset by some increased losses in Latin America, about $10 million. Card services had a great quarter, up 19 percent. 

 We had both core volume growth with strength in our large retail portfolios, especially Wal-Mart. And also strength in our monogram dealer programs, as well as lower losses in non-private label activities that we've exited the consumer direct business, offset somewhat by lower securitization again in card also. 

 GE Financial Assurance was up nine. Strong productivity was the real driver there, more than offset some of the weakness in the life and annuities businesses, linked to the difficult wealth management environment and the market environment. And gains were lower in GE Financial Assurance. 

 On the top right we've got equipment management, down 45 percent, $138 million. You can see the primary driver there is not having the Americom results in that segment anymore, not having Americom in our total results. GE Aviation Services had a quarter down 27 percent. It's principally last year we had a gain as a result of selling airplanes, 15 aircraft. We don't have that gain again this year. Without that gain we've been about flat. And the G-Cast (ph) team placed about 47 aircraft during the quarter, and we only had 12 aircraft on the ground at the end of the quarter. They've done a great job of managing the portfolio in this difficult environment after September 11th. The rest of the segment was about flat in a --in a very tough rental market. 

 Specialty insurance -- next segment. You can see down 13 percent, more than all attributable to the decline in ERC on a year-over-year basis. Employers' reinsurance was down 45 percent, consistent with our expectations. The team has taken approved pricing, we've used that to pay in additional retrocession covers to reduce volatility, and also to strengthen our reserves. 

 The earnings impact of the higher retrocession costs for the quarter was about 40 million higher than last year in the first quarter. And investment income was lower in the quarter as we had a lot of assets we held in cash as we anticipate paying claims related to the World Trade Center tragedy. Previous loss estimates related to the WTC event have not changed, and the business is on track for what we communicated they'd do for the total year. 

 Mortgage insurance is down 19 percent, principally as a result of policy lapses from the recent surge in mortgage refinancing. And higher retrocession costs we have on some of the new policy volume. And in other specialty -- that increase is driven by the absence of cost we have this year related to our mortgage services business which we sold in the fourth quarter of 2000 and still had some costs in the first quarter of 2001. 

 GE Capital (inaudible) was favorable, about 75 million on lower GE Capital corporate expenses, from good costs out, treasury costs, and other performance in our fixed clothes and sales segments. So overall up to 18 percent, again up eight if you exclude goodwill and if you exclude the impact of ERC and Americom, up 18 on the rest of the portfolio, so a pretty good performance. 

 Now I'm going to shift a talk a little bit about 2002, and the outlook. First page that's up here is our short cycle orders in the U.S. Our (inaudible) percent in short cycle, that's acquisitions, you can see is down two, and total for the quarter on the short cycle piece of the company. Improving in terms of less negative, still got pretty tough comparisons in the first quarter of last year. 

 You can see that plastics is flat in the quarter in terms of short cycle orders, and that's a big improvement versus down 25 percent or plus all year last year. Appliances continue to have a good quarter, up 11. And industrial systems down 12, you can see that they were impacted later by the slowing economy as they filled out the projects they had in the backlog, and we haven't really seen them pick up yet, and haven't seen signs of any additional industrial capacity life in the -- in the industrial systems business. So Q1 was definitely tougher than we expected, we do have some signs of improvement, and I'll -- and I'll show you those. 

 The next chart we're going to load up here is our global short cycle orders for Europe and Asia. Here it is. You can see there's a similar trend, negative in Europe about ten percent in dollar terms, on local currency down seven. You can see on the bottom, so less negative than it's been, but still down. And in Asia down four percent. It's actually up six percent local currency terms, and then down four in dollars. So again, some signs of strengthening globally. 

 Next I'm going to talk about the two of our short cycle businesses that we think we will see something in the economy earliest. On the left side is plastics, a couple indicators -- March order volume, physical volume rates, were up 21 percent across all three poles. So we're getting physical volume across all the segments. The end markets, except for business equipment were all firming, so pretty good breadth, and it's a brutal, tough pricing environment. So the indicator for me is in the first quarter of 2002 we actually grew our backlog with these volume order rates about 36 percent. Last year in the first quarter we were still eating into the backlog, as we went through the quarter. So, you know there's no definite sign that I'd say the economy's completely recovering here, but we are seeing physical order volume in our plastics business which is a good sign of early recovery. 

 The right side is NBC. And just want to show you the scatter price versus the upfront. We sell about 75 percent of our advertising inventory in the upfront markets, and the other 25 percent we sell in the scatter. You can see all of 2001 the scatter was below the upfront, in the first quarter it was below only slightly, down two, and what we're seeing right now in the second quarter is scatter price moving up about six percent over the upfront. And advertising interest is starting to pick, I think you've seen that from other media companies talking about this. So, we do have some momentum, and we are encouraged by that. 

 Now I'm going to shift to the long cycle, and get the chart loaded up here. Our long cycle continues to have a very strong backlog, 44.8 billion at the end of the quarter. Power systems is 27 five, very strong backlog. On the right side you can see our rolling B's (ph) in service, up 13 percent, excluding aircraft, so power, medical, transportation continue up very strong service businesses. And total service including the impact of aircraft engine up five. So the backlog is still strong, and service, ex aircraft, continues double-digit growth. And as I said, aircraft's got a little improvement in the first quarter over the fourth quarter. 

 Here's a look at services. The contractual service agreement commitment, we had a target for the year of $65 billion for the total commitments. At the end of the first quarter we're already at $63 billion so we've had tremendous performance. You saw some of the highlights in the press release. The service revenue in power's up 19, we added about a billion five of new CSA agreements. 

 Aircraft engines, a good long-term service agreement that they go during the quarter, and as I said the (inaudible) order rate is improving over the fourth quarter, up 15 percent. And transportation continues to have tremendous success in the service business with long-term contract wins for parts and overall to several customers. So securing our long-term growth for these long-term customer service agreements, contractual service agreements is a real priority for us, and we've had very good execution. 

 Next chart I'm going to get up here is GE Capital assets. I already showed this chart, up 15 percent. But I think if you want to think about 2002 and the environment, you know, the way we think about it is you've got to have the assets in place to create the earnings growth. And we do have those assets in place both from core growth as I mentioned and acquisitions. And that asset growth is going to give us the positioning we need as we grow our earnings in 2002 for the total year. 

 Now I said I'd give a little more detail about the business development activity in the quarter. This is a chart to summarize the deals that we've done. The left side is the industrial deals, the right side is the capital deals. You can see that we closed several deals on the industrial side, interlogics (ph) in the industrial systems business. LMP (ph) in plastics, many acquisitions in medical, some smaller ones there. The PII (ph) group and Bentley (inaudible) and power systems. 

 Those deals that we closed, the purchases cost us $2.1 billion, you can see in the takeaway. A billion seven with cash and $400 million with stock. And the first year impact, so 12 months after the close of these deals on the results of the General Electric company would be about a billion four growth in sales, and $200 million growth in margin. And that'll split obviously now between 2002 and 2003. 

 And then we have several pending deals that are announced, and we're working on getting closed. The first year impact of those deals when we close will be $2.5 billion of revenue, and a half a billion dollars in margin. 

 Over on the right side you can see the same thing for the Capital deals. We didn't have as many as deals close in the quarter, we still have a number of deals that are pending that are announced, and we will close. One that's not on the chart should be is real estate security capital. So about two billion of assets closed in the quarter, and pending about five plus billion of assets. And we'll continue to give this detail every quarter. We do a press release on every acquisition, and we'll continue to put that information out for you. 

 So in the wrap up here, (inaudible) GE works. We did consistent excellent earnings growth because we've got a terrific set of franchises, core number one positions in these businesses. We drive our initiatives, global vision, services, six segment of digitization to increase our earnings. And we've got a strong balance sheet that allows us to capitalize on change. And you've seen the results last year and the total year earnings up 11, this year up 17 in the quarter. This portfolio diversity and execution on the initiatives is what's driving these financial results. 

 And the final chart that I'd like to put up here is just a chart that we've used with the analyst community, investment community since December. Let me get it loaded up, here you go. There's no change from December, here's the profile of our earnings by short cycle, long cycle and capital. 

 From operations, we'll get about 13 to 14 percent earnings growth. We get about four points of lift from the two non-cash changes, not having goodwill amortization, and lowering our pension earnings growth rate assumption, for the reported up 17 to 18 percent. And no change to our total year guidance of $1.65 to $1.67. 

 So, that's a lot of information, additional information we think about the quarter and how we performed. And what we'd like to do is open this up and get some Q&A. Rich if you and David could get some questions we'd be glad to take them. We'll try and take a couple of questions, and then our investor relations team and our press team will clearly be available, as they always have been, for any type of additional information that we need to give out today. So... 

 RICHARD WACKER: David can you ... 

 KEITH SHERIN: David, yes can you open up the phones then. 

 OPERATOR: Yes sir. At this time I would like to remind everyone if you would like to ask a question, press star, then the number one on your telephone keypad. Please limit yourself to one question, and one follow-up. Your first question comes from Jeff Sprague (ph) of Salomon Smith Barney. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE (ph), SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Two questions. First I guess, Keith can you put power maybe into a little more context relative to short cycle as we look out into Q2 and Q3, and really the gist of my question is obviously the earnings delta in power was extraordinarily large relative to the contribution from rest of the things in the industrial portfolio. 

 So the market, I think, you know, remains a little uneasy about, you know, how that gap gets filled as we start to swing the other way. And certainly the comments on plastics were encouraging, and I was wondering specifically on plastics, could you reconcile that comment about up 21 percent in March, relative to the order numbers you put up that didn't seem to quite show that. The 21 percent was around all three poles, but maybe you could just clarify that? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, Jeff, thanks for the question. 

 First, in terms of power systems, we did have a tremendous quarter, both in terms of deliveries, in terms of service growth. But you also saw we had terminations, which contributed and what we expect for the year in power is to be on track for the deliveries we've said, you know, in the 280 to 300 unit range. We haven't had any additional new communications with customers, really most of the turmoil happened in the first quarter, with the large IPPs working on their capital funding capability. 

 And so we had a strong quarter in (inaudible) in power systems in the first quarter, we anticipate having another great quarter in the second quarter, and the total year will be up terrific as we've outlined. So power is going to contribute and continue to contribute very strongly out of the total growth in the year, and that's kind of the way we planned it. 

 Now when you look, we're going to have to have earnings growth obviously in the short cycle when we go into 2003 to be able to offset that power earnings growth. But right now from what we see, we don't have any changes to that profile. We think we have plenty of good operating capability in those short cycle businesses. We've continued to lower our costs with digitization, and we're -- you know, we're ready if we do get some more economic activity in 2003 to have that power of the earnings growth while power systems changes. 

 And we also have services, obviously. We have globalization and we have digitization in the rest of the portfolio. So you know, I don't think it's really different than we've expected, power obviously is the largest earnings growth driver. 

 The second plan I do want to clarify on the plastics, I've got order volume rates. You know, that has -- offset -- is offset by the current pricing, which we have said is a double-digit down ... 

 JEFF SPRAGUE (ph): OK. 

 KEITH SHERIN: ... very tough pricing environment. So thanks for that clarification. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE (ph): And a -- and if I could just have a follow on medical. You know, the -- I guess the product transition disruption or pause in the market is maybe a little bit bigger than we've seen in the past. The company has had, you know, a tremendous amount of new product introductions over the last couple of years that have driven, you know, the strength in the share gain. Is there something in particularly different here that's causing the market to pause and wait for the products? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I'm not -- I'm not sure if there's something new or different. I think, you know, our teams had a tremendous result last year in the fourth quarter. I think hospitals, you know, they have a difficult operating environment as well. They may be looking at their timing of capital spending. And we -- you know, we feel great about it based on the orders we got, and I think it's just principally timing in the quarter on the deliveries of those two product lines. And we've got to -- you know, we've got to demonstrate that obviously as we execute in the second, third and fourth quarter for you. 

 But we haven't seen anything that I would say is a -- other than normal in that medical market. I mean you're just going to have some obviously volatility quarter to quarter in all these businesses. But we haven't seen anything that we would say changes our outlook for the total year, and the -- and the tremendous success that we expect out of the medical business over the medium and long term. 

 JEFF SPRAGUE (ph): Great, thanks. I'll ... 

 KEITH SHERIN: Great. Thanks, (inaudible). 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Tarun Conna (ph) of Wellington Management. 

 TARUN CONNA (ph), WELLINGTON MANAGEMENT: Thanks. Just on the question about plastics. I know you talked about instituting a price increase, and I'd just be curious to know, you know, how that's taking in the marketplace. And the second question just deals with the progress payments. 

 As we look ahead the next four to six quarters, you know, what exactly are we going to see on the cash flow statement as far as those progress payments go, you know, are they essentially going to zero, or maybe you can shed some light on that? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure Tyrone (ph), you know first, in terms of plastics, I'm not going to go into any details on pricing actions the business is taking, but in this environment it's something that we're working on obviously. It's going to have to be something we'll report as the results come in. 

 On the second question, on progress payments, if you look, we do expect to have the progress balances decline as we continue to deliver these backlogs in gas turbines. And I think the way to think about it is, as we deliver those backlogs and new orders are less than the output that we have, progress will go down. 

 I'd say over the next two years, you know, we're going to see progress go down to a couple billion dollar level which would be kind of a, more of a structural level we'll have, based on our power systems business and our aircraft engine business. So, we do fully plan to have power -- progress payments go down this year. And it's in all our planning and cash flow assumptions, and capital modeling. 

 TARUN CONNA (ph): Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thanks Tyrone (ph). 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from John Inch (ph) of Bear Stearns. 

 JOHN INCH (ph), BEAR STEARNS: Thank you. The first question -- this may be, have already been answered, but, how much was service as a percent of the company's industrial sales, and how much did it grow in the quarter? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Let me get you a good number on that John. What's your second question? I guess that's the main question. 

 JOHN INCH (ph): No, the second question was, I guess Entergy this morning announced a curtailment of their Cap-X, associated with turbine cancellations, previously with you guys. I'm just wondering, are we still sort of in the ballpark for 209 unit shipments in 2003 for GE Power? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Let me say that we haven't changed any of our estimates about the '02 and the '03 large gas turbine delivery units, which I think is what you're referring to. 

 JOHN INCH (ph): Correct. 

 KEITH SHERIN: So, we don't have any changes to that. Now again, you know as we go through and discuss with customers the timing of when they're going to take these units, '02, '03, '04 terminations, implicit push outs, we'll continue to give you updates, you know, our next update on that will be probably May 8th at the Electrical Products Group conference, where we'll give you another view into the details of the power systems backlog. Total services on the industrial side were about $4.2 billion. Up about one percent in the quarter, year over year. Aircraft's the principal driver down on that. 

 JOHN INCH (ph): Great. Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: OK, thanks John. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Sheila McCaughey (ph) of Morgan Stanley. 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph), MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Hi Sheila (ph). 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): Hi. I was wondering if you could give us a sense, going back to power, the impact on the profit line from the contract terminations. I think you said it was 476 from a ... 

 KEITH SHERIN: In ... 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): ... revenue standpoint. Can you give us some indication of how much of that falls to the profit line? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Sure, sure. The revenue number we put out was 476 we have in operating profits. So after the costs of those, you know, the terminations that we have to pull down, and the material we have to write off -- I want to get you a good number. About 320 in operating profit ... 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): (inaudible) 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yeah, 326 million in operating profit in the results that we have in the power segment this quarter, Shelia (ph). 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): So almost half of profit was really driven by the termination of the contract? 

 KEITH SHERIN: It's about two cents a share. 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): OK. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Yes. 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): And is that something that we're going to -- I mean are we going to see more termination amounts in the second quarter? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Right now our expectation is, this is obviously the largest amount and number of terminations for the year. We're obviously going to continue to work with our customers, but I don't anticipate anything as high as this for the rest of the year. 

 SHEILA MCCAUGHEY (ph): OK, great. Thank you very much. 

 KEITH SHERIN: You're welcome, Shelia (ph). Thanks. 

 OPERATOR: Your next question comes from Martin Sanky (ph) of Goldman Sachs. 

 MARTIN SANKY (ph), GOLDMAN SACHS: OK, I have two questions. First would be a follow-up on Shelia's (ph) question regarding terminations. Clearly there's -- determinations in some respects represent a forward moving of profit that you had expected on said deliveries. Do we see a backlash over the next couple of quarters as the underlying deliveries are cancelled? Or do you resell some of the white tails and get an extra profit? Or do we see other affects due to restructurings that you're going to initiate as the -- as the delivery -- as production schedules move down? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, Martin, we're going to -- I think the way I'd say this is look, I don't know what the collateral affects are you're talking about exactly. I mean I don't -- I don't anticipate that this is going to have any change to our forecast for the power systems business for the year. As you said, you know, it's either most of these will be '03, '04 terminations, so they're not something we're dealing with for this year, and they're also things that we've already factored into our total planning, both for our earnings forecast and also our capacity. 

 Now we are going to, obviously after we deliver the record number of turbines in the second quarter, we're going to be looking at starting to restructure the business. And we've already factored that into our planning as well, so I think these things are consistent with what we've planned on, and they're factored into our thinking about both our earnings growth and our restructuring needs that we're going to need to resize the business based on the demand that we're going to have in a more normal market for those gas turbine units. Does that help? 

 MARTIN SANKY (ph): I think it does. My real question is, healthcare IT, you talked quite a bit about what's been happening with the equipment side ... 

 KEITH SHERIN: No. 

 MARTIN SANKY (ph): ... but what's happening on the software and services operation in medical? 

 KEITH SHERIN: I think the orders were strong, they did meet their operating profit targets for the quarter, Greg Lucier (ph) and his team. And they really feel great about the outlook for the total year. So they, we were out there, we had an operating review with them Monday, they had, they have a very good product line, they think the lifeline of opportunities is very robust, you know, the projects are getting bigger as hospitals, you know, implement total radiology information systems, and pac systems and the team's got a terrific product line, and they feel pretty good. So we had a good quarter there. 

 MARTIN SANKY (ph): OK. Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: All right Martin. And we'll take one more question here, and then we'll open it up the rest of the day with Joanne (ph) and Rich and the press team. 

 OPERATOR: Your next ... 

 KEITH SHERIN: Can we take one more? 

 OPERATOR: Yes sir. Your next question comes from Sy Lund (ph) of J.P. Morgan. 

 SY LUND (ph), J.P. MORGAN: Morning guys. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Hi Sy (ph). 

 SY LUND (ph): Just have a quick question on Employers Re actually. There have been a number of published reports on the potential spin-off of the operations. I'm just wondering how we should view Employers Re within your portfolio on a go forward basis? 

 KEITH SHERIN: Well, you know, I'm not going to comment about any rumors or speculation about what's going to happen with ERC. I've given you a pretty good update about where we are in the quarter and how we feel about it for the year. I can tell you Ron Pressman (ph) and that team are doing an excellent job of operating that business. And, you know, we meet with them every month, with an operating review and we're really impressed with everything they're doing on disciplines in underwriting, and pricing, and risk management, and so you know, the team's operating very well, and they're meeting our expectations for what we have for 2002. And that'll be my only comment I'd make about ERC. 

 SY LUND (ph): OK, great. Thank you. 

 KEITH SHERIN: Thank you. 

 UNIDENTIFIED: OK. So thanks very much for the time, we hope this was helpful. We've tried to provide a lot of information in expanding on what we've provided with the press release in the past. As Keith mentioned, a lot of the schedules will be up on the web when you go to www.ge.com/investor. You will also this afternoon be able to get access to the replay of this call, and as always, Joanna Morris and Rich Wacker are available at your service to go through any other questions you have in any detail. You can also e-mail us through the Web site. And, you know, we'll get on with the normal part of following up with all of you on the -- on the results of the quarter. And we look forward to hearing from you. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you for participating in today's General Electric conference call. This call will be available for replay beginning at 12 noon Eastern Standard Time today through 11:59 p.m. Eastern Standard Time on April 18th, 2002. The conference ID number for the replay is 3740470. Again that conference ID number for the replay is 3740470. The number to dial for the replay is 1-800-642-1687, or for international 706-645-9291. Thank you again for participating, you may now disconnect. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
gnelc : General Electric Company
   IN
i8396 : Diversified Holding Companies | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4b002u8
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=general and hd=electric not hd=event and co=ge not hd=portland
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
44
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:54 AM GMT
  
