 
•	 Q1 2017 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q2 2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q1 2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Q4 2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q3 2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
•	  Abstract of Q2 2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q1  2017 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,097 words
   PD
20 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's first quarter fiscal year 2017 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.

On our website, Microsoft.com/investor, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provide the reconciliation and differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call.

The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company's first quarter performance, in addition to the impact that these items and events had on the financial results.

Additionally, any mention of operating expenses refers to segment operating expenses, as defined in the footnotes of our Form 10-Q, which includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but excludes the impact of integration and restructuring charges.

All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We also provide growth rates in constant currency, when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations.

During Q1, we provided an update to our key investor metrics for fiscal 2017. We provide these additional metrics to enhance our financial reporting results and provide transparency into our progress against our strategic imperative. We introduced three new metrics: commercial cloud gross margin percentage; total gaming revenue; and Windows commercial product and cloud services revenue growth. We will be referencing these metrics throughout the commentary today, and you can see them in our published KPIs on the IR website.

We'll post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website until October 20, 2017.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris, and thanks to everyone on the phone for joining. Today I will share the results for the first quarter and discuss how we are innovating into growing each of our segments. Overall, we are off to a good start in FY17. We delivered $22.3 billion in revenue this quarter, an increase of 5% in constant currency. I am proud of the continued progress.

Our platforms are leading profound digital transformation outcomes for both people and organizations. At our IT conference, Ignite, I talked about how we are innovating in AI across the entire tech stack, and how AI will be infused into everything we do. To accelerate our innovation, we've created a dedicated organization to focus on artificial intelligence.

As I turn to progress we made by segment this quarter, I will highlight how these investments we're making in AI fuel innovation across all of our ambitions. Let's start with Productivity and Business Process. We're helping people be more productive by bringing intelligence to familiar office apps they use every day.

We recently introduced cloud-powered intelligence within Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and Outlook that uses machine learning and advanced natural language processing to help automate tasks, surface related content and connections, focus your inbox, and more easily create compelling content. We are also building intelligence into our apps to provide advanced security for customers.

This quarter we announced Office 365 Threat Intelligence, which analyzes billions of signals across Office, Azure, Windows, and external data sources to give customers broad visibility into attack trends and proactively recommend security policy adjustments. We're extending intelligence to compliance with our new Data Governance service, which helps customers achieve organizational compliance and automate data retention. These advancements are part of our ongoing commitment to strengthen security for our Office 365 E5 customers.

We are seeing broad momentum with customers across enterprises, small business, and consumers. Monthly active users of Office 365 commercials are now over 85 million, up more than 40% year over year. Office 365 commercial seats were also up 40% year over year and revenue up 54% in constant currency.

Across industries customers such as eBay; European airline, EasyJet; global pharmaceutical company Allergan; the Fortune 100 companies like the energy leader Exelon and Liberty Mutual Insurance, are choosing Office 365 to help make their employees more productive and secure. Customers love the power of Office on any device. We now have more than 45 million Outlook monthly active devices on iOS and Android, a more than 70% increase year over year.

Last week we unveiled a new class of purpose-built, intelligent apps in Dynamics 365, designed to remove any impedance that exists between productivity, collaboration, and business process. Using advanced analytics and machine learning, these new apps glean insights from previously siloed data to transform how people work across finance, sales, marketing, and customer service. They monitor customer relationship help, reveal connections, forecast demand, and predict risk.

And the deep integration with Office 365 makes it easy to take action, communicate, and collaborate in real-time or schedule a follow-up. Our innovations in Dynamics 365 build on our existing momentum. Dynamics CRM Online paid seats more than doubled year over year, and customers increasingly prefer our cloud solutions, with more than 70% of the new Dynamics CRM and ERP enterprise customers choosing Dynamics online.

Companies like HP Inc. are replacing their existing CRM systems with Dynamics 365 to take advantage of the built-in intelligence in our latest release and transform engagement with customers and partners. Overall, we are well-positioned to compete and grow our share in this large and growing market.

Now let's talk about the progress we are making in our Intelligent Cloud segment. Customers continue to choose the Microsoft Cloud to help transform their businesses and organizations. Our commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate now exceeds $13 billion, and we remain on track to achieve our goal of $20 billion in fiscal year 2018. Once enterprise customers choose one of our cloud services, they continue to adopt more services.

More than 60% of the Fortune 500 now have at least three of our cloud offerings, up 20 points year over year. And as with last quarter, we continue to grow our commercial annuity mix which is now at 88%.

Customers choose Microsoft for three reasons. They want a trusted, global, hyper-scale cloud provider to meet the enterprise-grade needs. They want hybrid support that is architected into both the hyper-scale service and the cloud servers. They want higher level services to help them build their own digital capability, inclusive of dev-ops, productivity, new IoT and Enterprise App development, advanced analytics, and machine learning and AI capability. These differentiated features are leading our cloud infrastructure growth.

Azure revenue, once again, grew triple-digits, 121% in constant currency, with Azure compute usage more than doubling year over year. We continue to invest in and expand our datacenter footprint, which now totals 38 regions including the announcement of our planned expansion into France and the recent opening of data centers in the United Kingdom and Germany.

Enterprises like Renault-Nissan Alliance, AccorHotels, as well as public sector customers such as the United Kingdom Ministry of Defense, the Ireland's Health Services Executive, are choosing Azure to transform their organizations while meeting European data sovereignty, security, and compliance needs. Security and compliance remain paramount for enterprise customers. Azure is already the most trusted, most compliant cloud, with 49 certifications, more than any other cloud provider.

And our US government cloud has the highest number of certifications and dedicated data center regions in the industry to meet the stringent requirements of our public sector customers. We are applying AI to security with the new Azure Security Center, which leverages advanced analytics and machine learning to detect threats and help enterprise customers respond with comprehensive cybersecurity and management.

Looking beyond infrastructure services, across industries, customers like Daimler Trucks North America, Uber, and Lowe's are using Azure's intelligent services to build powerful new offerings for their customers. More than half of the Fortune 500 have our Enterprise Mobility services, up more than 20 points year over year.

This quarter, we released a premium version of our Enterprise Mobility service that includes advanced security management for SaaS applications, automatic document classification and encryption, advanced identity protection, and we crossed 3/4 of a billion unique user identities in Azure Active Directory. This quarter, we announced a number of key partnerships. Adobe and SAP recognize Azure's leadership in the cloud and are bringing their industry-leading marketing and human resource solutions to our platform, giving our mutual customers powerful new ways to transform their business.

Customers and developers are also choosing Azure for its openness. Enabling digital transformation for everyone means supporting the widest range of platforms, frameworks, and tools. This quarter we announced that we open-sourced Windows PowerShell, our industry-leading infrastructure management tool, and made it available on Linux. We continue to see strong interest in the preview for SQL server on Linux with 19,000 customers registered, including more than half of the Fortune 500.

It's opening conversations with customers, spanning their entire data estate, both on premise and in the cloud. Azure's service fabric on Linux enables developers to build and manage high scale microservices and cloud applications. And we announced that our new FPGA-powered platform in Azure, capable of exascale compute, will support Caffe, TensorFlow, Torch, and our own CNTK frameworks for Deep Learning.

Finally, we're building our server products to become the edge of our cloud to support true hybrid computing. The new Windows Server 2016 gives IT professionals new layers of security and brings Azure- inspired innovation for infrastructure and cloud applications. And we extend our partnership with Docker to make the commercially-supported Docker Engine available to Windows 2016 customers at no additional cost.

Now let's talk about More Personal Computing, where we are also seeing intelligence transform Windows 10 and our ecosystem of devices. We now have more than 400 million monthly active devices on Windows 10 and nearly 200 billion hours of usage. And we are expanding our growth opportunities for Windows with enterprises and in areas such as gaming.

Last quarter, I outlined three aspects of our Windows strategy. First, deliver more value and innovation, particularly for enterprise customers. Second, grow new monetization through services across a unified Windows platform. Third, innovate in new device categories in partnership with our OEMs. Let me talk through the progress we are making in each.

This quarter, we released Windows 10 Anniversary Update, with advanced security features including Windows Defender Threat Protection, a cloud-enabled service that helps enterprises detect, investigate, and respond to advanced network attacks. And with threat intelligence sharing capabilities, we enable IT to investigate and respond to security threats across Windows 10 and Office 365.

Our advancements in security helped to drive a 3X increase in Windows 10 enterprise deployments over the last six months. The growth in customer adoption is also driving increased developer, search, and Cortana engagement. The number of developers building and updating Universal Windows apps is up 3X year over year. More than 1,000 applications have been developed using the Cortana API, and Windows 10 Cortana search box now has 141 million monthly active users, with almost 13 billion questions asked to date.

Gaming is a leading driver of engagement on Windows 10 and opens up new experiences and scenarios across Windows devices. For the past three consecutive months, Xbox One has been the number-one selling console in the United States, giving us strong momentum heading into the holiday season.

Our highly engaged Xbox Live fan base continues to grow across Windows 10, iOS, and Android, up 21% year over year, and we have more than 20 billion hours of gameplay on Windows 10 PCs and tablets, a more than 500% increase year over year. Our commitment to grow Xbox Live community led us to acquire Beam this quarter, an innovative and interactive livestreaming service that gives viewers the ability to watch and play along with their favorite game in real time.

Finally, let's talk about our progress in new device categories. Surface continues to drive category growth, and more commercial customers are choosing to deploy Surface, with deals of 500 devices or more increasing 70% year over year. And we are reaching more commercial customers of all sizes with the support of our channel partners.

The Windows Holographic Platform and Microsoft HoloLens are opening up new, differentiated opportunities on Windows. This quarter we made Microsoft HoloLens Development Edition available to all developers and business customers in the US and Canada, and last week we expanded our presence to six additional markets.

Enterprise customers like Audi, Volvo, Japan Airlines, and the PGA Tour are all embracing Microsoft HoloLens to transform the way they work and create new mixed reality experiences for customers. It's still early, but it's great to see the innovation and creativity that developers are bringing to the platform. And coming in 2017, we will enable our hardware partners to deliver entirely new, mixed-reality experiences with Windows Holographic and on Windows 10.

In closing, we are leading digital transformation across all industries and geographies, creating enormous opportunity for Microsoft and our partners. As we infuse AI into all of our computing platforms and experiences, we will drive even greater transformational value for our customers. In the coming weeks, I'm looking forward to sharing news about our new innovation in Windows 10 and Office 365. Now let me hand it over to Amy to walk through this quarter's results in more detail and share our outlook, and I look forward to rejoining you after for questions.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter revenue was $22.3 billion, up 3% and 5% in constant currency. Gross margin was flat and up 2% in constant currency. Operating income was flat and grew 4% in constant currency, and earnings per share was $0.76, increasing 9%, or 13% in constant currency.

I'm pleased with the strong execution we saw in the first quarter from our sales teams and the partner ecosystem across both our commercial and consumer businesses. Across most markets, our results were in line with macroeconomic trends, with strength in key markets like the US, Western Europe, and Japan. Momentum and cloud services contributed to a total commercial annuity mix of 88%, up 2 points from the prior year.

We again saw higher-than-expected transactional deal volume, primarily driven by Office commercial products in our small and mid-size business segment. This quarter, the dollar volume of annuity expirations was significantly larger than the prior year, and with solid renewals from that base, we grew our commercial bookings by 18%. The larger base also drove our contracted not billed balance to more than $25.5 billion. Strong execution resulted in better-than-expected commercial unearned revenue of $22.3 billion or an 8% increase in constant currency.

Our commercial cloud revenue run rate exceeded $13 billion this quarter, growing 59%. As I've shared previously, we expect our commercial cloud gross margin percentage to materially improve throughout the year. This quarter, our commercial cloud gross margin percentage was 49%, up 7 points sequentially, although we do expect variability from quarter to quarter. Importantly, gross margin dollars grew by 61% across the total commercial cloud.

Now to Company gross margin. Our Company gross margin was approximately 65%, down a little less than 2 points from the prior year, impacted by an increasing mix of commercial cloud revenue, slightly offset by improvements in More Personal Computing. The revenue performance in More Personal Computing largely drove COGS above our expectations.

This quarter, the FX impact on total and segment level revenue was in line with expectations. FX had a 2 point negative impact on Productivity and Business Processes and Intelligent Cloud results, and a 1 point negative impact on More Personal Computing results. Total operating expenses were flat and grew 1% in constant currency from investments supporting our commercial cloud. At the Company level, operating income grew 4% in constant currency.

Let's turn to each segment, where we can now discuss constant currency impact at the revenue and operating income levels. This quarter, our Productivity and Business Processes segment delivered results above our expectations, with approximately $6.7 billion in revenue, an increase of 6% and 8% in constant currency. In Office Commercial, revenue increased by 5% and 8% in constant currency, as Office 365 growth continued to outpace the shift from our on-premise business.

We again grew our installed base across all key workloads. In our Office 365 commercial business, our premium workload mix was above 60%. As mentioned earlier, our transactional results were higher than expected in the small- and mid-size customer segment and benefited from a stabilizing commercial PC market.

Office consumer revenue grew 8%, also 8% in constant currency, benefited from a stronger-than-expected consumer PC market, subscriber seat growth, and recurring subscription revenue. And our Dynamics business grew 11%, up 13% in constant currency, as customer preference for our cloud services and CRM Online and Dynamics AX contributed to billings and seat growth.

Segment gross margin dollars were flat, up 2% in constant currency. Segment gross margin percentage declined on an increasing cloud revenue mix. Operating expenses grew 2%, also 2% in constant currency, primarily driven by investments in cloud engineering. Operating income declined slightly, but was up 2% in constant currency.

The Intelligent Cloud segment delivered nearly $6.4 billion in revenue, above our expectations, and grew 8%, or 10% in constant currency. Server products and cloud services grew 11% and 13% in constant currency. Demand for our hybrid cloud offerings led to another quarter of double-digit annuity revenue growth within server products and cloud services, partially offset by a decline in our transactional, on-premise server business.

Server premium products grew double digits in constant currency. As expected, enterprise services revenue growth slowed this quarter to 1% and 2% in constant currency, largely due to a decreasing volume of support agreements associated with Windows Server 2003 end of support. Gross margin dollars grew 2% and 4% in constant currency, and segment gross margin percentage declined, primarily due to increasing cloud revenue mix, partially offset by significant improvement in Azure gross margin.

Given the growth opportunity in cloud, we increased our operating expenses by 21%, also 21% in constant currency, to fund cloud engineering, sales capacity, and developer engagement. Consequently, operating income declined 14% and 11% in constant currency.

Now to our final segment, More Personal Computing. Revenue was $9.3 billion, down 2% and 1% in constant currency, and better than expected across multiple businesses. First, our OEM results. Our total OEM business was flat this quarter, more in line with the PC market and better than we expected. OEM Pro revenue grew 1%, reflecting the stabilizing commercial PC market, particularly in the US.

OEM Non-Pro revenue declined by 1%, slightly ahead of the consumer PC market driven by a higher mix of premium devices. Channel inventory levels for OEM Pro and Non-Pro remained at normal levels. As Satya said, we're seeing strong growth in Windows 10 enterprise deployments.

The annuity portion of our Windows commercial business grew again in constant currency, as customers continued to commit to our differentiated security and management solutions. Overall, our total Windows commercial business revenue across small and mid-size businesses, enterprises, and academic institutions was flat, and grew 2% year over year in constant currency.

Patent licensing revenue increased this quarter, primarily due to favorable results in our annual contractual agreements. Our search business grew again this quarter, driven by rate and volume improvements in Bing. Though our growth rate has moderated, we continued to gain share and scale while delivering profit.

As expected, devices revenue declined this quarter. Revenue decreased 27%, down 25% in constant currency, due to Phone, where revenue declined 72% and 71% in constant currency. Surface revenue increased 38%, 39% in constant currency, driven by year-over-year growth for SurfacePro 4 and Book, which launched in Q2 of the prior year.

In gaming, revenue declined 5%, or 4% in constant currency, due to lower console hardware revenue. We continue to see strong engagement on our platform, with monthly active Xbox Live users up 21%. Our software and services revenue from console, PC, and other gaming devices grew 6%, or 8% in constant currency.

Segment gross margin dollars declined 1%, up 1% in constant currency, as decreases due to Xbox consoles and Phone were partially offset by our search and Surface results. Segment gross margin percentage improved slightly, given the revenue shift to higher margin products and services. Operating expenses decreased 13%, also 13% in constant currency, primarily based on reduced Phone spend and lower marketing spend, resulting in segment operating income growth of 26% and 31% in constant currency.

Now back to our Company results. We invested $2.3 billion in capital expenditures, a decline from Q4, but consistent with our plan for investment to support customer and partner demand for our commercial and consumer cloud services. During the quarter, we continued to rebalance our investment portfolio, which resulted in other income and expense of $100 million from net recognized gains on investments and income from dividends and interest, partially offset by interest expense.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 17% this quarter. As I've mentioned before, our income tax rate is impacted by three factors: the proportion of service revenue versus licensing revenue; the geographic mix of revenue; and the timing of equity vests. In our first quarter, equity vests impact the rate more significantly than in other quarters.

We returned $6.6 billion to shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends. We also raised our quarterly dividend by 8% to $0.39. With that overview of the quarter, let's turn to the outlook. My commentary for the upcoming quarter does not include LinkedIn. We still expect the transaction to close in the second quarter.

Turning to FX, we expect 1 point of revenue impact at both the total Company and individual segment levels. We expect our commercial business to remain healthy. Though we will still see and experience variability in our transactional business, we will also see strong annuity growth, driven by solid renewal execution and increasing customer adoption and use of our cloud services. Therefore, we expect commercial unearned revenue to be within the range of $21.05 billion to $21.25 billion.

Next on CapEx: we will continue to invest to meet growing demand and see quarterly variability in spend. We expect a sequential dollar increase in the upcoming quarter. For the full year, our total expected CapEx growth rate should be lower than FY16, given efficiency improvements.

Now let me share some additional thoughts for each segment. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue of $6.9 billion to $7.1 billion. We expect the ongoing transition to the cloud to drive installed base growth, with continuing declines in our transactional business. For the Intelligent Cloud segment, we expect revenue of $6.55 billion to $6.75 billion, driven by strong annuity growth across our server products and cloud services.

We anticipate that Enterprise Services revenue will decline due to lower volumes of Windows Server 2003 service agreements. We expect More Personal Computing revenue to be $11.2 billion to $11.6 billion. This segment is impacted by different trends than our other two segments, so some additional detail.

First, on Windows. We expect our OEM business and the underlying PC market to be closely aligned. As a reminder, in our OEM Pro business, we exited Q2 last year with a slightly higher level of inventory. We currently see normal inventory levels in the channel, which will dampen year-over-year growth a bit.

In Search, we expect Bing's revenue growth ex-TAC to be similar to Q1. Additionally, we expect that total Search revenue growth will slow considerably, as we pass the one-year anniversary of our Yahoo deal, and the associated change in revenue recognition. Phone revenue will continue to decline, and as we previously announced, we anticipate closing the sale of our feature phone business in Q2.

We expect Surface revenue to decline, as we anniversary the product launch from a year ago. And in Gaming, we expect strong share performance in key markets like the US and the UK this holiday, but overall revenue will decline, given lower price points and lower overall console units, as mix shifts towards Xbox One and Xbox One S. We expect continued active engagement growth on our gaming platform given the holiday season.

We expect COGS to be $9.7 billion to $9.9 billion, with variability driven by device sales. We expect operating expenses between $7.85 billion and $7.95 billion in Q2, and we remain on path for full-year operating expense of $31.1 billion to $31.4 billion. We expect other income and expenses to be $150 million, as we continue to balance gains on equity investments and income from interest and dividends against the interest expense and the net cost of hedging.

We continue to expect our full-year tax rate to be 20%, plus or minus 2 points, with variability due to the three factors discussed earlier. And with that, I'll turn it back to Chris for Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We will now move to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good afternoon. Satya, on Azure, the numbers were really impressive, given how hard the comp was. I'm curious if you could just help out, a little more color in terms of what you saw during the quarter, and maybe how some of the ticket sizes or size of these signs are changing from the past year? Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Brent. Overall, again, I go back to how we think about Azure. We really have a view of distributed computing, which is more expansive than just even our hyper-scale cloud. We think about Azure and our servers as one distributed computing fabric that they're building.

We also don't think of Office 365 and Dynamics 365 as independent; we think of them all together, building out our commercial cloud, because take one of the bigger growth areas we have in Azure, it is IoT. But it's not just people connecting sensors and collecting data.

They collect the data, they store the data, they analyze and do predictions on it. But then after you do predictions, you've got to do something about the predictions. So in many cases they choose to use, especially with the new Dynamics 365 field service module, automating field service.

So it is those higher-level scenarios that we are seeing in addition to the core infrastructure that supports hybrid that I think is accelerating, and that's something that obviously we didn't make the decision last quarter to do that.

This is a decision we made many, many years ago; in some sense, the inception of Azure was built for a future which is much more distributed computing done in a very different way than the client server era. I think we're just finally getting into the early innings of what is true hybrid computing, and it's good to see those in last quarter's results as well.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, guys, for taking the question, and very nice quarter. I want to zero in on Office 365 a little bit. 40% growth in commercial seats is a really nice number, but even a nicer number on the revenue line, I think 54% constant currency growth in Office 365 commercial. That seems to imply you guys are seeing some nice ASP increase as the platform matures. Can you talk to us about where we are in that cycle of guys moving from E1 to E3? Is E5 part of the equation yet; are guys actually moving there yet?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith. Why don't I take that one? When I talk about the premium services mix in our Office commercial 365 business being above 60%, that is what's driving, whether that's the mix shift to E3 or ultimately to E5, you will continue to see it have headroom in that number. But you are right, we are encouraged by the ARPU growth and the value proposition that has customers choosing the premium SKUs and continuing to choose those premium SKUs over time.

I don't really think about there being a cap on that when you think about the mix percentage. Because part of it is, as you know, not just adding the first few nodes in E3, it's continuing to add E5 and new scenarios over time that will continue to create. So hopefully that's helpful, but you are right, it is ARPU-driven, the performance outside of the 40% seat growth.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. Thank you, guys.

CHRIS SUH: We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you. Satya, I know that Brent asked you about Azure, but I'm just wondering if you could share with us, you mentioned that compute usage on Azure, I think you said more than doubled or nearly doubled, something to that effect. I'm just wondering if you could share with us how you see paths coming along and where do you think we are in getting the easier workloads to the cloud? And are you now starting to see the inflection, given we did see an inflection in growth on a year-over-year basis this quarter where you are starting to see significant production workloads that are on-premise actually starting to move over as well?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Heather. We definitely are seeing production workloads that are moving over from on-premise. But I think the more interesting thing, Heather, for us is to see new workloads. When I look at what's happening with [stage 6] some of the most innovative work we've done around distributed computing, which is service fabric, and how people are in fact going straight to building out, using our path services, some of the new hyper-scale cloud services using Micro Services.

And not only are they doing that, but we're also seeing great growth in our server-less infrastructure, which is Azure Functions. So I am actually as excited about new cloud growth from new cloud workloads from the same customers, so the most interesting thing that I am observing is that it could be the same model of customer that was participating with us in the client server area who are not just building or moving their IT, but they are building new digital services for hyper-scale. And that's what is probably unique in terms of what is changed year-over-year for us. It's not just the Silicon Valley startups anymore; it is the core enterprise that is also becoming a digital company. And we are well-positioned to serve them, and that's good to see.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you so much.

CHRIS SUH: We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Karl Keirstead, Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Question for Amy. The operating cash flow generation, $11.6 billion, was extraordinary. I don't think you've had a 50%-plus cash flow margin since early 2012. Is this a little bit of an anomaly, maybe driven by unearned revenues? Or is something changing in the business model that might change the rate of cash flow generation in coming quarters as well? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Karl, it is actually impacted by the same thing that impacted free cash flow this quarter, which is about a $1.3 billion unsettled cash -- a cash settlement impact. So you'll actually see that revert in Q2, although our free cash flow growth of 8% in the quarter was actually very good, and I do feel good about that. But I want to make sure you don't misunderstand the root cause that makes the number a bit of an anomaly.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Karl. We'll take the next one please.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Thank you, and congrats on the quarter. So want to drill in a little more. The margin for commercial cloud improved 7%, which given the size, is a large improvement. Can you give us some more details on what exactly is driving that margin improvement? You said it's going to be improving over the year, but how sustainable is that drive to improvement?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start, Mark, and then, Amy, you can add to it. Again, Mark, this goes back to a little bit of understanding, how we think about both CapEx as well as OpEx in terms of our cloud. The architectural design we have, for example, when we do CapEx, we are buying the equipment for everything that Microsoft does, which is everything from Azure to Office 365 to Dynamics 365, as well as our consumer services, like Xbox Live.

And you see the growth that we talked about across all of this. Then we have a very common platform, both for our first-party workloads, as well as our third-party business. And so then as we drive efficiency in our cloud infrastructure, when we for example use FPGA to get more out of our network, that's efficiency that we gain across the marginal cost and gross margin that spans everything that we do.

Then also what we think about as the mix, our goal is not just to sell commodity services, but to actually use commodity services, in some cases, as a bootstrap for higher-level services, because of things like data gravity. So there will be differences quarter to quarter. We may, in fact, onboard a few customers who first onboard a lot of storage at commodity service levels, and then later on start consuming some of the higher-level services.

So the margin improvement over a period of time is something that we are absolutely going to see, but for quarter-to-quarter there will be more volatility, but I would ask our investor base to think more about the architecture as well as the financial outlays of what we're building. We're not just building Azure; we're building Azure, Office 365, Dynamics 365, as well as our consumer services, which are all cloud-oriented. And it's the combination of that that's driving margin. But Amy, I will let you add to it.

AMY HOOD: I would say on terms of sustainability, or quarter to quarter, Satya is right. There is going to be variability. The variability is really two things. One is the pace of the mix shift to Azure. As it grows at the pace we've seen, it does impact quarter-to-quarter the overall commercial cloud revenue mix.

But I would also say the directionality of the Azure gross margin, for example, which we said significantly improved, we expect to continue, certainly over the course of this year, as we have discussed. So I think the directionality of sustainability is correct. And I think the variability could certainly occur for many of the reasons Satya has talked about.

MARK MOERDLER: Thanks. Appreciate it.

CHRIS SUH: We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Amy, I am wondering on the segment operating margins, I know you don't guide those per se, but you have flat performance in operating income in PBP and declines in IC with growth in MPC. Do you expect to see, as we get towards the end of the year, that the two enterprise cloud segments move positive and MPC is not as much of a driver? How should we think about the evolution of the product contribution of the three segments over the year?

AMY HOOD: Sure. I am actually going to cover our commercial segments as one. Because really, when you think about the commercial cloud, it's really about capturing the opportunity of selling more complete solutions, which include Dynamics and Office, plus some components of Azure which is, I think, really the trend you'll see us talk about from here on out. So what I would say is, you will continue to see us focus on gross margin improvement, and we've talked about that.

You will also continue to see us invest where we see massive market addressable expansion with sales capacity as well. So I think we have pivoted dollars to invest in that opportunity. You will continue to see us do that. But we also expect revenue growth and gross margin growth to come out of that investment.

So I do believe that's the continued pace you will see us on, and we feel good about the ROI of the investments we have made, especially in those commercial segments. In MPC, I generally expect you will continue to see improvement through the year, just based on the mix of products that we will have over the course of the year. That's not new.

You saw the same mechanism last year through the year as we pivot from our phone business to some of our higher-margin products. And so, I suspect you will see a similar pattern on a similar desire by Satya and I to continue to invest toward growth, especially on the commercial side.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Walter.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Murphy, JPMorgan.

MARK MURPHY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. I will add my congratulations. So, Amy, you are reporting an impressive buildup of the long-term deferred revenue; it's up 162% year-over-year. At the same time, some of your partners feel that you are gradually doing away with the three-year EAs that have existed for so long, and that you are replacing them with the MPSA vehicle, which is a little more flexible in terms of length of contract, and there could be some shorter lengths.

Could you help us in terms of how to think through the long-term deferred revenue buildup as you do start to mix over to the MPSAs?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark. Let me break apart that long-term unearned balance a bit. I do really focus, and I think it's important if you're trying to understand the buildup of our commercial business to focus only on the unearned commercial balance. Our overall long-term unearned balance has been impacted by the Windows 10 deferral over the past bit. And so, it can make a bit of a distraction towards seeing the underlying trend.

That being said, our commercial unearned balance has seen good growth; I'm proud of our performance this quarter, both sequentially and year-over-year. If you think about any change we're making or not, in our partner agreements, our customer agreements, we still do generally rely the vast majority on three-year agreements. So whether or not the term were to change, given how we recognize revenue, I would you let know if it was going to be material. And I do not expect the change you are talking about to be material in any way on the commercial unearned balance.

MARK MURPHY: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We will go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays Bank.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking my question, and congrats as well. Quick question more on an industry theme for Satya. We obviously saw a very interesting answer from AWS and VMware, which seems to suggest a hybrid cloud is the way forward, and both vendors have to react. Can you talk a little bit about your customer feedback around the hybrid cloud offering from you, and how your customer is thinking about that working with you together? Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Raimo. I spoke to this a little earlier, because in some sense, from day one we had this vision of how we want to build for a future of distributed computing that included our hyper-scale cloud service, which is Azure. And in fact, Azure is built on hyper-V, and we always said that we were going to build our server as the edge of our hyper-scale cloud, and so that's what Windows Server 2016 represents. That is what SQL Server 2016 represents, and so we have these unique capabilities, like being able to stretch even a single table in a database in SQL 2016 all the way to the cloud for having infinite table capacity, and then having your apps and queries work.

How we're doing containers: for example, in Windows Server 2016, we have great container support, as well as support for things like our Service Fabric, so that people can have absolute application portability, and in fact, people can even tier applications. We have had many customers who tier their storage and compute across a hybrid backplane. So this is an architectural design point that we have built for from the ground up from day one, and it's good to see people validating it now and elsewhere, and we will take that as a validation of something that we thought of a long time ago.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Raimo. We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, BofA Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Satya, can you just compare and contrast AWS versus Azure, Azure versus AWS from a standpoint of the technology footprint that you are offering both these companies? And Amy, if you could just comment on the margin structure of your Azure business relative to AWS, and if you have time, talk about the Windows 10 cycle. Why is it going to be the best Windows 10 cycle for the enterprise, compared to the previous cycle? Thank you so much.

SATYA NADELLA: Kash, I would say I talked about the reasons, the three big reasons why customers choose our cloud, and our cloud infrastructure in particular. One, it is about the hybrid design point that is at the core of how we are built, both Azure as well as our servers. It is because of the higher-level services that we have.

It is also because of the design point we have around not just Azure, but as well as Dynamics 365 and Office 365, and the extensibility of our cloud services across all three of them. And that's really the fundamental reasons why customers choose us. The other thing I would mention is, we have more of a commitment, I would say, which has been there from a long time, to build out a global footprint. We have more regions than anyone. We have more certifications than anyone in terms of adhering to both regulated industry, as well as digital sovereignty needs.

We've done unique things. We're the only public cloud provider, for example, that operates in China. We operate in Germany under German law. And that matters to multinational companies that also are trying to operate across many geographies and jurisdictions. So those are our core attributes that are driving our growth, and we'll continue to stay focused on them.

AMY HOOD: In terms of the gross margin question, I feel very good to talk about this quarter, about our improvement year-over-year and remain confident that we are heading in the right direction. And so, I think when you think about that plus the breadth of our offerings, I think we're pretty confident.

I will take the opportunity, because we haven't been asked about Windows 10 in the enterprise. I think we are encouraged by the pace of deployment, the number of proof-of-concepts, and actually some of the stability we've seen in the commercial PC market, in terms of starting to see some refresh rates. So I think overall, I think we will continue to watch, but our security and management value prop, I think really is paying off.

KASH RANGAN: Thanks so much.

CHRIS SUH: You bet. We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much, and congrats from me as well. Satya, I actually had a question for you on SQL Server. As you think about the port to Linux, I wonder if you can provide an update on two things: one is just the timing of when we should see that in market, and then two, are there other things you need to do to meet that requirement of across the landscape?

So, for example, do you have to think about supporting Java runtimes inside of SQL server, moving a little bit away from the traditional thought net development environment. Just curious as to how you are thinking about getting your arms around a wider set of use cases on alternative operating systems. Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Overall, we are very, very excited about what we are seeing with SQL on Linux, because the entire idea was to be able to have a full conversation around the data estate with customers. And to now be able to talk about the full SQL estate, one of the other conversations that we are having is not just about SQL, but our analytics and advanced analytics with R, where we've done some very, very compelling work, again, across Linux and Windows.

And then, of course, the cloud. So it's really the combination of SQL advanced analytics and the cloud, with things like Azure Data Lake, that are really the choices customers are trying to make as they think about their digital capability and the next generation of services and both the storage and processing capability they need.

Now, in terms of having support for these different runtimes, you're absolutely right, that's the reason why, for example, on Azure itself, Java is first-class. We have Linux is first-class. We have real openness to all of the frameworks that you can call out to, and that's something that we stay very attuned to, which is we are not trying to fight some old battles. This is all about being able to serve customers on their needs today, and that's what is leading and driving a lot of our choices, as well as how we think about our market opportunity.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Ross. We will take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you very much, and congratulations as well. Satya, you're making a much bigger bet on AI, and rightfully so. And you highlighted some very interesting use cases. Having said that, Microsoft has worked on AI projects for quite some time. So can you help us understand what degree of positive change you think will come from the combined group that you have recently formed, including when you think material AI benefits will become truly ingrained in your customers' workflows? And then secondly, how should we think about your incremental investment in AI going forward?

SATYA NADELLA: Overall, I am thrilled about both the AI group that we have formed, the AI research and the heritage we have with MSR. Even this week, I think we publicly are talking about setting the state-of-the-art when it comes to something like speech recognition, and it's something that we did even with image net and image recognition and object rec. So these are capabilities that are not easy to build if you don't have a real commitment to research, and then the ability to take that research and then ultimately turn it into products.

So the way to measure, though, from the investment side, is to see AI when it is infused into everything we do. Take HoloLens. The ability of HoloLens to be able to see the world, reconstruct it, and in that world to be able to superimpose holograms, that is AI -- applied AI that is working today. When you have Skype translate when two people are talking two different languages and are able to automatically translate without an interpreter between languages, it's using a deep neural net that is bringing together speech synthesis, speech recognition, and machine translation with Skype data. That is fairly magical.

When you seeing FPGA capable of running CNTK or TensorFlow to create intelligence, that is what we are using, in fact, for our speech and vision work. That is AI as applied today. So I am not waiting for some future date to see ROI from AI; we're very much going forward, even the Office tools example I used. They're all using AI today.

The PowerPoint designer, if you want the most practical use of it, even I can design great PowerPoint slides now because of AI. And so, that's how I measure progress. We are committed to long-term research, but we're also very focused on having the long-term research translated into everyday use products, and that's what you will see from us going forward.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We will have time for one last question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Stifel.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Great, thanks very much. Amy, quick question. With the recent release of Win Server 16, is there any reason to think that we shouldn't see some uptick in the transactional business, especially with the easing comps in the next couple of quarters? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brad. With our annuity mix as high as it is, it can impact it a couple points either way. But I don't think about that as really a material impact you should think about in the next couple of quarters. And our focus will always be making sure where we have a clear roadmap for customers to make long-term commitments through annuity. And so we are really trying to get away from some of that, quote-unquote, launch impact that you may normally expect to see.

BRAD REBACK: Great, thanks very much.

CHRIS SUH: So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will be webcast, and you can follow our comments at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. Please contact us if you need any additional details, and thank you again for joining.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you all.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161021ecak007pt
  


 HD
 Q4  2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,717 words
   PD
19 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to Microsoft's fourth-quarter FY16 earnings call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Mr. Chris Suh, General Manager Investor Relations. Thank you. You may begin.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORP.: Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.

On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer and John Seethoff Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary. On our website, Microsoft.com/investor, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.

Unless otherwise specified we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They're included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company's fourth-quarter performance in addition to the impact of these items and events had on financial results.

Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnotes of our Form 10-Q, which include research and development, sales and marketing, and general administrative, but excludes the impact of integration and restructuring charges. As a reminder, in May we announced plans to further streamline the phone hardware business. During the fourth quarter, restructuring and related impairment expenses were $1.1 billion.

All growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted. We will also provide growth rates in constant currency when available as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations.

At the segment level, we provide constant currency growth for both revenue and gross margin. However, due to recent changes to our segment reporting groupings, we're not able to provide segment level constant currency operating expense growth and consequently cannot derive constant currency segment operating income either.

We do provide constant currency operating expense and operating income growth at the Company-wide level. We'll post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being Webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 19th, 2017.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainty. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORP.: Thank you, Chris, and to everyone on the call for joining.

I want to thank all the Microsoft team members and partners who contributed to a successful year. We are proud of what we achieved and particularly how we are positioned for new growth.

Today Amy and I will share our fourth-quarter results and our perspective on the year ahead. We delivered $22.6 billion in revenue this quarter, an increase of 5% for the quarter in constant currency. This past year was a pivotal one in both our transformation and in our partnerships with customers who are also driving their own digital transformation.

Our progress is best captured in the results of our three ambitions, starting with productivity and business process. In a world of infinite information but finite attention in time we aim to change the nature of work with digital technology. In pursuit of this ambition, we continue to add value to our products, grow usage and increase our addressable market.

Along these lines, let me start with Office 365 and then move to Dynamics 365. In the last quarter we advanced our collaboration tools. We launched Microsoft Planner which helps teams manage operations, as well as Skype meetings which is aimed at helping small businesses collaborate.

In June, we further strengthened our security value proposition with the release of Advanced Security Management. Lastly, we continue to add intelligence and machine learning to Office to help people out automate their tasks and glean insights from data. These advancements help to drive increased usage across enterprises, small and medium businesses and consumers.

In the enterprise, Office 365 commercial feeds grew 45% year-over-year and revenue grew 59% in constant currency. Also, 70% of our Office enterprise agreement renewals are in the Cloud. Innovative companies like Facebook, Hershey's, Discovery Communications, Cushman Wakefield, all adopted Office 365 and now see how transformative this service can be for their own business.

We are enthusiastic about the early feedback and growth opportunity from companies using our newly released Office 365 E5, which includes powerful security controls, advanced analytics and Cloud Voice. These customers tell us that they love the simplification that comes with standardizing across all of our productivity workloads. We see momentum in small and medium businesses with a growing number of partners selling Office 365, now up to nearly 90,000, a 25% increase year-over-year. We continue to grab share and adding over 50,000 customers each month for 28 consecutive months.

We also see momentum amongst consumers with now more than 23 million Office 365 subscribers. Across segments, customers increasingly experience the power of Office on their iOS and Android mobile devices. In fact, we now have more than 50 million iOS and Android monthly active devices, up more than four times over last year.

Now let's talk about progress with the other pillar of this ambition, Dynamics 365. We're removing any impedance that existed between productivity, collaboration and business process. This month we took a major step forward with the introduction of Microsoft Dynamics 365 and Microsoft AppSource. Dynamics 365 provides business users with purpose-built SaaS applications.

These applications have intelligence built in. They integrate deeply with communications and collaboration capabilities of Office 365. Dynamics 365, along with AppSource and our rich application platform, introduces a disruptive and customer-centric business model, so customers can build what they want and use just the capabilities they need.

The launch of Dynamics 365 builds on the momentum we're already seeing in this business. Customers around the globe are harnessing the power of Dynamics in their own transformation, including 24 Hour Fitness and AccuWeather. Overall, Dynamics now has nearly 10 million monthly paid seats, up more than 20% year-over-year and Q4 billings grew more than 20% year-over-year.

Overall, business processes represent an enormous addressable market projected to be more than $100 billion by 2020. It's a market we're increasingly focused on and I believe we're poised with both Dynamics 365 and Microsoft AppSource to grow and drive opportunity for our partners. Across Office 365 and Dynamics 365, developers increasingly see the opportunity to build innovative apps and experiences with the Microsoft Graph and we now have over 27,000 apps connected to it.

Microsoft AppSource will be a new way for developers to offer their services and reach customers worldwide. Lastly, with Office 365 and Dynamics 365, we have the opportunity to connect the world's professional cloud and the world's professional network with our pending LinkedIn deal.

Overall, the Microsoft Cloud is winning significant customer support. With more than $12 billion in commercial Cloud annualized revenue run rate, we are on track to achieve our goal of $20 billion in FY18. Also, nearly 60% of the Fortune 500 companies have at least three of our Cloud offerings. And we continue to grow our annuity mix of our business. In fact, commercial annuity mix increased year-over-year to 83%.

Now let's get into the specifics of the Intelligent Cloud, an area of massive opportunity as we are clearly one of the two enterprise cloud leaders. Companies looking to digitally transform need a trusted cloud partner and turn to Microsoft. As a result, Azure revenue and usage again grew by more than 100% this quarter.

We see customers choose Microsoft for three reasons. They want a cloud provider that offers solutions that reflect the realities of today's world and their enterprise grade needs. They want higher level services to drive digital transformation and they want a cloud open to developers of all types.

Let me expand on each. To start, a wide variety of customers turn to Azure because of their specific real world needs. Multinationals choose us because we are the only hybrid and hyper scale cloud spanning multiple jurisdictions. We cover more countries and regions than any other cloud provider from North America to Asia to Europe to Latin America. Our cloud respects data sovereignty and makes it possible for an enterprise application to work across these regions and jurisdictions.

More than 80% of the world's largest banks are Azure customers because of our leadership support for regulatory requirements, advanced security and commitment to privacy. Large ISVs like SAP and Citrix as well as startups like Sprinklr also choose Azure because of our global reach and our broad set of platform services Last week GE announced it will adopt our Cloud for its IoT approach.

Next, Azure customers also value our unique higher level services. Now with 33,000, we nearly doubled in one year the number of companies worldwide that have selected our Enterprise Mobility Solutions. The Dow Chemical Company leverages EMS along with Azure, Office 365 and Dynamics to give its thousands of employees secure real time access to data and apps from anywhere.

Just yesterday we announced Boeing will use Azure IoT Suite and Cortana Intelligence to drive digital transformation in commercial aviation with connected airline system optimization, predictive maintenance and much more. This builds on great momentum in IoT, including our work with Rolls Royce, Snyder Electric and others.

This is great progress, but our ambitions are set even higher. Our Intelligent Cloud also enables cognitive services. Cortana Intelligence Suite offers machine-learning capabilities and advanced predictive analytics. Customers like Jabil Circuit, Fruit of the Loom, Land O'Lakes, Libaire, already realize the benefits of these new capabilities.

Lastly, central to our Intelligent Cloud ambition is providing developers with the tools and capabilities they need to build apps and services for the platforms and devices of their choice. The new Azure Container Service, as well as .NET core 1.0 for open source and our ongoing work with companies such as Red Hat, Docker, Mesosphere, reflects significant progress on this front. We continue to see traction from open source with nearly a third of customer virtual machines on Azure running Linux.

On the server side, premium server revenue grew double digits in constant currency year-over-year. New SQL Server 2016 helps us expand into new markets with built-in advanced analytics and unparalleled performance. More than 15,000 customers, including over 50% of the Fortune 500, have registered for the private preview of SQL Server for Linux. And we're not slowing down. We will launch Windows Server 2016 and System 7 Server 2016 later this year.

Now let's talk about the progress in More Personal Computing. We've increased Windows 10 monthly active devices and are now at more than 350 million. This is the fastest adoption rate of any prior Windows release.

While we are proud of these results, given changes to our phone plan, we changed how we will assess progress. Going forward, we will track progress by regularly reporting the growth of Windows 10 monthly active devices, in addition to progress on three aspects of our Windows strategy. First, deliver more value and innovation, particularly for enterprise customers. Second, grow new monetization through services across our unified Windows platform. Third, innovate in new device categories in partnership with our OEMs.

Let me walk through each. We continue to pursue our goal of moving people from needing Windows to choosing Windows to loving Windows. In two weeks, we will launch Windows 10 Anniversary Update which takes a significant step forward in security. We're also extending Windows Hello to support apps and websites and delivering a range of new features like Windows Ink and updates to Microsoft Edge. We expect these advances will drive increased adoption of Windows 10, particularly in the enterprise in the coming year. We already have strong traction with over 96% of our enterprise customers piloting Windows 10.

Next, as we grow our install base in engagement, we generate more opportunity for Microsoft and our ecosystem. Ink profitability continues to grow with greater than 40% of the search revenue in June from Windows 10 devices. Bing PC query share in the United States approached 22% this quarter, not including volume from AOL and Yahoo. The Cortana search box has over 100 million monthly active users, with 8 billion questions asked to date.

We continue to drive growth in gaming by connecting fans on Xbox Live across Windows 10, IoS and Android. Just this quarter we launched our Minecraft Realm subscription on Android and IoS. Overall engagement on Xbox live is at record levels with more than 49 million monthly active users, up 33% year-over-year.

At E3 we announced our biggest lineup of exclusive games ever for Xbox One and Windows 10 PCs and we announced Xbox Play Anywhere titles where gamers can buy a game once and play it on both their Windows 10 PC and Xbox One. We also announced two new members of the Xbox One console family, the Xbox One S and Project Scorpio. The Windows Store continues to grow with new universal Windows apps like Bank of America, Roku, Cirrus FM, Instagram, Facebook, Wine, Hulu and popular PC games like Quantum Break.

Finally, we're innovating in new device categories in partnership with OEMs. Our hardware partners are embracing the new personal computing vision with over 1,500 new devices designed to take advantage of Windows 10 innovations like touch, pen, Hello, and better performance and power efficiency. Microsoft's family of Surface devices continues to drive category growth and we're reaching more commercial customers of all sizes with the support of our channel partners. We recently announced new Surface enterprise initiatives with IBM and Booz Allen Hamilton, to enable more customer segments.

Also in the past year, we grew our commercial Surface partner channel from over 150 to over 10,000. Lastly, this quarter more and more developers and enterprise customers got to experience two entirely new device categories from Microsoft Surface Hub and Microsoft HoloLens. While we are still in the early days of both of these devices, we are seeing great traction with both enterprise customers and developers, making us optimistic about future growth.

In closing, I want to reflect on the opportunity ahead of us. Simply put, businesses will not just use digital technologies, but they will become digital companies. This generates enormous opportunity for Microsoft and our partners. We are the ones who can empower digital transformation across all industries, companies and geographies with our technology and platforms.

With that, I'll hand it over to Amy to go through this quarter's results in greater detail and share our outlook, and I look forward to rejoining you after that to answer questions.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP.: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone.

This quarter revenue was $22.6 billion, up 2% and 5% in constant currency. Gross margin was flat, but up 4% in constant currency.

Operating income this quarter declined by 3% and grew 6% in constant currency. And Earnings Per Share was $0.69, increasing 11% year-over-year, or 27% in constant currency. Across most markets our execution and results were generally as expected with some strength in the US. But we did see additional softness in Brazil, the Middle East, and Africa, which were impacted by macroeconomic headwinds.

From a seasonality perspective, the fourth quarter is always an important one for our commercial business. Our results were strong as our sales teams led with our Cloud offers. Healthy renewals helped to drive double-digit annuity performance in constant currency. Our total annuity mix reached 83%, up 1 point year-over-year.

While our commercial Cloud continued to drive a higher annuity mix overall, we also had better than expected transactional revenue performance, as products like Office 2016 and SQL Server 2016 generated more deal volume. The dollar volume of expiring enterprise agreements was smaller this quarter than last year.

On that base, our commercial bookings increased 4% in constant currency, driven by customer preference for our Cloud offers. Commercial unearned revenue slightly beat our expectations at $24.6 billion, or 8% growth in constant currency. Our contracted-not-billed balance exceeded $25.5 billion.

As Satya called out earlier, our commercial Cloud annualized revenue run-rate exceeded $12.1 billion, growing more than 50% year-over-year. Additionally, more than 70% of customers who signed enterprise agreements this quarter attached Cloud offerings. Our commercial Cloud gross margin was 42%, declining year-over-year, driven by investments for cloud capacity, deployment, and support.

Now let's turn to Company gross margin performance. We were above our COGS expectations due to approximately $200 million of inventory adjustments from the change in our phone hardware business. And, as expected, our mix of Cloud services revenue continued to increase, resulting in gross margin percentage declines in the productivity and business processes and Intelligent Cloud segments. Importantly, gross margin dollars expanded year-over-year in constant currency.

In Q4, the FX impact on total and segment level revenue was in line with expectations. FX had a 3-point negative impact on productivity and business processes and Intelligent Cloud results and a 2-point negative impact on More Personal Computing results.

As we've noted in previous quarters, we're not able to provide constant currency impact at the segment level for operating expenses and therefore segment operating income. This quarter total operating expenses grew 1% in constant currency, above our expectations due to legal settlements and revenue driven sales cost. At the Company level, our operating income grew 6% in constant currency as FX had a 9-point impact on our results.

Now let's turn to each segment. This quarter our productivity and business processes segment delivered results above our expectations with nearly $7 billion in revenue, an increase of 5% and 8% in constant currency. In Office commercial, revenue increased by 5% and 9% in constant currency, as Office 365 growth outpaced the shift from our on-premises business.

Our seat growth was driven by broad-based momentum across commercial customers of all sizes. While we generally expect transactional purchasing to continue to decline, results across all products came in higher than anticipated this quarter. Office consumer revenue increased 19%, and 18% in constant currency, outperforming the consumer PC market, driven by seat growth, recurring subscription revenue and 6 points of growth from Japan, which had a particularly weak quarter a year ago. And our Dynamics business grew 6%, up 7% in constant currency, with strong billings and seat growth.

Segment gross margin dollars were flat and up 4% in constant currency. The gross margin percentage declined on a higher cloud revenue mix within the segment, coupled with an increase in cloud investments.

Operating expenses grew 6% from investments in commercial cloud sales programs and engineering. As a result, operating income declined 5%. The Intelligent Cloud segment delivered slightly more than $6.7 billion in revenue, growing 7% and 10% in constant currency. Demand and use of our hybrid cloud offerings led to another quarter of double-digit annuity revenue growth within Server products and Cloud services, partially offset by a decline in our transactional on-premises server business.

Enterprise services revenue grew 12%, 14% in constant currency, as customer demand for Windows Server 2003 end of support agreements and premier services continued this quarter. Gross margin dollars grew 1% and 5% in constant currency. And gross margin percentages declined as cloud mix accelerated. This quarter operating income declined 17%, driven by investment in sales resources and engineering.

Now to our final segment, More Personal Computing. Revenue was $8.9 billion, down 4% and 2% in constant currency. First, our OEM results. Our total OEM business grew 11% this quarter, outperforming the overall PC market, which was better than we expected in most markets including the US, the UK and Germany, partially offset by incremental weakness in India and Russia.

OEM non-Pro revenue increased 27% and, similar to last quarter, was driven by a higher mix of premium devices. OEM Pro revenue grew 2%, reflecting a stabilizing commercial PC market and a higher mix of business PCs sold with Windows Pro.

Inventory across both OEM Pro and non-Pro remained at normal levels. Windows volume licensing grew 3% and 9% in constant currency with ongoing annuity growth. IP licensing declined, impacted by both a decrease in total unit volume and lower revenue per unit.

We continued to execute well in our search business this quarter and, as we committed, Bing was profitable for the full fiscal year, driven by increasing revenue per search and search volume. As expected, devices revenues significantly decreased this quarter. Revenue declined 35%, also 35% in constant currency, due to phone, where revenue declined 70% in constant currency.

Surface revenue increased 9% in constant currency as Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book growth was partially offset by unit declines in our prior generation Surface 3. And in gaming, revenue declined 9%, or 8% in constant currency driven by lower Xbox 360 unit volumes and reduced Xbox One pricing.

Our overall gaming ecosystem showed healthy growth with 49 million monthly active Xbox Live users, or a 33% increase and 4% Xbox Live revenue growth. Segment gross margin dollars declined 3% or roughly flat in constant currency as decreases due to Xbox consoles and the phone inventory adjustment were partially offset by our OEM and search results. Operating expenses decreased this quarter by 13%, based primarily on reduced phone spend and the transition of display advertising cells to AOL, resulting in segment operating income growth of 59%.

Now back to our overall Company results. We invested $3.1 billion in capital expenditures, consistent with our plan for accelerated investment as we added both commercial and consumer global cloud capacity to meet near term and longer term customer demand. During the quarter we continued to rebalance our investment portfolio, which resulted in other income and expense of $267 million from net recognized gains on investments, partially offset by interest expense.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 15% this quarter, lower than we expected. Our income tax expense reflected a favorable mix between US and foreign countries, as well as benefits associated with distributions from foreign affiliates. This quarter we returned $6.4 billion to shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends.

Before turning to next quarter's outlook, I want to share our view on the shape of next fiscal year. My commentary, both on the year and next quarter, does not include LinkedIn. However, we still expect the transaction to close in the second quarter.

For the full year we expect the FX impact to lessen throughout the year, assuming current rates remain stable. In H1 we expect a total impact of 1 point, reducing to zero in H2. The fundamentals of our commercial business remain strong and we anticipate that Cloud services and healthy renewals will continue to drive high annuity mix.

As I've noted before, our commercial transactional business is influenced by different dynamics. Most important, it's impacted by a structural transition to the cloud across all workloads. But it's also more sensitive to overall macroeconomic conditions and changes in corporate budgets.

We expect volatility, as we saw in both Q3 and Q4 this year, to continue in the next fiscal year. Before discussing our total Company gross margin expectations, let me first address commercial Cloud gross margin. We expect the commercial Cloud gross margin percentage and dollars to materially improve next fiscal year. We have invested heavily to build share, expand geographically and ensure world class support and reliability for our commercial customers. Going forward, we expect those investments to provide benefits of scale.

We also anticipate our cloud capital expenditure growth curve will slow. Given seasonality and revenue mix, commercial cloud gross margin will see variability quarter-to-quarter but an overall trend of material improvement. At the Company level, as each cloud service continues to grow and improve its gross margin percentage, our Company gross margin should only decline roughly a point in FY17. We now expect our full-year operating expense will be $31.1 billion to $31.4 billion as we continue to prioritize spend on strategic growth opportunities.

Lastly, our effective tax rate; our tax rate is impacted by three factors: the proportion of services revenue versus licensing revenue, the geographic mix of revenue and the timing of equity vests. As our Cloud continues to gain momentum, we expect our tax rate to increase. With quarterly variability based on these factors, we anticipate our non-GAAP tax rate to be 20% for the full year, plus or minus 2 points.

Now to the outlook for the next quarter. Based on current currency rates and forecasted geographic mix of revenue, we expect 2 points of negative impact on total revenue in Q1. By segment, the negative impact is 2 points in productivity and business process, 2 points in Intelligent Cloud, and 1 point in More Personal Computing.

We expect commercial unearned revenue to be within the range of $21.8 billion to $22 billion, in line with historic seasonality. In productivity and business process, we expect revenue to be $6.4 billion to $6.6 billion. We will continue to grow our install base and drive premium mix through offers like Office 365 E5. We anticipate continued transactional declines as customer migration to the cloud accelerates.

In our consumer business, we will outpace the consumer PC market. But the benefit from Japan's improved results over a weak prior period and the benefit from last year's Office 2016 launch are not expected to repeat.

For Intelligent Cloud we expect revenue between $6.1 billion and $6.3 billion driven by continued annuity strength across Azure and our hybrid cloud offerings, offset by ongoing declines in our transactional on-premises server business, and moderating growth from support agreements in enterprise services.

In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue between $8.7 billion and $9 billion. We anticipate that our OEM revenue will be more in line with overall PC market trends. Devices revenue will decline again from our actions in phone, gaming revenue will be driven by the same factors as in Q4. And in search, we expect Bing's growth trajectory to continue.

We expect COGS to be $7.5 billion to $7.6 billion with variability due to device sales. We expect operating expenses between $7.35 billion and $7.45 billion. We expect other income and expenses to be approximately zero as realized gains on investments should offset debt expense.

And with that, Chris, let's go to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy.

We'll move now to the Q&A section. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions).

Our first question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Thank you for taking the question, and very nice quarter. I wanted to dig into Azure and maybe one question for Satya and one question for Amy.

Satya, you mentioned the Boeing agreement. What was interesting about that is, not just a large company moving significant workloads onto Azure, but from my reading, sounds like there's a distribution side of this agreement that you are going to help distribute some of those applications on a going-forward basis. I was wondering if you could touch a little bit on that?

Is that a one time thing or is that something that you look to do more often with some of these large companies? Moving workloads onto Azure. And then for Amy. Thank you for the additional detail on the cloud gross margin profile on a going forward basis.

When we dig into just Azure, you said in the past that you expect to match the gross margin profile of what we're seeing in Amazon web services. Does that commentary still hold?

And then you could give us a sort of mark-to-market on how you're doing in terms of matching up Azure's gross margin profile to what you've seen from your top competitor there?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Keith, for those questions. Let me start on the first one.

You're absolutely right that one of the phenomena now is that pretty much anyone who is a customer of Azure is also in some form an ISV. And that's no longer just limited to people who are quote-unquote in the classic tech industry or the software business. That's the same case with GE, it's the same case with Boeing, it's the same case with Seider Electric or ABB or any one of the customers we are working with, because they all are taking some of their assets and converting them into SaaS applications on Azure.

And that's something that we will in fact have distribution agreements with. And AppSource, it's a pretty major announcement for us, because we essentially created, for SaaS applications and infrastructure applications, a way to distribute their applications through us and our channel and I think it makes, in fact, our Cloud more attractive to many of them because of that. I think going forward we will -- you'll look to see or you'll see us do much more of this with many other customers of ours.

AMY HOOD: And to your question on Azure gross margin specifically and how we think about that in comparison, let me first say, the additional color I gave in terms of comments in terms of material improvement clearly also apply to our Azure portfolio as well. We're encouraged by the improvements we've seen year-over-year and we do expect material improvement in FY17, both from the benefits of scale and the investments we've made, but importantly also in the revenue trajectory we're seeing and the makeup of that revenue.

Boeing's agreement is one such agreement, in terms of embedding a premium service at a premium gross margin. We signed many of those this quarter that we feel quite good about. I think I have a strong line of sight to AWS's margin profile and still feel good about the progress we're making.

Not just on the workloads that are relevant, apples-to-apple with Azure, but also in our broader Cloud portfolio and our ability to have very healthy margins across Dynamics 365 as well as Office 365 in conjunction with many of the innovations we're doing across Azure. While I am focused on both the workload improvements, I'm also focused on what's possible across the entirety of the cloud.

Thanks, Keith.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: We'll go to the next question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your question.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thank you.

So Satya or Amy, last quarter, the stock was hit in part on a deceleration in your on-premises server product business, and I think your commentary around the transactional part of that suggested it softened a little bit. I think your tone on this call is a lot better around the transactional performance, and it looks like that business accelerated a little bit. Perhaps you could explain what changed in the course of the three months to make the transactional piece, at least if I'm hearing you correctly, feel a little bit better?

Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and then, Amy, you can add to it. Overall, Karl, the focus for us is in what I describe as this hyper scale plus hybrid approach. When you think about the cloud approach, which is pretty unique to us, and the way we track progress is to see how is our annuity growth of our server business and how is our Cloud growth.

And if you look at this last quarter, our annuity grew double digits and our cloud grew triple digits, and that's a pretty healthy growth rate. And that's something that, by design both in terms of the technical architecture, as well as the traction we have in the marketplace and our sales efforts, and so on are playing out well and we are very bullish about that going forward. The transactional business is much more volatile because of the macro environment, IT budgets and also the secular shift to the cloud. The question again that gets asked is about the cannibalization.

But if you look at Boeing or you look at any of the other examples that I talk about when it comes to the Cloud, our servers never did what these customers are now doing in our Cloud. So at a fundamental long-term secular basis, we have new growth, new workloads and that's what we're focused on and that's a much bigger addressable market than anything our transactional server business had in the past.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Karl. We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS. Please proceed with your question.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, Amy.

In Q3 the transactional business was weak and you said the business bounced back in Q4. Was that just a mere fact of you cleaning up some of the slipped business, or did you see additional strength on top of some of those closed transactions on the transactional business in Q4?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent. Let me split your question into two components.

The first thing, really, that I think Satya and I both focus on every quarter, every month is how much of our business are we continuing to shift to annuity and specifically to the cloud. We structure all of our motions at this Company from how we engineer to how we do our go-to-markets, to how we think about sales engagement, to how we do our investments, Fundamentally, toward that long-term structural transition in the market. And so to your question on transactional performance, there were some deals that didn't get done in Q3 that got done in Q4.

And there were some deals done in Q4 on the Office side with large companies that I'm thrilled by. But at the same time we still will focus on those deals moving to the Cloud over time. And so this volatility that we are going to see because of macro and because of budget constraints, especially on transactional, we will focus on because we expect excellent execution and have accountability to do that in the field. But our first priority every time is to make sure we are focused on annuity growth and digital transformation at our Company, which is best done through that motion.

BRENT THILL: Just to be clear, Amy, in terms of the sales motion, are they incented more towards cloud versus transactional going into this year?

AMY HOOD: Yes.

SATYA NADELLA: Absolutely.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Brent. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great.

Satya, I had a question for you on Azure. I was just wondering if you could talk about the percentage of Azure revenue coming from ISVs? And then how do you see this helping you compete with AWS? And can you talk about why these partners may be choosing you over the competition?

Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Sure.

Let me take that second part in terms of what is our differentiation. In my remarks I sort of pointed out the couple of dimensions. But overall, I believe this hyper scale plus hybrid architecturally helps us a lot with enterprise customers because we meet them where their realities are today and also the digital transformation needs going forward. So that's one massive advantage we have.

The second area for us is also the nexus between what's happening in Office 365, Dynamics 365, AppSource, and in fact this last quarter some of the most strategic announcements were all around our application platform. At our partner conference there was significant amount of excitement with the tools that we announced like PowerApps and Power BI, Azure functions and flow. These are tools that our developers and system integrators and solution partners will use in order to be able to customize applications around Azure. And so to me, that's another huge advantage and a competitive differentiation for us.

And then lastly, we have the best support for what I would say is the most open platform for all developers. Not only is .NET first class, but Linux is first class, Java is first class, Azure Container Service cuts across both containers running on Windows, running across Linux, so again, speaks to the enterprise realities. So those would be the places where we are fairly differentiated and that's what you see us gaining, both for enterprise customers and ISVs.

The question you asked is an interesting one, which is if I had to slice it by classic ISVs, it would be one-third or so of our revenue. But the thing that -- the first question that Keith asked is probably more indicative of what's happening, which is every customer's also an ISV.

So every customer who starts off consuming Azure is also turning what is their IP in some -- most cases into an ISV solution, which ultimately will even participate in AppSource. So at least the vision that we have is that every customer is a digital company that will have a digital IP component to it and that we want to be able to partner with them in pretty unique ways.

AMY HOOD: I would also add, Heather, the importance of the motion in our field organization and go-to-market with ISVs is incredibly high in terms of selling with and along with those ISVs, both making them successful and thereby helping us build very important scale through the platform. We've seen a lot of improvement in the past four quarters on that front.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Heather.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Heather. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research. Please proceed with your question.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN RESEARCH: Thank you.

Amy, how much of the weakness in transactional has been caused by clients that otherwise would have bought a license now under annuity? In other words, are you driving the transactional weakness to some extent by driving the growth in on-prem?

And then I have a quick follow-up for Satya.

AMY HOOD: It's probably not exactly how I would say it, Mark. I do believe that every conversation that we're having with customers is Cloud-led. That Cloud-led conversation and making a plan for customers to best change and transform their own business, certainly far more in-depth one than on occasion is required by long-time transactional purchasers, especially in Office, as an example, because what we're talking about now is really pivoting your business for the long term.

And so I'm sure there are examples where that has elongated the sales cycle for good reason. But I would generally point back to say most of these are driven at the structural level, which is structurally over time on-premises transactional business will move to the cloud or to a hybrid structure through an annuity revenue stream.

Now over any short term period, the majority of what we have seen is really -- is either budget constraint, a macroeconomic change or people, to the question you've laid out, maybe in the midst of making their cloud transition plan and maybe that has elongated the sales cycle to an extent. But again, I don't view that as negative performance. I view that as strategic relevance long-term inside of digital accounts.

MARK MOERDLER: That makes a lot of sense. Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi. Please proceed with your question.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks.

Amy, I'm wondering, you saw very strong unearned revenue in the quarter, but I note that you saw contracted backlog that grew sequentially below what a typical June quarter does in commercial bookings that were up about 4%, off of a fairly easy comp. But, I'm wondering if you could just help us understand the dynamics between -- in new and renewal signings that drove that combination of really strong unearned but somewhat weaker trends in the bookings?

AMY HOOD: Sure.

Strong unearned in particular was actually better than expected Azure billings in the quarter that drove unearned above the high end of our guide and I think we were quite pleased by that performance. In terms of [C and D], that's the reference I made in my comments to the lower expiry base. Quarter-to-quarter and year-to-year we just had different amounts of contracts expiring. And so this was one of our lower contract bases and was lower than a year ago. So the fact that we were able to grow in that low expiry base is actually very good structural performance.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Walter. We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays. Please proceed with your question.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two questions on the Office side; first of all, you obviously reaching very large numbers in terms of the numbers of seats that you have. Can you talk a little bit about what's the seat growth because, both for consumer and for commercial, it seemed to be coming down?

Is that kind of the law of large numbers coming in or is there anything else? And then the consumer Office, the consumer Office performance was very, very strong and that almost needs to be stronger from transactions because otherwise I don't get to the numbers. Can you talk a little about the source of the strength there?

Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Raimo.

Let me start with the Office consumer question. We haven't had a chance to touch on that. And then we'll talk about commercial seat growth.

You're right, the Office consumer growth still has quite a bit of transactional business to it, even though we have moved, and you saw that growth, the subscriber base sort of materially, the growth in quarter versus our expectations was really two things that are transactionally focused. One, the PC market was a little better than we thought. And particularly in developed markets, the PC growth was better than we thought.

And developed markets are where we see the most transactional business with consumer Office that impacts in quarter. So the strength from that outperformance or better market and consumer PCs in developed markets is a direct correlation to our performance in Office consumer. And so that's how to think about that big delta.

The other thing was Japan was a little better and when Japan is better, it's why you also see the interesting relationship in constant currency. We have a lot of yen exposure in that segment. So the Japan performance being better also helped. That is a purely -- it's more transactional than even our Rest-of-World business. So you're right, Raimo, in terms of what impacted that number in-quarter versus the underlying market dynamics.

On commercial seats, listen, we're very proud of that big number, growth number, but you're right, we're also getting a very big base. And so, while we feel great about continuing to add seats at that type of rate, converting and adding net new into our install base, you will see that growth rate come down just because the business is getting quite big.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Raimo. We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen & Company. Please proceed with your question.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Okay. Thanks very much and good afternoon.

Amy, you spoke about a slowdown in the Cloud CapEx growth curve in FY17. I assume you're referring to the growth in absolute dollars moderating and not just the rate of change in percentage terms? But any additional color that you could provide on the Company's CapEx requirements over the course of the next year would be appreciated.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Greg.

You're right, my comments are more pivoted toward the absolute dollar amounts, which is what I tend to focus on in my comments. It's a good clarification and thanks for asking.

In terms of how we think about the absolute numbers, first I should say I think most people assume, and it is true to a certain extent, so much of this is the growth in our commercial businesses across Azure and Dynamics and Office 365 and that's true. But we're also seeing quite good growth in some of the consumer businesses, which also are built on our Cloud infrastructure. Search, some of our gaming assets, our Xbox Live business going forward, and so many of these assets, including increased usage of our consumer properties inside our productivity business and Office do require capital spend. And so the growth is pretty broad-based to support.

And so, as I think about moderation, it is the absolute dollar. It's from -- it's not due to any change in our aspiration or belief in the growth curve of revenue and I want to be clear on that. It really is about continuing to benefit from scale and engineering improvements that will allow us to do that even as we see broad-based growth.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Very helpful. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital Markets. Please proceed with your question.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks so much for taking my question.

Amy, I had one on the same lines on CapEx, and I just wondered if you could provide some insights? We're at 26 data center regions today. I think you have 34 planned. So that would imply we're about three quarters of the way through that spending cycle. But should we view 34 as a ceiling, or is it possible that we could see further data center regions built out beyond that 34? And then I had one follow-up.

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and then, Amy, you can add to this.

In some sense Ross you're trying to ask us to project forward and say what is the legitimate digital security and digital sovereignty needs of all the different types of businesses that we want to serve using the cloud all over the world. The position that we have taken is that we want to serve customers where they are and not assume some very simplistically that that digital sovereignty needs of customers can be met out of a fewer data center approach. Because right now, given the secular trend to of move to the cloud across all of the regulated industries across the globe, we think it's wiser for us and our investors long-term to be able to meet them where they are and that's what you see us.

We were the only cloud that operates in China under Chinese law, the only cloud that operates in Germany under German law. And these are critical competitive advantages to us. And so we will track that and we'll be very demand-driven.

So there is, in this case, we're not taking these positions of which regions to open and where to open them well in advance of our demand. If anything, I think our cycle times have significantly come down. So it will be demand driven, but I don't want to essentially put a cap because if the opportunity arises and for us it's a higher ROI decision to open a new region, we will do so.

AMY HOOD: I would add, in addition to the number of regions, what Satya's talking about, it's also the capacity inside a region. Much of our spend is, as you note, on some of the infrastructure to put in place when you pick a location. The rest of it is continuing to build out in that location the number of servers and networking equipment required. So there's really two components and I think Satya's talked about why you would enter a region and its ROI and there's also the correlation to how many servers and that spend and pace over time based on demand.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thanks so much. Maybe just one quick follow-up.

The server products business that Karl talked about did rebound this quarter and I think it was up about 4% constant currency for the year. I know you're not guiding to that number specifically and you talked about potential volatility.

But is there any range of outcomes that you're thinking about for that business? Will it grow? Is it not clear that it will grow? I'd just love any additional color there. Thank you.

AMY HOOD: In terms of server products and services, I tend to think of it as the all-up growth. It's really about growing the cloud, growing the hybrid, and then whatever happens in the transactional business happens.

And we -- I'm very proud, actually, of the growth this quarter. I think our guide for Q1, given some of the headwinds we expect in terms of support agreements that we talked about in enterprise services, continues to expect very healthy double-digit annuity growth driven fundamentally by Azure in that segment.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Ross.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thanks again. Congratulations.

OPERATOR: We'll go to the next question, please. Our next question comes from the line of Michael Turits with Raymond James. Please proceed with your question.

MICHAEL TURITS, ANALYST, RAYMOND JAMES: Hi, guys, thanks for taking my question. Satya, around the LinkedIn announcement there was a lot of discussion about some of the opportunities to use the assets and information there to help build your HCM and CRM capabilities, and then we fairly shortly afterwards got the announcement of Dynamics 365 and AppSource. Maybe given the amount of discussion here you could comment on the evolution of the strategy and your thought process around broad enterprise application?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for that question.

So I look at what we're doing with Office 365, Dynamics 365, AppSource, LinkedIn, as all being part of one strategy. So the move to the cloud for our customers and for us is not just about a new way of delivering the same value, just as a self service. It's really the transformation from having applications that are silos to becoming more services in the cloud where you can reason about the activity and the data underneath these services to benefit the customers who are using these services.

So that's what this notion of a graph represents. So when somebody moves to office 365, they graph their people, their relationships with other people inside the organization. Their work artifacts all move to the cloud. You can connect them with all the business process data that's in Dynamics 365. But not just in Dynamics 365, but all the applications in AppSource, because business process will always be a much more fragmented market as opposed to just one market share leader by industry, by vertical, by country.

And so that's our strategy there. And now the professional Cloud or the professional network helps usage across all of that professional usage, whether it's in Office 365, or whether you're a salesperson using any application related to sales, you want your professional network there. Of course it's relevant in recruiting. It's relevant in training. It's relevant in marketing.

So that's really our strategy with LinkedIn as the professional network needing the professional cloud. And so you're right to point out that these are all part of one overarching strategy, and ultimately it's about adding value to customers.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Michael.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks so much. We'll have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

MARK MURPHY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Yes, thank you very much.

Satya, we noticed Office 365 commercial seat growth of 45% produced Office 365 commercial revenue growth of 59% in constant currency. So a favorable spread of about 14 points suggesting ASP growth. Wondering if you could help us understand the drivers, both now and into the future, particularly in terms of the initial response to the E5 plan, and also which products you think are driving the strength as you consider across Exchange, Skype for Business, Power BI, Yammer, SharePoint, et cetera.

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and, Amy, you can add to it.

Overall, I'd say even in this last year, even just the broader spread of E3 has driven a lot of the growth. And then of course we're very excited about E5, but the very, very early days of E5. E5 value proposition across all three of the areas, whether it's cloud voice or analytics or security are all three massive areas for us.

And I would say, if anything, the initial data from customers around security is very -- is gaining a lot of traction. But we're at the same time -- one of the things that customers are looking for is making an enterprise-wide architectural decision across all of the workloads. So E3, E5 and higher penetration of this is what's going to drive ASV growth.

And you can see -- you'll see us add more value to these packages as time goes on, as well, because our R&D is focused on that, which is how do we take these buckets of value creation and reinforce them with all of the future R&D as well.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Mark.

So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person these events will be Webcast and you can follow our comments at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. Please contact us if you need any additional details and thank you for joining us today.

AMY HOOD: Thanks all.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation and have a wonderful day.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
jap : Japan | usa : United States | apacz : Asia Pacific | asiaz : Asia | easiaz : Eastern Asia | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160720ec7j00692
  


 HD
 Q3  2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,747 words
   PD
21 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's third quarter FY16 earnings call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call, with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer, Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer, Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.

On our website, microsoft.com/investor, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call, and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP measures exclude the net impact from revenue deferrals, and the impact of integration and restructuring charges. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for, or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items, to aid investors in further understanding the Company's third quarter performance, in addition to the impact that these items and events had on the financial results.

All growth comparisons we make on the call relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We also provide growth rates in constant currency when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. At the segment level, we provide constant currency growth for both revenue and gross margin. However, due to recent change to our external reporting segments, we aren't able to provide segment level constant currency operating expense growth, and consequently, cannot derive constant currency segment operating income either. We do provide constant currency operating expense, and operating income growth at the company-wide level.

Please note that in the third quarter of FY16, we adopted a new standard issued by the FASB, that made certain changes to accounting for stock-based compensation. One of the more significant changes require that excess tax benefits and deficiencies be recorded as part of income tax expense, rather than as part of additional paid-in capital. Adoption of the new guidance requires us to reflect adjustments as of July 1, 2015, and hence impacts our previously reported quarterly results for FY16. You can find additional information in the financial summary slide deck, and in our 10-Q filing.

We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live, and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call, and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until April 21, 2017.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris, and thanks to everyone on the phone for joining. Overall, we had a solid quarter. Amy and I look forward to sharing more about the results, and what's ahead. We delivered $22.1 billion in revenue, with an operating income of $6.8 billion.

We exceeded $10 billion in commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate. We are halfway to our FY18 goal of $20 billion. This quarter, we surpassed 270 million monthly active devices running Windows 10. We are proud of our progress, and look forward to making more, as enterprise deployments accelerate.

Now let's get to the specifics of each of our three segments, starting with productivity and business process. We set out to reinvent productivity and business process, because we believe that people should get more out of every moment, and organizations should be able to reach new levels of effectiveness. This approach is opening up new growth opportunity for Microsoft in three ways. We can reach more users, enter new markets, and build a developer platform.

Let me talk through each. First, we are reaching new users, and strengthening our productivity platform. Consumer subscriptions of Office grew to more than 22 million. Devices with our mobile apps grew approximately 4 times year-over-year. Commercial Office 365 customers surpassed 70 million monthly active users, and we grew seats by 57%.

Second, we are expanding into new markets such as security, analytics, and cloud voice, where we see an opportunity, and where we can differentiate. For example, the cybersecurity market is expanding rapidly, and it's a place where we have unique capabilities like advanced threat protection, cloud app security, and advanced e-discovery. This combination drove a 35% quarter-over-quarter growth of monthly active users of our premium information protection services in Office 365. A key driver of this growth is our new premium Office 365 Suite E5.

Lastly, we're making Office 365 more than a world-class productivity and communications service. It's becoming a growing platform for developers. There is an incredible amount of value developers can deliver by harnessing the data in this platform. It can be as simple as Starbucks enabling somebody to email a cup of coffee, or it can be as a sophisticated as DocuSign, streamlining processes for digital signatures based on the understanding of people's availability and organizational hierarchy.

We continue to make advances in our developer platform by expanding Microsoft Graph APIs, and opening Skype to developers. This is generating developer momentum. In fact, active apps calling on Microsoft Graph APIs are up month over month.

In business process applications, our Dynamics product line is expanding to include new scenarios such as IoT, field service, customer self-service, and built-in business intelligence and advanced analytics. For example, Echo Labs uses CRM online with Azure IoT, not only to help their customers use water systems more efficiently, but also to predict equipment failure, and direct field engineers to respond. And Just Eat in the UK uses Dynamics AX to make it easy for millions of people to order food for take-outs online. These are scenarios are driving new growth. Dynamics CRM online seats more than doubled this quarter, with over 80% of our new CRM customers deploying in the cloud. We grew Dynamics AX revenue double-digits.

Now let's move to the intelligent cloud segment. The cloud is being built into every organization's quest to optimize and grow. With our results this quarter, it remains clear, we are one of the two leaders in this market.

Azure revenue increased 120% in constant currency, with revenue from premium services growing triple-digits for the seventh consecutive quarter. We are innovating in new areas to help organizations digitally transform. We're expanding our competitive strength in hybrid computing. We're generating opportunity for developers and partners.

To start, we added more differentiation to high-value services in Azure this quarter in three areas that are top of mind for our customers, artificial intelligence, IoT and business analytics. We expanded Cortana Intelligence Suite, our big data and analytics service that transforms data into predictions and intelligent action. It now includes over 20 cognitive services ranging from object and emotion recognition to text and linguistic analysis.

The IoT market is expanding as companies look to deliver new services and value. Our new Azure IoT suite streamlines the process of building IoT applications, and acts as the hub for managing and monitoring millions of assets. Each week, more than 2 trillion IoT messages are processed by Azure. And analytics is another rapidly growing market, where Power BI has more than 200,000 customers and 5 million users. Companies like Toyota, BMW, Johnson Controls are all using Cortana Intelligence Suite, Azure IoT, and Power BI to transform themselves as well as their industries.

Siemens is also using Azure to connect and analyze data from medical imaging systems around the world, helping providers in their effort to transform healthcare. We're the only cloud provider that helps companies embrace the cloud on their own terms, and we continue to innovate in areas that make it easier for our customers, including the recently released preview of Azure Stack, and by bringing SQL Server to Linux.

A critical part of this flexibility is giving customers tools to secure their data, wherever it is, on-premise, in the cloud, and across all their devices. We continue to grow in this market with enterprise mobility suite customers more than doubling to over 27,000. This is three consecutive quarters of triple-digit customer growth. This growth is driven by strong adoption across cloud services. For example, more than one-third of our Office 365 enterprise suite installed base has also purchased Enterprise Mobility services.

And as I said earlier, perhaps the biggest impact we can make is to empower developers. To this end, we are making Windows and Azure the very best environment for developers who want to build applications that run across multiple platforms. Our acquisition of Xamarin, and the inclusion of Bash in Windows 10 will make it easier to build intelligent experiences and apps that leverage our cloud, and run natively on Windows, iOS and Android. We're excited to announce at Build that we're making Xamarin freely available as part of Visual Studio.

Now let's move to More Personal Computing segment. We are reinventing personal computers and personal computing for the mobile-first cloud-first world. In this world, what matters most is the mobility of a person's experience, not any one single device.

As I shared last quarter, we think about our strategy along three lines. First, we will deliver more value and innovation, particularly for enterprise customers. Second, we will grow new monetization through services across the unified Windows platform. Third, we will innovate in new device categories in partnership with our OEMs.

First, let me talk through the innovation we're delivering that brings new levels of ease-of-use, trust, productivity to Windows, and specifically more value to our enterprise customers. What we hear most frequently from these customers is how much they value the advanced productivity, security, and device management capabilities in Windows 10. In fact this is what led to one of the most security-conscious organizations in the world, the United States Department of Defense, to upgrade all of their PCs and mobile devices to Windows 10 this year. We see this trend across our enterprise customers, with 83% of them in active pilots to date.

We believe enterprise deployments will continue to drive up the over 270 million monthly active devices running Windows 10. The number of Windows 10 devices is twice that of Windows 7, over the same time period since launch. At Build, we gave people more reasons to upgrade with the announcement of new features in ink and touch interfaces, as well as Windows Hello biometric security, and deeper integration with Cortana, all coming this summer with the Windows 10 anniversary update.

Second, we're seeing new monetization through services across the Windows platform. Windows Store received more than 5 billion visits. We are excited about compelling new apps coming from Disney, Square Enix, Bank of America, King, Instagram and many others. We grew the number of universal Windows app developers 60% this quarter.

In search, developers have already built over 1,000 apps designed for Cortana. These new third-party experiences, and the 6.3 billion questions people have asked are helping make Cortana smarter and driving search engagement. Over 35% of our search revenue last month came from Windows 10 devices.

In gaming, monthly active users of Xbox Live grew 26% year-over-year, driven by the growth of Xbox One and Windows 10. Xbox One continues to outpace prior generations in both reach and engagement. At the same time, we continue to create synergies between Xbox One and Windows 10 devices. Bringing top Xbox One titles to Windows Store helped grow gaming hours on Windows 10 by 50% over last quarter. And starting this summer, universal Windows apps will run on Xbox One, making it easy to build applications and games that work across devices.

Third, we continue to innovate in new device categories in partnership with our OEMs. We're pleased with the results from Surface this quarter. This is our second $1 billion revenue quarter for Surface in a row, and it's the first outside of a holiday period. Revenue grew 61% in constant currency, driven by Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book. Certainly, consumers value these devices, but where we see the strongest momentum is through adoption in the commercial space, with particular strength in financial services, manufacturing, and healthcare.

Our OEM partners are also innovating in new device areas for consumers and business customers. In particular, they too, are seeing growth in the two-in-one device category. As you can see, we think about renewing growth of Windows, we think broadly about where growth can come from. We see early signs of success in Windows driving increased engagement and monetization of services like search, store and gaming, as well as new sources of revenue from Surface. As we build premium devices and premium categories, we're also stimulating demand across our entire ecosystem.

Ultimately, the largest potential for Microsoft's growth will come through reinvention of personal computers and personal computing, as well as the new platforms we create. This broader mobile-first cloud-first opportunity cuts across all of our financial segments and technology ambition. And this is what we shared with developers at Build, and with business leaders at EnVision a few weeks ago. I hope you have had the chance to watch these events as well.

We are creating entirely new ways for people to interact with technology, and also new ways for them to build technology. HoloLens developer kit is one such example. Organizations around the world like Volvo and NASA are using HoloLens to redefine what it means to build and explore, and Case Western University is redefining how students learn to be world-class surgeons.

Conversational interfaces is another example. We envision a world where people will more naturally interact with their devices in the future through conversation. Imagine simply asking Cortana to book a hotel, or being able to order a pizza through an instant message in Skype. Conversations will be a new platform that every business, every app, and every website will begin to embrace, and we're at the forefront driving this platform shift. We are building out cloud services and platform to enable every business, across every industry to digitally transform themselves, and in turn build their own capability to create more digital technology.

Empowering people and organizations to thrive in this digital world is central to Microsoft's mission. I'm proud of our execution so far, and what we have achieved, and I'm also grounded in the work ahead of us. With that, I'll hand over to Amy to go through this quarter's results in greater detail, and share our outlook for the next quarter. And I look forward to rejoining you, after that to answer questions.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. This quarter, revenue was $22.1 billion, up 2%, and up 5% in constant currency. Gross margin declined slightly, but was up 4% in constant currency. We grew operating income this quarter by 1%, and 10% in constant currency. And earnings per share was $0.62, flat year-over-year, and up 10% in constant currency. Our effective tax rate was 24%, higher than we anticipated, which impacted our EPS.

From a geographic perspective, our performance in most markets was as anticipated. However, Latin America, the Middle East and Africa were more unfavorable than we expected. In our commercial business, we continued to see healthy fundamentals which led to a solid quarter of results. Commercial bookings increased 7%, up 9% in constant currency.

Our total commercial annuity business had double-digit revenue growth in constant currency, and commercial annuity mix reached 86%, up 4 points year-over-year. Commercial unearned revenue grew to just under $18.8 billion, up 3% and 8% in constant currency, slightly below expectations due to a higher mix of contracts with more in-period recognition, and some deal weakness in the geographic markets mentioned earlier. Our contracted not billed balance again exceeded $25 billion. Most important, as Satya mentioned earlier, our commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate surpassed $10 billion.

This quarter, more than 65% of customers who signed enterprise agreements attached our commercial cloud offers, up 15 points from last year. Our customers continue to make long-term commitments based on our compelling road map. Our commercial cloud gross margin was 45% this quarter, declining year-over-year. This decrease was driven by a higher mix of Azure revenue, our ongoing investment in data center capacity and geographic expansion, and a small FX headwind.

As I mentioned last quarter, even as we're focused on gross margin improvement within each of our key cloud services, our total commercial cloud gross margin will reflect the dynamics of change in revenue mix, and targeted investment. In Q3, the FX impact of 3 points on year-over-year revenue growth was generally in line with the guidance, as the recent weakening in the US dollar created less than 1 point of impact overall, and across segments.

As Chris explained earlier, we're not able to provide constant currency impact at the segment level for operating expenses, and therefore segment operating income. In general, FX had a favorable impact of 1 point on operating expenses at the total Company level. As expected, our Company gross margin percentage declined this quarter, driven by our accelerating mix of cloud services, in our intelligent cloud, and productivity and business processes segment, offset by higher gross margin percentage performance from products within More Personal Computing.

Now to our segment results. This quarter, our productivity and business processes segment delivered in line with our expectations, with $6.5 billion in revenue increasing 1% and 6% in constant currency, with higher annuity mix offsetting lower transactional weakness results due to a weaker PC market. In office commercial, revenue was flat, and grew 7% in constant currency, driven by continued momentum in Office 365, with installed base growth across Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and Skype Workloads. Our channel again expanded this quarter, as more than 85,000 transacting partners sold Office 365 to small business customers.

Office consumer revenue increased 3% and 6% in constant currency, due to an increasing base of subscribers and recurring subscription revenue, and our dynamics business grew 4%, up 9% in constant currency. We more than doubled CRM online seats for the sixth consecutive quarter. Segment gross margin dollars declined 4%, up 1% in constant currency.

As we've discussed, gross margin percentage declined on a higher cloud services revenue mix within the segment. Operating expenses decreased 1%, even as we continued engineering investments in our Office 365 and dynamics businesses, and prioritized spend in growth areas like E5, security and voice capabilities. As a result, operating income declined 7%.

The intelligent cloud segment delivered $6.1 billion in revenue, which grew 3% and 8% in constant currency, just at the low end of our guidance range. Our total server products and cloud services revenue was flat year-over-year, and increased 5% in constant currency against a prior year comparable that had 16% constant currency growth. This quarter, our enterprise server customers continued their commitment to our hybrid cloud platform offerings, which resulted in double-digit annuity revenue growth in constant currency, including over 100% growth in Azure. That growth was partially offset by a larger than expected decline in our transactional on-premise server business, which impacted the in-quarter results.

Enterprise services continued to perform well, with 11% revenue growth or 15% in constant currency, driven by customer demand for our support services and solutions. Gross margin declined 2%, and grew 3% in constant currency. Gross margin percentage declined, as cloud mix accelerated, offsetting margin improvements in Azure and enterprise services.

In response to enterprise customer demand, and to increase our share in the cloud market, we grew operating expenses by 13% through Azure-focused investments across engineering, additional sales and marketing capacity, and the acquisition of Xamarin. This quarter, operating income declined 14%.

Now to our final segment, More Personal Computing. Revenue exceeded our expectations at $9.5 billion, up 1% and 3% in constant currency. First, our OEM results. Our total OEM business declined 2% this quarter, outperforming the overall PC market which was weaker than we expected. OEM non-Pro revenue increased 15%, driven primarily by a higher than expected mix of premium devices. OEM Pro revenue underperformed the commercial PC market, declining 11%, due to the higher inventory level in Q2, that I mentioned in my last earnings commentary.

Windows volume licensing grew 6% in constant currency, and IP licensing continued to decline, impacted by both a decrease in total unit volume, and a higher mix of lower royalty units. As expected, devices revenue decreased this quarter. Revenue declined 11% or 9% in constant currency, primarily due to phone, where revenue declined 46% in constant currency. Additionally, sell-through of our Lumia products was weak, and we exited the quarter with relatively high channel inventory. As Satya mentioned, momentum in our Surface business continued, as revenue increased 56% or 61% in constant currency, with strong commercial and consumer demand for our Surface lineup. Overall, device gross margin dollars grew, and gross margin percentage improved, primarily driven by a shift to our higher gross margin Surface portfolio.

Our search business remains strong this quarter, with growth driven by higher revenue per search, and higher search volume. We again had US PC share growth, and search continued to be profitable. In gaming, revenue grew 4% or 6% in constant currency, with continued progress in the monetization of our installed base. We saw higher revenue from Xbox Live, driven by both higher volumes of transactions, and higher revenue per transaction, as well as an increase in revenue from our gaming studios. As expected, Xbox hardware revenue declined, mainly driven by lower Xbox 360 consoles sold, and lower Xbox One pricing.

Segment gross margin increased 2% or 6% in constant currency, driven primarily by gross margin percentage improvements in devices and gaming. Operating expenses decreased 14%, primarily through our actions in phone, and the transition of our display business to AOL. As a result, segment operating income grew 57%.

Now back to our overall Company results. As planned, we accelerated our data center and cloud services investments to meet growing global demand. This quarter, we invested $2.3 billion in total capital expenditures, including an increase of 65% year-over-year primarily for data centers and servers. Other income was negative $247 million, driven by interest expense and net losses on derivatives, partially offset by dividends, interest income, and net recognized gains on investments.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 24%, higher than we expected, which reflected the changing mix of revenue across geographies, as well as an accelerating shift in revenue from software licensing to cloud services. The rate for the quarter included a catch-up adjustment from Q1 and Q2, reflecting the new full-year -- the new expected full-year non-GAAP effective tax rate. This quarter, we returned $6.4 billion to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends.

Now let's move to the outlook. First on FX, consistent with our guidance last quarter, we still expect FX to negatively impact year-over-year growth in Q4 by 3 points. By segment, we expect 3 points of impact on productivity and business processes, 3 points in intelligent cloud, and 2 points in More Personal Computing.

Second, our commercial business. Our commercial business will be on pace for continued strong annuity growth, as both new and existing enterprise customers adopt and use our growing portfolio of cloud services. Even with projections of tightening global IT spend and currency headwinds, we expect commercial unearned revenue to be $24.3 billion to $24.5 billion, in line with historic seasonality. We remain on track toward our $20 billion commercial cloud revenue run rate goal, as we grow revenue, drive consumption, and focus on gross margin improvement in Office 365, Azure and Dynamics online. Finally, we will continue our investment in data centers and capital equipment to address customer demand for our cloud services.

With that, let me share our view by segment. In productivity and business processes, we expect revenue to be $6.5 billion to $6.7 billion, with continued annuity shift to the cloud, offsetting the impact of a weaker PC market on our transactional business in our consumer and commercial segments. In intelligent cloud, we expect revenue between $6.5 billion to $6.7 billion, driven by annuity growth, offset by continued transactional weakness.

In More Personal Computing, we expect revenue between $8.7 billion and $9 billion. Here's a bit more detail on its individual components. In Windows, we expect our OEM Pro revenue to be largely in line with the commercial PC market. Our non-Pro revenue is expected to be above the consumer PC market, similar to what we saw in Q3, primarily due to the continued benefit from a strong mix of premium devices.

In devices, we anticipate continued momentum and growth for Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, particularly with business customers. For phone, we expect year-over-year revenue declines to steepen in Q4, as we work through our Lumia channel position. In search, we will continue to show healthy revenue growth, with full-year profitability. Finally in gaming, we expect to see continued healthy user engagement on our Xbox platform, and we look forward to E3, where we will announce new titles for the upcoming fiscal year.

We expect COGS to be $7.8 billion to $7.9 billion. We expect operating expenses between $8.2 billion and $8.3 billion. Our full-year guidance is now down to $31 billion to $31.1 billion, as we concentrate our investments in engineering and technical sales, to accelerate our cloud growth heading into the next fiscal year.

We expect other income and expenses to be negative $200 million in Q4. This includes the net cost of hedging and interest expense, offset by dividend and interest income. For tax, based on trends reflected in this quarter's full-year catch-up adjustment, we expect our Q4 effective tax rate to be 21% and 23%. We expect our full-year effective tax rate to be between 20% and 21%.

Before I wrap up, I'd like to share a few directional comments on FY17. This year, we saw strong growth in our commercial cloud portfolio, and we grew our annuity penetration across our commercial business. We anticipate those trends will continue next fiscal year, driving our revenue growth, and impacting our gross margin percentages.

As we continue to unify and modernize our Windows installed base across our business customers, we will advance our progress in our post sale monetization scenarios, and execute on the Windows 10 enterprise deployment opportunity. Throughout FY16, our significant investment in engineering, sales and marketing has positioned us to support our customers' digital transformations, and to innovate in device form factors like Surface and HoloLens. In FY17, we expect to continue that investment, and reallocation process, therefore total operating expenses should be flat to up slightly. I look forward to sharing more on our FY17 plans in July. With that, Chris, let's go to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We will now move to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Amy, just on the Q4 guide. You're guiding below the Street on many of the individual line items on the top line. I'm just curious, is this more of the shift to the cloud, or is there some demand execution issues that you're seeing in the business?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent. It's really, as we talked about, transactional weakness in productivity and business process. We're continuing to expect strong annuity growth. We're continuing to expect a strong mix to the cloud. We're continuing to expect ARPU increases, premium mix increases, and installed base growth. So really, in that segment, it's the PC weakness, and our traditional transactional office business that's impacting that segment.

In intelligent cloud, it's a very similar dynamic. We're expecting renewal rates to remain strong as they've been. We're expecting the mix to Azure to continue to grow. We're expecting annuity double-digit revenue growth. And again, it's the transactional weakness that you're seeing overall, as well some -- the very specific geo weakness that we saw, which I called out earlier.

And in More Personal Computing, the largest change in that segment is frankly the phone. So I would really focus on that in that segment. The rest of it, frankly, is quite good.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Brent. We'll take the next question now, please?

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks for taking my question, and congrats on a great quarter. I just want to focus in on Office here. Obviously, you called out Office 365 commercial suite growing 57% year-over-year, so very consistent with what your last quarter was. And Satya, you mentioned the mix shift as well with the release of E5. Wonder if you can just provide some color there, sort of a I guess, a grade of where you are right now? And then, as you're contemplating guidance for Q4, and then thinking about 2017, how should we think -- or how are you guys thinking about that Office 365 transition there, sort of units and pricing?

SATYA NADELLA: I can start, and then Amy, you can add. Overall, the thing that we are most focused on with Office 365 is how do we make sure that we have the Office 365 endpoints everywhere and good usage. And I talked about how the mobile endpoints has been growing, and the mobile usage has been growing. I also talked about the 70 million monthly active users of Office. So we feel very good about that, which is users, both in terms of coverage and usage.

The next place where we're very focused on is really the new scenarios, and E5 is obviously a big element of it. I talked about it in some detail, the security value proposition. That is really showing a lot of good traction for us, but we're also seeing traction in analytics and voice. So we're in the very early innings of E5, but the value proposition and the TAM, or the total addressable market of those three scenarios is huge. And so, we remain very excited about it.

The other thing that I'm also excited about, when it comes to Office 365, is for the first time we're opening up Office 365. Not just as an end-user, and a enterprise tool and a service, but as a developer platform. In its own right, we think of Office as perhaps one of the most strategic developer assets we have, and with the Microsoft Graph API, and what we see as activity around it. We think about the platform effects of that, as also being very key. So that's, at least at the macro level, how I look at it. And Amy, if you want to talk a little more about it ?

AMY HOOD: And I think that the way that shows itself in our financial results is, you'd expect to continue to see the strong mix shift to the cloud. You'd expect to continue to see installed base growth, as even some of the items Satya talked about have more relevance, and continue to make us, the value prop higher, even in small business, which is where you've seen new user adds. I would continue to expect to see ARPU growth, as we see E5 have its impact through the year. And so, think about these same dynamics, Phil, for us, where we focus on new users, and ARPU increases, as we shift to Office 365, those are trends I'd expect to see, obviously as we look into 2017.

PHILIP WINSLOW: Great. Thanks, guys.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Phil. We will take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mark Moerdler, Bernstein Research.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Sure. Thank you very much. So if you look at productivity and process and intelligent cloud, obviously we're having a margin decrease that's occurring, and a good chunk of that is cloud. How should we think about the standalone license business, in terms of the margins, separated from the cloud side of it?

AMY HOOD: The standalone margins on the licensing business have been pretty stable. Just because transactionally, we understand and continue to bring down the fixed cost base there, and any that's required. So I don't feel like you'd expect any material change in those, Mark.

MARK MOERDLER: Okay. I appreciate. Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Mark. We'll take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you so much. Satya, I wanted to see if you could share a little bit on Azure? Just how you're thinking about the competitive positioning, versus Amazon, where you think your strengths are, versus them? And also, as the business continues to ramp at such a fast pace, how do we think about the progression in gross margins? I mean, Amazon gives us operating margins. But I guess, I'm wondering, is there a reason you shouldn't be able to reach similar operating margins with Azure at a similar scale, if we went back and looked at the progression that Amazon's been disclosing?

SATYA NADELLA: Sure, Heather. Thanks for the question. First of all, when Amy and I think about both our CapEx, as well as our OpEx, both on the engineering side, as well as on our sales and marketing side, we think about this still at a Microsoft cloud level. Just because if you take something like enterprise mobility suite, that gives you an indication of how, for example, we attach to Office 365, essentially an infrastructure service that hasn't [SaaS-like] margins. Or even some of our application services in Azure that attach to office developer experiences. So we think about this part more holistically, and same thing with dynamics.

But having said that, if -- to your specific question, of where our differentiation lies? The first one is hybrid. Most people think about hybrid where, they think about the cloud as the edge of their server. We obviously support that with all of our service. Every server product of ours has cloud enrollment rights, whether it be SQL, whether it be Windows server, and you'll see that increasingly, even in this next wave of servers.

But we also think of, in fact, our servers as the edge of our cloud. That I think is where the world is going to go to, where distributed computing will remain distributors. So Azure Stack is completely unique to Microsoft. No one else who is in the public cloud business at any scale has that kind of capability. So, I would say that's another point of differentiation.

So to your point about margins, I feel that we actually will have software licenses with hybrid rights. That's a different margin structure. We will have [IAS] services, and you talked about the existence proof, at least from Amazon about what margins at scale can be achieved there. We have PaaS services in infrastructure like EMS that have SaaS-like rev margins. And then, of course, we have SaaS services in Office 365.

So I think the mix of our gross -- or rather that mix will define a long-term gross margin, and operating margin for our cloud services. But the mix will also shift each quarter, just because the mix is not a stable mix, we'll see growth in different in parts, at different times.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Heather. We will go to the next one, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking my question. Amy, when you're talking about the transactional declines particularly (technical difficulty) and the server portion of that, can you help us understand how much of that is due to maybe more macro factors, weaker overall spending environment, and how much of that comes from perhaps demand being reallocated towards infrastructure-as-a-service offerings that you guys have in Azure? Is there something of a cannibalization taking place, within that transactional business today?

AMY HOOD: Keith, that's good question. Let me go through a number of factors that really impact transactional business. First, you're right. There's clearly a macro impact, especially on the transactional business. Transactional businesses tend to be more impacted in emerging markets, where we have a higher percentage of new -- of non-annuity business as transactional business. Those have been the weakest markets in this macro environment, and specifically some of the geos we called out have more exposure in this place. And so, you're certainly seeing the macro impact in the intelligent cloud segment, in the server weaknesses there.

And because frankly, we saw that macro weakness, you've even seen it, in terms of server shipments, right? If you look at server shipments, you'd say that's actually a macro statement. We didn't see it any one particular workload. It's weakness across workloads, which tends to make more sense, frankly, with a macro or a budget IT spend constraint.

And so, I actually think between those two items, it's the biggest impact that we've seen in the quarter. And I expect to see it again next quarter, given I don't think the macro or IT spend environment should change in any way between these two quarters. So I think less about it being cannibalistic, because so many of the scenarios in this time period, we've seen the growth we expected. We've seen it across our premium services, as well as core compute. I should also say most of the weakness we saw was in the standard workloads, which I think lends itself again to some of those pressures.

We also saw and I would expect annuity shifts there, which is the final component. Our annuity numbers and renewal numbers were very good in intelligent cloud. And in fact, they came right where we expected, in terms of unearned balances. And so, for me I do tend to think it's a bit more on the macro pressure and budget impacts than it is, frankly, any other statement or execution.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. That's very helpful.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Keith. We'll take the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Karl Keirstead, Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Amy, this one for you. I wouldn't mind asking about the gross margin guidance. If I take the midpoint of your revenue guidance, the midpoint of your COGS guidance, it looks like you're guiding to another roughly 200 basis point decline in gross margins in the June quarter, which is about what you did in March.

So if we look out to FY17, I know you touched on it a little bit, but just to be clear, it feels like you're guiding to a further year-over-year decline in gross margins. But it sounds like that will be offset in part by a continued good OpEx control. So is that the right way to think about it? And is there any way that you could sort of bracket what the gross margin percentage decline might be in FY17? You probably don't want to give specific guidance, but maybe some high level color? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Directional. Karl, thanks for the question. And you're right, in general, and let me spend a few seconds on that. You're right, we saw about a 200 basis point change this quarter. It's entirely due to the shift to the cloud, both in our productivity and business process segment, as well as the intelligent cloud segment. Those are the exact same drivers in the gross margin change that we guided to in Q4. And I would expect stability as we've seen it, in our More Personal Computing segment.

And so, as you think about 2017, with the continued acceleration of our cloud mix, and actually continued momentum in annuity, I would to see the same -- the same pressures continue to exist. And you're right, in that our strong operating expense focus, because really this is the quarter when you've been able to see actually in Q2 and Q3 now, us really pivoting that investment in OpEx to our intelligent cloud, and the opportunity we see there across engineering, sales and marketing. And you're right, we do expect to see, and continue to do that as we lead into 2017, within the overall envelope I discussed.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Great. Thanks, Amy.

AMY HOOD: Thanks.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Carl. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks. Amy, my question just on guidance, and your posture on guidance, a two-part question. I think we've seen you give very conservative guidance say, for the first half of the year. And in Q3, you ended up, putting it all together, at the lower end of your guidance. And I'm wondering -- your posture, just generally around guidance, if it's changed at all, that you're factoring in things differently, and we should think about that range going forward? Should it be more like it's been in the past, where you've had very conservative assumptions, or more like what you just did here?

And then, the second part is, as you look forward maybe towards longer-term guidance, and the prospects of giving longer-term guidance, because I don't think I've seen an estimate spread on a company as large as this, in a long time, how are you thinking about possibly giving long-term guidance? What the factors that are influencing your comfort in doing that? Or is it more philosophical, and it's something you're just not going to do, that's not necessarily dependent on your view of the business?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Walter. My philosophical position doesn't change much. I give the guidance that I expect for the quarter, and I do it on the earnings call to the best of my ability.

What you've seen this quarter is in fact the biggest in-quarter delta for us all the time is the non-annuity performance, than in our -- all of our segments, that is transactional business, that is the most impacted in quarter, by budget changes or macro changes. And so, the inherent volatility that you are talking about really, is about changes in quarter that we see and the impact of that.

So I don't think it's a philosophical shift. It's just where you see volatility in quarter has always been in the transactional side of our business. The guidance we gave in our annuity positions, in terms of renewals and where we saw them were exactly, frankly, what we expected, with the small exception of the geos that I called out. So I tend to think -- I'll talk a little bit about 2017, as I always do come July, give you all more of a shape to that. But I tend to think, I would like to focus on where the Company is going, which is cloud mix shift, annuity growth, and overall world view of bringing Windows and the ecosystem growth through MPC.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Walter. We'll take one more, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Ross MacMillan, RBC Capital.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks a lot. Amy, I just wanted to go back on the intelligent cloud. We did see that deceleration in server product growth, but the comp was very tough. And as you commented, your annuity was up, and your deferred growth accelerated. That server product line has grown about 5% constant currency in the last 12 months.

I guess the question is, is there any structural reason why, going back to Keith's question, why that would decelerate more ex macro? And then, another question I just had that's related to this. Can you just remind us, in the server product ex Azure line, and in the commercial office traditional non 365 line, how much is transactional in those two segments? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Sure. Ross, let me try to take this. The first question around, is there anything structural or different in that server product line? Really, it has been, and is that transactional component. You're right, we continue to see the annuity growth. We continue see the growth through Azure, and the offset to that has been the transactional business.

I'm not sure that I would say that there's any structural reason, other than -- that's changed my world view, other than maybe the budget and macro pressure tends to exert itself on that transactional business. But overall, continuing to see the renewals we've seen, continuing to see the cloud growth we've seen, I'm not sure I think of it as a fundamental trajectory change, outside of that component we discussed.

In terms of overall, rough orders of magnitude, the intelligent cloud segment has the least exposure to the transactional business. It's still less than 20%, but that 20%, right, lends itself in quarter to the volatility you see. The productivity and business process segment has a bit more transactional exposure, just because it has both the consumer and commercial office business, which is more attached on a transactional basis to PCs. So it's slightly higher, all up.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Ross. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Kash Rangan, Bank of America Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, a question for Amy. Amy, you've been able to grow your Op income on a constant currency basis nicely double-digits, as you've been investing in the cloud. As you look at the results this quarter, and the -- as you pointed out the Op margins in intelligent cloud and business process productivity that were impacted due to the shift to the cloud, do you think that as you look into next year that the cloud business is at scale, that it continues to grow and take share, relative to overall revenue?

The transaction business, who knows, it could be a bit of a macro pressure. Do you think that we're at the point where we could continue to entertain a scenario, that Op income could still continues to grow nicely, as it has in the last three, four quarters? Or is there some other structural change, with respect to the margin of the cloud business, or maybe the transaction business drops off a lot more dramatically, that it may be hard to sustain this nice double-digit Op income, at a very high level without going into the details? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Yes, at a very high level, Kash, let me talk about the opportunity. The opportunity for us, across what the cloud mix is possible for our commercial business, and this moment in time that I'm a believer in, of where companies are going to change their businesses to rely more deeply on technology than they ever have. I believe that our setup for that is the investments we've been making for the past couple years, as well as the investments we're going to make for the next couple. I mean that, both in the capital concept, but also in my operating expense line.

We've managed to do that by continuing to pivot to what I believe are these very high ROI opportunities, and pivoting away from opportunities where we've had a chance to become more efficient, and where the returns are not going to be as high, or the structural growth, it isn't there. And so for me, at a -- to your point, at a high level, I think we can continue to drive revenue, especially annuity and cloud revenue. I think we can continue to improve gross margin percentages in the cloud, across all the core cloud services.

I think that we can grow profit dollars, and I think that we can do that, and the OpEx guidance I gave you from 2017, as we continue to pivot to that opportunity. So, I think this is one where my optimism, frankly, for the structure of the market in the segment you chose, and my optimism for our positioning within that market is reflected in that investment number that you have seen. And so, I would continue to expect to see us do it.

KASH RANGAN: It's good to see that you still expect profit to grow, because this seems like the new Microsoft, where you're balancing the need to invest strategically, but at the same time trying to grow profits in the near-term, versus the old Microsoft, where the investments were made, but with more of a longer term, quote/unquote, you never knew when the payoff was supposed -- was going to happen. So it's good to see you emphasize that you're still focused on profit growth, notwithstanding the mix of factors that you cannot forecast.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Kash. We'll go to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mark Murphy, JPMorgan.

MARK MURPHY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you very much. Satya, regarding the announcement that you will release your SQL Server database on the Linux platform. I was wondering if you can walk us through your decision tree, just in terms of what you think the potential risks are, and what you think the potential rewards are of reaching for that level of openness, if you will. And just how impactful do you think that that product can be in enhancing Microsoft's share of the database market?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for the question. So the decision logic was driven primarily by what I would say is the increased competitiveness of SQL Server. If you think about where SQL Server now, with this new release, SQL Server 2016, it's become a fantastic database for many, many of the workloads, everything from OLTP to data warehousing, to BI, to advanced analytics. For the Tier 1, this is a capability that's been multiple decades in the work, but here we are, with very competitive total cost of ownership, price competitiveness, but with a technology that's in many cases, as Gartner talks about, at the top of the charts, when it comes to all of these workloads.

So now that we find ourselves with that capability, we're saying, look, what's the way to think about market, all the markets that we can, in fact, take this product to. And the Linux operating system database market is not something that, which is mostly, primarily a Tier 1 segment, is something that we've never worked in. And so, therefore, we look at that as an expansion opportunity, so we take that. We already made the call that Azure for Linux is first-class. We already have 20-plus points of -- 20%-plus of VNs in Azure are Linux, and we'll all increasingly have Linux, be a big share of our of percentage of what is happening in Azure.

So for the first time now, we have the ability to go to an enterprise, and talk about their entire data estate across Windows and Linux. Now people don't really move between operating systems. Those choices have been made, but they, at the same time, now they have a choice around database. And so, we think that that's a very good incremental opportunity for us.

MARK MURPHY: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Mark. We'll have time for one more question, operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Kirk Materne, Evercore ISI.

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks very much, and thanks for squeezing me in. Satya, I wanted to talk a little bit just about the ISV ecosystem on top of Azure, and where you think that is today, and where you'd hope that potentially to be in 12 months, when we think about the opportunity around sort of platform-as-a-service, and building out more enterprise apps? I think you made some comments around some IoT applications that are now sitting on Azure.

What is sort of a good -- what should we be looking for in terms of new partners? On, from a survey, ISV perspective, you've had companies like BlackBox who re-platformed? I'm wondering, do you expect that momentum to potentially accelerate, as we get further into the calendar year? Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Yes. Thanks for the question. I mean, I think the overall for me, across all of our product lines, whether it be Windows or whether it'd be Office 365 or Azure, developer momentum, ISV momentum is super important priority for us, both in terms of our developer evangelism, our product engineering teams, as well as everything that we will do to even create success for our partners, through our field sales organization is a top of mind priority. And this is something that Kevin Turner, myself, and Amy, and all of our leadership team is very focused on. So you will only increasingly see us deliver more design wins there.

In fact, I'm looking forward to our partner conference, to talk much more about what it is that we will be doing in the coming year, to drive more success for our partners, and in particular, ISVs. The thing that I'm seeing a lot of, is we've had traditional strength with SQL as well as dot-net. They are moving a significant number of them to the cloud, and in fact replatting, to be even multi-tenant cloud native.

At the same time, we're also seeing a lot of open source ISVs also join -- be part of the Azure marketplace. If you go up to the Azure marketplace, surely you will see that. So we are not only bringing people who have traditionally worked with us, helping them replat to a completely new model, but we're also bringing a lot of new ISVs into the fold as well. And that's pretty exciting to see.

KIRK MATERNE: Great. Thanks a lot.

CHRIS SUH: Great. Thanks, Kirk. So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will be webcast at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. Thanks for joining us today.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you very much.

AMY HOOD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160422ec4l009n9
  


 HD
 Q2  2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,505 words
   PD
28 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's second-quarter FY16 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.

On our website, microsoft.com/investor you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.

Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on today's call. The non-GAAP measures exclude the net impact from revenue deferrals and the impact of integration and restructuring charges. The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company's second-quarter performance, in addition to the impact of these items and events had on the financial results.

All growth comparisons we make on the call relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. We also provide growth rates in constant currency, when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying businesses performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. At the segment level we provide constant currency growth for both revenue and gross margin. However, due to recent change in our segment reporting groupings we aren't able to provide segment level constant currency operating expense growth. And consequently cannot derive constant currency segment operating income either. We do provide constant currency operating expense and operating income growth at the Company-wide level.

Please note that we have recast certain prior period items to conform to the current period presentation with no impact on consolidated net income or cash flow. Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnotes of our form 10Q and includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but excludes the impact of last year's integration and restructuring charges.

We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included on our live transmission, in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until January 27, 2017.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our form 10K, form 10Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you Chris. Good afternoon everyone. Today Amy and I will share the results of our second quarter and look ahead.

Overall this quarter we had solid performance, and more importantly drove growth in areas that are key to our future. We delivered $25.7 billion in revenue with an operating income of $7.9 billion. We continue to advance towards our goals for FY18. Our commercial cloud run rate surpassed $9.4 billion, up over 70% year over year, and almost halfway to our goal of $20 billion. We nearly doubled our cloud customers over the last 12 months.

We also made progress towards our goal of more than $1 billion Windows 10 monthly active devices. We crossed the 200 million milestone, and Windows 10 is outpacing adoption of any of our previous operating systems. In fact, adoption is nearly 140% faster than Windows 7. I appreciate the incredible work and focus of both Microsoft team members and our partners to deliver these results.

Now let's get to the specifics for each of the three segments, starting with Productivity and Business Process. As we seek to help people get more out of every moment, we're delivering new innovation and seeing new opportunity with Office 365. Consumer response to Office is strong. Office attach rate is up. Office 2016 adoption is outperforming Office 2013 over the same period of time. And consumer subscriptions are up to more than 20 million. We are also enthusiastic about how people use Office on other platforms. On iOS and Android, Skype is more than 900 million downloads and Office apps surpass 340 million this quarter. There also 13 million iOS and Android active devices running Outlook.

Office 365 Commercial revenue grew nearly 70% in constant currency, while seats grew 59%. It is clear customers value the ongoing innovation we're delivering in Office 365 and this allows us to advance further into markets like voice and information protection. In December we released a major update to Skype for Business which drives productivity up and costs down. Our customers can now use Skype for Business to get a dial tone without the need of their own PBX and conduct online meetings for up to 10,000 attendees.

Security is both a mandate and an opportunity for Microsoft across all of our segments. As customers look to protect themselves, we are creating new demand for all of our security solutions. The number of people using our information protection capabilities built into Office 365 increased 25% quarter over quarter. At the same time, we released new capabilities like advanced [ware] protection, advanced E-discovery and customer lock box. These new innovations in voice and information protection accrue to our premium productivity and collaboration skew, E5, which we released last month.

Our Dynamics business is also contributing to our growth in the cloud. This quarter we released major updates to Dynamics NAV and Dynamics CRM, both of which deliver enhancements in mobility, insights, and organizational productivity as well as deeper integration with Azure and Office 365. Three out of four of our CRM customers are choosing to deploy in the cloud, which is driving continued triple digit paid seat growth for CRM online in the enterprise.

Our momentum with Office 365 and Dynamics creates a compelling case for developers. This quarter we exposed the data APIs which capture the relationships between people, conversations, projects, schedules, processes and content. We call these APIs the Microsoft Graph. The ability for developers to build on the Microsoft Graph presents a strategic opportunity for customers and partners. Smartsheet has already taken advantage of these APIs. Oracle plans to use Microsoft Graph to enhance their line of business applications, like Oracle Sales Cloud, and many innovative startups are extending it to create new generation of productivity applications.

Now let's move to the Intelligent Cloud segment. The enterprise cloud opportunity is massive, larger than any market we have ever participated in. Last quarter I reflected on how we are now one of the two leaders in this space. At the same time, we are the only one in this market providing SaaS, PasS, IaaS and hybrid cloud at scale. We are growing in each of these areas simultaneously.

Our unique approach is resonating. Our cloud architecture reflects real-world distributed cloud computing needs and services that enable businesses to convert data into intelligence and drive business transformation. Azure revenue grew 140% this quarter in constant currency, with revenue coming from new and existing customers. We saw organizations like NTT DOCOMO, Honeywell, NASA's jet propulsion labs, Dow Chemical and the UN Development Program deploy innovative solutions on Azure.

We see that Azure customers who also purchase Office 365 consume 8 times more Azure than other customers. More than 70% of the Fortune 500 have at least two different Microsoft cloud offerings, up 13 points year over year. And now we are continuing to grow in new ways. Together with Red Hat, Dell and Hewlett-Packard Enterprise, we will increase our ability to address real-world infrastructure needs. These partnerships give customers the flexibility to connect their existing on-premise infrastructure or Linux-based applications based applications with our cloud.

We are leading innovation in new agile and DevOps workloads as well, with Azure app services, power apps and Visual Studio team services where we surpassed 3.8 million developer subscriptions. We are adding thousands of new developers every day who are building cloud and mobile solutions that support industries like oil and gas, finance, e-commerce, consulting, and healthcare. As we expand into new markets our revenue from premium services like security, mobility, management, and analytics nearly tripled year over year. Enterprise mobility solution customers have more than doubled year over year, and we have nearly tripled our share among Fortune 500 in the last 12 months.

Security is now a major driver of the cloud adoption. As threats become more frequent and sophisticated, Azure's unique technologies like Machine Learning, empower customers to adapt to these new realities. This quarter we organized the Enterprise Cyber Security Group to help customers prepare for and respond to attacks. We unveiled plans for new data centers in Germany and the UK that address customers' data access and sovereignty needs. And we continue to release new capabilities like advanced threat analytics as part of our $1 billion product innovation and security spanning Azure, Office 365, Windows 10 and our enterprise mobility suite.

At the heart of every business in the future will be systems of intelligence, powerful AI that helps people understand the past and predict the future. Cortana Analytics is the building block for these systems of intelligence. We released Cortana Analytics last July. It's a comprehensive suite of services that enable businesses to reason over massive quantities of data that emanate from connected people, places, and things and converts them into intelligent insights and automation. Coca-Cola, Russell Reynolds, and the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Health System already use Cortana Analytics to dramatically change the way they market products to customers, uncover talent in the workforce and offer patients predictive and more personalized healthcare. Our goal is to make it possible for every company in every industry and every country to take advantage of this new artificial intelligence to transform.

In the More Personal Computing segment I'm encouraged by our progress to unify our install base on Windows 10 and to create new opportunities for Microsoft and our entire ecosystem. As of this month we crossed 200 million active devices running Windows 10. Near term, in what analysts predicts will be relative flat market over this next year, we're focused on three ways to drive growth for our partners and for Microsoft. First, deliver more value and innovation, particularly for enterprise customers who need advanced productivity, security, and device management. Second, grow new monetization through services across a unified Windows platform. Third, continue to innovate in new device categories in partnership with our OEMs.

Let me briefly expand on each. First, in November we released the first major update of Windows 10 with solutions designed to address critical business scenarios: security, manageability and ease of deployment. More than 76% of our enterprise customers are in active pilots, including organizations like Kimberly-Clark and Alaska Airlines, and 22 million enterprise and education devices are already running Windows 10. We are well-positioned to grow our commercial device footprint in the second half.

Next, as we unify and grow the Windows 10 platform we grow new monetization opportunities with the Windows store, search, and gaming. This holiday season we doubled Windows store paid transactions from PC and tablets customers. This increase is an outgrowth of Windows 10 monthly active devices all up and the addition of new Windows 10 applications. This quarter Netflix, Pandora, Uber, Wall Street Journal, NPR released new apps designed to take advantage of Windows 10 experiences. For example, you can ask Cortana to recognize a song on Shazam, play a movie on Netflix or book a ride via Uber.

With search, the clearest indicator of our progress is US search share, where Bing now exceeds 21%. Nearly 30% of our search revenue in December came from Windows 10 devices, partly as a result of user engagement with Cortana. We are seeing increased search engagement and monetization on Windows 10 over previous versions.

This holiday we saw record engagement on Xbox Live. Active users grew to an all-time high of 48 million across consoles and PCs. On December 28 we had more fans using Xbox Live that any of the other day in the Xbox history. Clearly with Xbox One now upgraded to Windows 10 our vibrant community joined the Windows ecosystem.

Our games also performed strongly this quarter. We doubled the number of Xbox One gamers playing Microsoft-published titles year over year. Minecraft concluded the holiday as the top paid app globally on Windows 10, iOS and Android. And we grew monthly active users by 18% year over year.

Lastly, we are innovating in new device categories and driving growth. With Surface we created a new type of device, the two-in-one, and partners are now bringing similar devices to market with success. At the same time this was the best quarter for Surface ever with over $1.3 billion in sales, driven by the launch of surface Pro 4 and the initial rollout of our brand-new Surface Book. We see more opportunity ahead with Surface Book coming soon to China, Japan, the UK, France, Germany and other markets in Europe and Asia.

We believe in our ability to grow the Windows ecosystem. Near term we are taking the right steps. We are also clear that long-term Windows growth and vibrancy rests on our ability to reinvent personal computers and personal computing. We accept the challenge as we see it as one of the greatest opportunities to prudently expand into new markets and generate shareholder value.

Before turning over to Amy, I want to briefly reflect on the past few months. I've had the opportunity to meet with customers from all over the globe and observe the effects of the macroeconomic trends impacting business today. Of course any macroeconomic uncertainty will create pressures for our business. But increasingly, I think it also creates opportunity for us. Every organization is looking for ways to gain efficiencies, insights, and ultimately transform.

This is at the heart of our mission. I believe Microsoft is uniquely positioned to empower them to find new growth areas while finding new growth for ourselves.

With that, I'll hand it over to Amy to go through this quarter's results in greater detail and share our outlook for the next quarter. And I look forward to rejoining you after to answer questions.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you Satya, and good afternoon everyone.

This quarter revenue was $25.7 billion, down 2%, and up 3% in constant currency. Gross margin declined slightly, but was up 5% in constant currency. We grew operating income this quarter by 3%, and 13% in constant currency. And earnings per share was $0.78, growing 11%, or 23% in constant currency.

We achieved strong results this quarter through targeted investments in innovation and consistent execution. From a geographic perspective, our performance in most markets was as expected. The key markets like Brazil, China, Japan, and Russia continue to be challenging.

Our commercial business once again delivered solid results, as we executed well in a large quarter for annuity renewals. Commercial bookings increased 12%, up 19% in constant currency. And commercial unearned revenue was in line with expectations at $19.6 billion, or 8% growth in constant currency. In addition, our contracted-not-billed balance reached an all-time high of $25.5 billion. With our continued cloud growth, our commercial annuity mix reached 83%, up 5 points year over year. This quarter more than 60% of customers with enterprise agreements attached commercial cloud services, up 15 percentage points year over year.

Additionally, we continue to make progress in improving our cloud gross margins. In Q2 total commercial cloud gross margin was 46%, an increase of 9 points year over year, driven primarily by improvements in both Office 365 and Azure.

Last quarter I provided the expected foreign currency impact on total revenue as well as across each of the reporting segments. In Q2 the FX impact came in nearly as anticipated, though the US dollar trended stronger than expected in December. This resulted in less than 1 point of additional negative impact to total revenue as compared to expectations, rounding up to 5 points. Consistent with Q1, and as Chris explained, we are not able to provide constant currency impact at the segment level for operating expenses and therefore segment operating income. In general, FX had a favorable impact of 3% on operating expenses at the total Company level.

Now let's turn to each segment's results. This quarter our Productivity and Business Processes segment delivered in line with our expectations, with $6.7 billion in revenue, declining 2%, but growing 5% in constant currency. In office commercial revenue declined 1%, but grew 5% in constant currency driven by ongoing strength from Office 365, but revenue increased nearly 70% in constant currency. 80,000 transacting partners sold Office 365 to small business customers. And our installed base continued to expand across Office, Exchange, SharePoint, and the Skype for Business workloads.

Office consumer revenue declined 14%, down 8% in constant currency ahead of the consumer PC market. Subscribers increased to 20.6 million, attach rates grew and recurring subscription revenue continued to more than offset the impact of the customer transition to the cloud. And our Dynamics business grew 3%, or 11% in constant currency, with triple digit install base growth for Dynamics CRM online for the fifth consecutive quarter. We look forward to the upcoming launch of Dynamics AX, our ERP cloud solution built on and for Azure that increases the breadth of our offerings in the business process market.

Segment gross margin declined 6%, up 1% in constant currency. The gross margin percentage declined, reflecting the increasing mix of cloud services within the segment. Segment operating expenses decreased 3% as we repositioned resources to align with our highest growth opportunities and as a result operating income declined 8%.

The Intelligent Cloud segment delivered over $6.3 billion in revenue, slightly ahead of our expectations. And grew 5%, and 11% in constant currency. Our enterprise customers continue to choose, adopt, and use our hybrid cloud platform offerings, which resulted in server product and services growth, revenue growth of 10% in constant currency. Additionally, enterprise services revenue increased 10%, or 16% in constant currency, driven by our premier support services. Segment gross margin grew 4%, or 11% in constant currency. Gross margin percentages were flat, as the rapid and continued growth of our cloud mix offset margin improvements in Azure and enterprise services. Given the addressable market opportunity and enterprise customer demand, we continued our investment in research and development as well as sales and marketing resources. This quarter operating income declined 1%.

Now to our last segment, More Personal Computing. Revenue exceeded our expectations at $12.7 billion, down 5%, and 2% in constant currency. First, our OEM results. Our total OEM business declined 5% this quarter, outperforming the overall PC market. OEM non-Pro revenue declined 3%, outperforming the consumer PC market as we expected, driven by a higher mix of premium and midrange devices which led to higher average revenue per license then the prior year. OEM Pro revenue declined 6%, slightly better than the commercial PC market. Per license inventory is slightly above historical levels, which we expect to work through in Q3.

Windows volume licensing grew 3% in constant currency with annuity growth partially offset by transactional declines. IP licensing declined, impacted by both a decrease in total unit volume and a higher mix of low royalty units. Our search business performed well again this quarter with higher revenue per search, higher search volume and US market share growth, which resulted in continued profitability.

Devices revenue decreased 26%, or 22% in constant currency, primarily due to phone, where revenue declined 49% in constant currency, reflecting our change in strategy announced last July. Surface revenue increased 22%, or 29% in constant currency, with the launch of Surface Pro 4 and Surface Book, with continued channel expansion and growing commercial sales. On a constant currency basis, device gross margin dollars declined 18% and gross margin percentage improved, driven by a shift in revenue to our higher-margin service portfolio. As Satya referenced, we had a good holiday for Xbox. Gaming revenue increased 5%, or 9% in constant currency, driven by record Xbox Live transactions as well as first-party game releases. As expected, hardware revenue decreased due to lower volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold.

Segment gross margin declined 1%, or increased 5% in constant currency. Operating expenses decreased 14%, primarily due to reduced expense in our phone business as well as a successful transition of display advertising sales to AOL. As a result, segment operating income grew 35%.

And now, back to our overall Company results. Customer adoption and usage of our cloud services continues to accelerate globally. And we are investing capital into our data centers and servers to respond to this demand. This quarter we invested $2 billion, up sequentially from the $1.5 billion invested last quarter. Other income was negative $171 million due to interest expense and net losses on derivatives, partially offset by dividend and interest income and net recognized gains on investments. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 19%, in line with our expectations, with the year-over-year decrease primarily due to an IRS audit adjustment in the prior year and lower nondeductible operating losses in the current. This quarter we returned $6.5 billion to shareholders, an increase of 42%.

Let's move to the outlook. I want to preface my remarks with three overall comments, and then move to more specific comments by segment. First, FX. I previously stated that we expected the FX impact on total revenue to be about 3 points in H2. For Q3, given the recent strengthening of the US dollar, we now expect an overall impact of 4 points. By segment, we expect 5 points of impact on Productivity and Business Processes, 4 points in Intelligent Cloud and 3 points in More Personal Computing. And we anticipate continued lessening of FX impacts by segment and on total revenue in Q4, assuming current rates stay stable.

Second, our commercial business. We expect our commercial business to remain healthy, with ongoing shift to annuity as new and existing customers adopt and use our commercial cloud services. Therefore, even with continuing currency headwinds, we expect commercial on our revenue to be within the range of $18.8 billion to $19 billion. Our commercial cloud run rate trajectory remains on path, with continued focus on gross margin improvement across each of our key services. Office 365, Azure, and Dynamics online (inaudible) the total commercial cloud gross margin percentage will be impacted by the mix of revenue. Third, we will continue to meet global customer demand for cloud services and we'll increase our investment in data centers and capital equipment in the second half of our fiscal year.

Now let me share some additional commentary on each segment. In Productivity and Business Processes we expect revenue of $6.4 billion to $6.6 billion, which reflects 5 points of negative FX impact. This represents 6% year-over-year growth in constant currency, driven by Office 365 momentum and Dynamics online.

For the Intelligent Cloud segment we expect revenue between $6.1 billion to $6.3 billion, which reflects 4 points of negative FX impact. Continued customer preference for our hybrid solutions will drive sustained growth in server products and cloud services, and robust demand for enterprise services. We expect this business to continue to grow double digits, as it has throughout the first half of our fiscal year.

For More Personal Computing we expect revenue between $9.1 billion and $9.4 billion, which includes 3 points of negative FX impact. As this segment has both devices and software, I'll provide a bit more detail. First, Windows. As I mentioned earlier, we will return to normal levels of Pro inventory in Q3. And we expect non-Pro revenue to align more closely with the consumer PC market.

In search, Bing will continue to gain share and will remain profitable. For phone, we expect similar year-over-year revenue climb, and in the gross margin percentage for Q3 should look similar to Q2. After a solid launch quarter with Surface Book and Surface Pro 4, we anticipate continued momentum and growth with Surface Book expanding into additional countries. And in gaming, we expect normal post-holiday seasonality. We expect COGS to be $7.7 billion to $7.8 billion with variability driven by device sales. We expect operating expenses between $7.7 billion and $7.8 billion.

And for the full year we are lowering our guidance to $31.4 billion to $31.6 billion, as we continue to improve efficiencies and invest in key growth opportunities. We expect other income and expenses to be negative $300 million in Q3. This includes the net cost of hedging and interest expense offset by dividend interest income. We expect our Q3 and full-year tax rate to be between 19% and 21%.

In closing, our Q2 results and our Q3 outlook demonstrate our execution discipline and our investment in strategic areas to sustain long-term growth. We remain focused as we both create new markets and take share in existing ones.

And with that, I'll turn it back to Chris for Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We'll now move to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of Philip Winslow with Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congrats on a great quarter. I just wanted to focus in on commercial cloud and Azure specifically. Commercial cloud, as you mentioned, the run rate was up $9.4 billion. That's up like $2 billion quarter to quarter, 70% year over year. That's higher growth rate than even last quarter. Azure [similar, if not even] accelerating growth versus even last quarter.

So a question, Satya, and I'll follow up for Amy. Satya, when you look at the growth rates there in commercial cloud, and particularly Azure, you talk about new customer wins but also existing customers transitioning more workloads into Azure. I hope you can give us maybe some more color there as far as what you're seeing and how you think about the growth going forward there?

And then Amy, based on our calculations, it seems like Azure had a meaningful improvement in just the gross margin year over year. Wondering if you could help us with the two curves in that business, and where we are in Azure's gross margin lifecycle? Again, the fixed costs and the variable costs and how you are thinking about that? Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Phil, for the question. The way we think about cloud is how I described it in my remarks, which is it's the combination of the work we are actually doing in the SaaS, PasS, IaaS, and also a hybrid cloud layer. Because we don't think, for example, of our servers as a distinct part. But it's in fact the edge of our cloud and we are building for that with things like Azure stack. We think what we have done here by bringing these things together as one architecture for distributed computing and how people will consume applications and build applications in the future, we speak to more of the real-world needs, I think, of an IT organization or a business organization that is transform through digital technology.

If you put yourself as a CIO of a multinational organization and you want to operate in multiple geographies with different regimes for data sovereignty and then you want to be able to take some workloads, move them all to the cloud. Some you want to be able to tier with the cloud, that's the kind of flexibility we provide. And we also see network effects between if you are using Office 365, you want to extend the data in Office 365 by building applications that join it with some other data inside of our data link service in Azure, obviously Azure becomes the natural choice for such application development. And we are increasingly seeing that. That's really our strategy. Our strategy is not to complete in these constituent parts independently with different competitors. It is to bring one architecture and really drive the value for our customers because of that.

AMY HOOD: Let me quickly cover, I think, your gross margin question. You are right, we did actually make significant progress in both Azure as well as Office 365. And then the mix of those, obviously impacts the overall commercial cloud gross margin. What's important, the dynamics are actually quite similar, even though the services are quite different. There are two fundamental components to gross margin improvement.

Number one is obviously scale efficiencies and where we are in that curve, which we are doing and continue to make consistent improvement in. The next, obviously, is the mix of premium services. Satya talked about some of the increasing mix of premium services in Azure. That has been encouraging, especially in existing customers over time and through adoption curves. And in Office 365, as you know, we continue to be excited by our premium mix in the commercial segment. So those two combinations each quarter impact it as well as the overall.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Phil. We will move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Very nice quarter, guys. And thank you for taking the question. Satya, you mentioned both new and existing customers increasingly using the Azure cloud. I was hoping you could give us some color into what that looks like, specifically when an existing customers starts using Azure in terms of how does their overall spending get impacted and what happens to their spending for the more traditional server and tools? How does that get impacted as people use the public cloud utility more and more?

SATYA NADELLA: The thing that we notice is that with anyone who has moved to the cloud there is a real opportunity for us to expand to multiple workloads over time because it's a design win. It's like essentially an ISV win in the client server area where you could get someone to build on your core infrastructure. They build their first application. And it turns out that you have done that, you would want to look at our infrastructure for a second workload and third workload. So that is one side of what is happening with the expansion.

The other side of the expansion is what I also referenced, which is if you are an Office 365 customer you have data in Office 365. You want to build applications that tap into that data, then you use Azure. That is the other piece. The EMS growth is also very much related to that, which is if you deploy Exchange online you have Azure A/D. And then the natural expansion from there is the full EMS suite with device management for all your mobile devices and also advanced threat protection and what have you. We see both those trends from an application workload development synergies, as well as infrastructure from identity management, device management work out.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Amy, macro is on everyone's mind. I'm curious if you guys could comment a little bit about what you are seeing. I know it may be too early to see some of the weakness that others have seen. But how are you looking at the demand environment and how does that change your plans as you look towards the back half of the year? Does any assumptions change in your minds?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent, for the question. The geos, I specifically called out, obviously are where we are the most impacted, and they are the bigger geos. Really I think the focus that we have here is how we can best execute no matter what the macro environment turns out to be. Focus on our own execution, focus on continuing to drive cloud services, focus on continuing to drive on annuity mix. Those movements actually -- and as we help customers transform, is really the best plan in the face of any uncertainty, which you are clearly asking me about. I tend to probably focus more on what we can control versus the external environment and how we can best react to that.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you very much. I was just wondering, Satya, you mentioned, and I know there is been a lot of questions on Azure, but you mentioned strong growth in compute, and SQL usage on Azure being up, I think you said 5 times. I was wondering if you could give us your take on how you see the mix of Azure workloads? Is it right now more new workload growth and it's very little existing workloads moving over? I'm just trying to get a sense for how you see the wave cresting for new workloads versus existing workloads that can migrate over.

I'm also wondering if you see it helping (technical difficulties). You mentioned it is like a design win or an ISV win. I am wondering if you could share with us how this might be impacting your share versus, say, 1X or versus other types of infrastructure platforms. Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: The thing, Heather, the move to the cloud has done for us is expanded the market opportunity that we have had more than ever before. In some sense if you compare it to the TAM of STB versus what we now describe as Intelligent Cloud, we are operating in a much bigger market. And that's because, first of all, the move to the cloud combines a whole bunch of different categories, as well as take something that you mentioned, which is Linux. We now have the ability to take Linux workloads and run them first-class. And over 20%-plus of Azure is Linux workloads, which is sort of a growth opportunity we tapped into with the cloud which we didn't have previously.

And even take something like EMS, which is a service, you could say in the past, we participated with active directory, but we -- and some amount of system center. But now with the growth of actually mobile devices and SaaS applications our opportunity with EMS is much bigger than anything that we had in the client/server era. Clearly we are migrating some workloads. And structurally some of that helps us because we had that position in the client/server space. But when we look at what we're doing in the cloud it's mostly about attaching to one of the secular growth trajectories going forward, be it open source, Linux development, mobile use and SaaS applications. So those are things that we participate in which we didn't participate in the past.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Bernstein Research.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN RESEARCH: Thank you. Satya, Amy, congrats on the quarter. I've got for Satya and then a quick follow-up with Amy. Satya, following up on the cloud discussion, recognizing that SaaS, PasS, infrastructure as a server hybrid, they're all related, but as Azure continues to grow fast and become a bigger part of the business, how should we think about the opportunities or the opportunity size for PasS versus infrastructure as a service? PasS is much smaller industry-wide today, but is the opportunity is big, bigger? How should we think about that? And then a follow-up for Amy.

SATYA NADELLA: The opportunity I believe in both cases is high because it just comes in different forms. IaaS growth comes because people already have existing code that they want to move over. And then they start extending by writing more PasS because it is more efficient for them to write new code and new apps in PasS. So I think that depending what -- if you are bringing something over, your IaaS will be heavy first and then PasS will grow. If you are starting new you will have Pass, which is going to be the first thing you do. But then you'll always find the need to go integrate with something that was already existing, existing data, existing code in a virtual machine.

I, myself, in fact one of the things that Amy and I do is when we think about our CapEx, we think about all of these layers together. In fact, we amortize our CapEx across all of these. And we pay attention to margin and premium mix because what we are comfortable -- understand is customers, depending on where they start, how they start have different mix profiles. So it is the [all-up]. As long as we're growing our premium services attach and margins for those remain strong, we feel that the mix can be different and it's okay. And we really want to speak to the needs of the customers more than any product strategy goal we have.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect, thank you. Amy, slightly different topic. Free cash flow grew 25% year on year, much faster than the other metrics. How should we think about this trend continuing?

AMY HOOD: That was impacted, Mark, in the prior year by some integration and restructuring charges on the cash flow statement.

MARK MOERDLER: So it's really a one-time event more than anything else?

AMY HOOD: Yes. Just always make sure you check the integration and restructuring in the prior year.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect. Thank you. I appreciate it. Congrats.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays Capital.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking my question, and congrats from me as well. Quick question for Satya. Now that Windows 10 is on 200 million devices, what do you see on the developer network? (Inaudible)[aims worth] you have a uniform platform for developers to go against PC, tablet, et cetera. What do you see in terms of them starting to embrace the platform and use the opportunity there? Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for the question. Yes, you're absolutely right. That was one of our biggest strategic objectives was to get active devices and with store integrated into the install base and then a user experience so that we can increase the success for developers. We're seeing good early signs.

In my open commentary I talked about both the increased [whiz-its] to the store and transactions as well as the fact that we are attracting new applications from developers like Netflix to Wall Street Journal, to others. As you can imagine our share is today in desktops, in emerging, in tablets, in two-in-one. And of course now with Xbox as well, which is got great attraction to gaming developers. So those are the natural places where you will see us gain more developers and gain more traction. We're big believers in a unified developer platform and a unified store. And then as Windows 10 monthly active devices increases and the store usage increases, we will see more and more developers take advantage of it.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Just a numbers question for Amy. I noticed your long-term unearned revenue was up quite a bit. That is been a flattish trend, and it was paired with commercial bookings being much stronger, I think, than I was modeling. I'm wondering if you could help us understand what drove the unearned and how that contributed to those commercial bookings?

AMY HOOD: Sure. A couple things, Walter, which I know you recall. We do have a bit of lumpiness in our expirations. As I said on the call, this was a big expiration quarter for us. And so on occasion what that does, even with the negative currency impact on C&B, is have a bit of lumpiness over time. That being said, I want to point to the core which is that renewal rates were very good and a big quarter. There was very strong performance on that front, very strong performance in moving customers to annuity as well as to the cloud. So aside from a bit of the lumpiness that you do note, and we have from time to time, the execution in the quarter was very strong.

WALTER PRITCHARD: And then if I can just -- one other numbers question. It looked like in the Q you called out actually Windows server declining as an offset to Intelligent Cloud growth. I'm wondering, we haven't seen that comment in the Q before. Was there something, sort of one-off driving that, or any further detail on that?

AMY HOOD: The way I would think about that one, Walter, is in general our premium or enterprise workloads across Windows, SQL, system center, et cetera grew double digits. Some of that weakness, frankly, is in the non-annuity and very transactional business, which happened to impact Windows server a bit more than other workloads. That is where macro pressure on occasion shows itself first, is in some of that non-annuity lumpiness. So that's the nature of that comment.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Amy, relative to your Q2 guide, the upside surprise really came in the personal computing business. And at least relative to our third-quarter estimates, it's again the personal computing guidance that beat. I'm wondering if you could repeat the key factors that are contributing to the outperformance in that pretty important business? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Sure, Karl. In Q2, let me talk about two key ones. Number one is really the device launches. We actually launched a very broad portfolio of devices into the quarter with Surface Pro 4, Surface Book, Band 2, and the Lumia 950 and 950XL. Between all of those hardware products as well as our gaming performance, another hardware component in quarter, we did a little better than we had expected in our launches. Now, when you launch mid-quarter there's always some timing aspect to that. But I feel very good about the execution of those and that is a meaningful component of that outperformance.

The second one, which I talked about, is OEM Pro. We did a little better in the quarter than I expected, but inventory levels are a little higher. I expect to work through that in Q3. And that was a couple of points of impact, for example, on OEM Pro in quarter.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay, great. Amy, for the third quarter your guide for that business is also pretty good. Is that due to some of these similar factors or are there one or two others that are driving the, what appears to be appears to be, pretty solid 3Q performance in that unit as well?

AMY HOOD: It's similar drivers. In that segment there is also some topics I tend to not get asked about in Q&A. Let me take the opportunity to talk about them. Which is one, our search performance continues to be very good. Frankly, our display business has been quite good. If you go beyond that, I feel good about our gaming business sequentially. I feel good about the hardware, especially the Surface performance, as we launch into more geos. If you think about all those components, which actually were very similar to Q2 in terms of their strength, you see them again in Q3. So I'm not sure there's anything, quote-unquote, new, Karl, I would say other than that bit of mix between OEM Pro a little bit pulled into Q2 versus Q3.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Terrific color. Thank you, Amy.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Bank of America.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Congrats on the quarter. I was curious to get your thoughts, Satya, on the Windows 10 upgrade cycle in the enterprise and also the consumer market, particularly after you anniversary the free offer for Windows 10. And secondly and finally, thoughts on Surface? It's off to a great start with the latest model. Could that play a more important role in the corporate computing landscape? Thank you. That's it for me.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Kash, for the question. As far as the upgrade momentum, the fact that we crossed 200 million active devices, we feel very, very good about that. And the pilots, the most -- the place which in the second half is going to be a huge focus for us is the enterprise deployment. And that is where I think there's real excitement because of some of the core capabilities of Windows 10 when it comes to security, manageability. That I think is going to create great value for enterprises, and that's showing up in all the pilots and the accelerant. I've never seen a Windows in the enterprise with this level of accelerated deployment plans. So we obviously need to do a great job in continuing to push that and we are focused on it.

As far as Surface, Surface is playing a increasing role for us in both consumer as well as in the enterprise market. And also, we created a new category of two-in-ones where even our OEMs are finding success, which was one of our strategic objectives of doing the Surface. Overall, we do think that this tablets that can replace your laptop is ideally suited for productivity needs, which means it's great for your personal use as well as your use inside of the enterprise. And we continue to see good growth.

AMY HOOD: I would just add one thing, is that we've actually announced a number of important partners to help us take the Surface portfolio into commercial customers. And I think we will expect to see progress on that over the course of the year.

KASH RANGAN: If I could, your excitement is pretty palpable. What could be driving that 140% increase in adoption relative to Windows 7? We all thought XP to 7 was a major transition, but it looks like there is another big transition happening here.

SATYA NADELLA: I think there two aspects of it. We have a good operating system release for the core desktop user. And second, I believe is that we also expand out into new usage patterns. If you look at even the thing that we're seeing is in terms of engagement with the browser, or things like Xbox Live, with the store or new device categories like the two-in-one; all I think make it much more possible for users to engage with Windows in more mobile formats and in more productivity scenarios. So I think it's the combination of all of that. But it starts with having a good product [truth], which Windows 10 does deliver on.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Satya, I had a question on commercial Office 365. I don't know if you gave us the number, but I think the last couple of quarters you've talked about monthly active users. And I'm curious if you have an update on that number. And then I also was curious about thoughts around ARPU because you introduced the E5 SKU in December. Where are we on the path of penetration, if you will, with the higher-value SKUs and the ability to see price list across the base over time? Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, [Amy, maybe you can add]. That's right. Last time we talked about the 60 million monthly active users for Office 365, and that continues to grow. In fact there is always -- I think we also talked about how we get licenses sold and then all subscriptions sold. And then there is deployment. And there's always lumpiness as well as increased deployment that happens once the users migrate. And we'll continue to track that and we'll continue to disclose those numbers as they come along. But I feel very, very good in the growth of that. The best proxy for you, really, beyond any numbers we talk about in terms of monthly active is our capital. Because if you look at what we do is we spend our capital only to really fuel the growth, or to service the growth of usage across Office 365 and Azure, and you see that increasing.

In terms of the margin profile, the entire story of having the E3 mix first to be high and now E5, that is the thing that Amy talked about, which is we now have good premium tier value in all of our products. In Office 365 that is most evident with E3 and now E5. Even in Azure we have things like EMS, we have our data services, even our developer services. I think both of our cloud products, and the major cloud products, have these premium tiers that the mix shift to those, or the addition of those is something that we are focused on and we see in our result.

AMY HOOD: That's right. I would just add that we did see that premium mix go up in Office 365 on the commercial side, as you were noting. Really, E5 only been in market for the last month of the quarter. We are excited about the number of customers that are trying it and that all the value it offers. But I would expect that to be a longer-term evolution as opposed to in Q2.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Could I just ask a quick follow-up, Amy? That was great. Just on Windows, just so we all calibrate correctly. You've had this benefit from the RPL [columns] from last year. Should we think about Windows really now beginning to trend in line with PC units, or can there still be some variability around that? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: In my guidance comments I talked a little bit about that. On the Pro side, as I mentioned, we will have a couple point impact that will make a difference between that on the Pro side. And I would expect, I think we actually even talked about that last quarter, that the RPL delta which we've seen in Q1 and Q2 would go away in Q3 and Q4. And it would trend much more similarly to the overall consumer PC market.

CHRIS SUH: Operator, we'll have time for one last question, please.

OPERATOR: Our last question will come from the line of Ed Maguire with CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Good afternoon. I wanted to ask if you have been able to quantify some of the uplift since you've been opening up Office to different platforms like iOS and Android, and now with the recent alliance with Red Hat opening a lot of opportunity to Linux developers? Have you been able to quantify how much uplift you've gotten? And how do you see this impacting your broader market opportunity?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me speak to it in generic terms, because I don't think we have quantified it as narrowly perhaps just to address those specific moves we made. But overall the way we have thought about it is we want to make sure the Office subscription, both to consumers as well as to enterprise subscribers, is valuable across all their devices because it speaks to the vision that we have, which is the cloud is what enables the mobility of the human experience across all of the devices in your life. Because increasingly there will be more devices and we want to make sure that we are adding value. And if we add value in that context you would be more inclined to retain or purchase the Office subscription. That is been our goal, and that's working well. And it is sort of shows up in our all-up growth.

Similarly with Azure, we're making sure that as people are tapping into the cloud and moving to the cloud we can get all workloads to be as first-class on Azure. So that is why we have done the deals with Red Hat. We even did previously deals with Oracle. So Azure is a complete open platform where of course you can run all the Windows workloads, dot-net workloads. But we're increasingly seeing the open source workloads, the Linux workloads, the Oracle workloads, the SAPs and what have you. And more interestingly, a mix of all of them, because the enterprise is heterogeneous. It has been heterogeneous. We participated only in a portion of it. Whereas with Azure we can participate as the total open platform. And that is how we thought about it and that is what we are executing on.

AMY HOOD: Thanks Ed. And thanks everybody.

CHRIS SUH: That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will be webcast and you can follow the comments at microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. And thank you again for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation | rhat : Red Hat Inc
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160129ec1s007es
  


 HD
 Q1  2016 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,567 words
   PD
22 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the first-quarter FY16 Microsoft Corporation earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon and thanks for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website, www.microsoft.com/investor, you can find our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck, which is intended to supplement our prepared remarks during today's call and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Our website also includes information related to our new financial reporting segments announced in September.

This is also the first quarter that reflects the revenue recognition accounting for Windows 10. As a reminder, we report Windows revenue prior to any accounting adjustment in our More Personal Computing segment. The corresponding revenue deferral for Windows 10 sales is then reported in Corp and Other in our segment reporting.

Earnings commentary today and going forward will focus on results prior to the net deferral impact, as we believe this is the best reflection of business health. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call. The non-GAAP metrics exclude the impact of last year's integration and restructuring charges and the current Windows 10 net revenue deferral.

The non-GAAP financial measures provided should not be considered as a substitute for or superior to the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. They are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company's first-quarter performance, in addition to the impact that these items and events had on the financial results.

Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnotes of our Form 10-Q, and includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but exclude the impact of last year's integration and restructuring charges. All growth comparisons we make on the call relate to the corresponding period of last year unless otherwise noted.

We also provide growth rates in constant currency when available, as a framework for assessing how our underlying business has performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuations. At the segment level, we provide constant currency growth for both revenue and gross margin.

However, due to the recent change in our segment reporting groupings, we aren't able to provide segment-level constant currency operating expense growth, and consequently cannot derive constant currency segment operating income either. We do provide constant currency operating expense and income growth at the Company-wide level.

We will post our prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission and in the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until October 21, 2016.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm looking forward to today's call. This quarter, we delivered $21.7 billion in revenue and grew profit. Also as part of our commitment to balanced capital returns, we meaningfully increased our quarterly dividend and continued our stock repurchase plan.

More importantly, we are focused and making progress towards the goals for FY18 that we shared six months ago. Now more than 110 million active devices are running Windows 10. We are well on our way to reaching 1 billion Windows 10 active devices. People are moving from needing to choosing to loving Windows.

Similarly, we are making great progress towards our goal of $20 billion in annualized commercial cloud revenue run rate, which now exceeds $8.2 billion. The results speak to our differentiated cloud strategy, expanded market opportunity, and the speed at which customers are adopting our service.

As I reflect on the quarter, it is important to note that we are investing in significant addressable markets where we also have meaningful differentiation. Today, we'll walk through our financial results for the first quarter and discuss how we're delivering new innovation and growing users and usage across each of our three segments.

Let's start off with Productivity and Business Process. Clearly, how people work has changed dramatically, but one thing remains true: everyone wants to get more out of every moment of their life. After all, time is our scarcest commodity. That's why we set out to reinvent productivity and business process.

The recent release of Office is a big step forward. We designed Office 2016 and Office 365 to take the work out of working together. We want to help change the nature of work within organizations of all sizes by focusing on the mobility of the person's experience, enabling collaboration, and building a rich service that spans all aspects of how people work today.

This approach is resonating with both our consumer and commercial customers. More and more consumers are using Office across device platforms, which is driving Office 365 growth. There are now more than 18 million consumer Office 365 subscribers. We surpassed 200 million downloads of Office Mobile.

More than 1 billion to do lists have been created so far in Wunderlist and more than 0.5 billion people manage their documents and photos in OneDrive. We continue to see strong adoption in the commercial space, as well. From our largest customers, such as Kraft, GE, Louis Vuitton, to schools and small businesses around the globe.

Of note, commercial Office 365 monthly active users grew to 60 million, with nearly 60% of our installed base using premium workloads. And we added 50,000 new small business customers in each of the last 19 consecutive months. As customers move to our cloud, it enables us to deliver even more value and push for new growth by entering new categories.

Information protection is a great example where we have done this because of natural synergies with our existing services. In fact, nearly 20 million people already use our new premium information protection capabilities in Office 365. That's a tremendous validation of how the cloud accelerates the adoption of new workloads and grows our ability to monetize new value in the $10 billion information protection market.

The new organizational analytics market is another area where we see growth opportunity. So we're investing with our acquisition of VoloMetrix, a powerful cloud-based tool for analyzing organizational productivity. The ability to visualize how people engage with others inside and outside an organization is something the cloud is uniquely suited to do.

It is exciting to be on the forefront of creating a new technology category. This illustrates how our vision for productivity goes beyond helping individuals to empowering group of people and entire organizations to accomplish more together. Our addressable opportunity will expand further as we launch more advanced security, voice, and analytics workloads in our new premium Office 365 SKU next quarter.

Let's talk about business processes. With Dynamics, we're making great progress in breaking down the boundaries between business process, collaboration, and productivity to truly empower organizations. The companies I talk with every day are under pressure to grow revenue while differentiating themselves on customer experience.

It's one reason usage of CRM is growing. Dynamics CRM Online enterprise seats more than tripled year-over-year. Dynamics AX revenue also grew double-digits as the operational system for agile business processes. And we have a new release for Dynamics NAV for small businesses that is tightly integration with Azure, Office 365, and Dynamics CRM.

Moving to the Intelligent Cloud, before I talk about the great progress we're making with our Intelligent Cloud platform, I want to pause and reflect on where we are as an industry. While many companies are developing commercial cloud offerings, there are really only two driving enterprise cloud platform innovation at massive scale: Amazon and Microsoft.

We push each other and we each have a unique approach. Microsoft has bet on a strategy to build a hyper-scale public cloud, as well as reinvent servers as the edge of our cloud. This approach gives customers a true hybrid distributed computing platform that reflects their real world needs.

Our unique hybrid approach, coupled with high-value services is clearly a structural advantage. It's great to see our customers like Walmart, Jet.com, and Alaska Airlines seize the benefits of the cloud to transform and push for growth. Azure revenue and compute usage more than doubled year-over-year, and we are continuing to channel our innovation into high-growth scenarios with new features and services.

In the last quarter alone, we have made major updates, spanning Azure App Services for building enterprise web and mobile apps; Azure Data Lake for infinite data management and analysis; Advanced Threat Analytics, which help organizations identify breaches and threats using behavioral analysis. CIOs are increasingly adopting our Azure premium service for security and manageability.

Enterprise Mobility Services has more than doubled to 20,000-plus customers. Our installed base has increased nearly 6 times year-over-year, making EMS the largest mobility and identity management solution in a new and growing market. Our acquisition of Adallom, an innovator in cloud security, will bring customers visibility and control over application access and company data stored across popular cloud applications, including Office 365, Salesforce, ServiceNow, and many more.

To be a worldwide cloud player, global scale is a must. With that in mind, we launched new data centers in India, bringing our global total to over 20 regions, more than any other major cloud provider. We aren't just selling into these countries; we see the cloud as an accelerator of local economies by offering tools that empower emerging businesses, transform public sector services, and create value for new local partners.

Our differentiated hybrid capabilities mean customers get to choose how they adopt the cloud and distribute their workloads. This in turn is driving the growth of our server business. Premium versions of Windows Server, SQL Server and System Center all grew double-digits.

Lastly, we reached a big milestone with SQL Server, one that has been 20 years in the making. The database software market is still one of the largest, and now we are an unparalleled leader in Gartner's Operational DBMS Magic Quadrant.

That speaks to our differentiated vision in the category and the value we deliver to customers and we're certainly not done innovating. This milestone with SQL, juxtaposed with our rapid growth in Azure and its position in the Cloud Magic Quadrant, shows the overall strength and progress we're making with our Intelligent Cloud Platform.

Now let's shift to progress in our More Personal Computing segment, specifically, how the launch of Windows 10 is sparking new growth opportunities for the entire Windows ecosystem. As a platform Company, we think about bringing the needs of multiple constituencies together: developers, IT professionals, and users. We're seeing great response from all three.

There now than more 110 million monthly active devices running Windows 10. The majority of the upgrades in the first 10 weeks were naturally from consumers, and are 3 times that of Windows 7 over the same time period after launch. We're also seeing a fast start to business adoption, with more than 8 million business PCs now running Windows 10.

We are adding more enterprise features and we are making it easier for businesses to buy and support Windows devices. Our early success in attracting developers, apps, and store visits is also growing. Our stores have seen 1.25 billion visits and developer revenue per download has grown 4 times since the Windows 10 launch.

Developers are responding to the opportunity, including Facebook, which will release universal apps for Facebook, Instagram, and Messenger. Windows 10 is also driving increased usage of other Microsoft services. Specifically, Bing share is up to 20.7% in the US, and advertising revenue grew 29% worldwide, helped by Windows 10 users asking Cortana more than 1 billion questions.

Further, in gaming, we have also seen an increase in active users as we extend our gaming experiences from the console to Windows 10 PCs. Xbox Live continues to grow active usage, and every day nearly one-half of the Xbox One user base is engaged in the service.

It will be a great holiday for all gamers. The beta release of Minecraft for Windows 10 is off to a strong start, with players having already placed over a 0.5 billion blocks. Next week, we are excited to launch one of the most anticipated new games this holiday, with Halo 5: Guardians.

This new Halo includes an epic hunt for Master Chief, along with groundbreaking multi-player matches on Xbox Live. As a result, I confidently predict that time will become much more scarce for Xbox One owners starting on Tuesday.

We see all of this Windows 10 usage as an early indicator of our ability to drive growth over the lifetime of a device. Two weeks ago, we took the next major step in our journey with announcement of new Windows 10 premium devices from us and from our OEM partners. It's an incredible line-up across a broad spectrum of categories, from the new Surface Pro 4, Surface Book, to Lumia 950, 950 XL, to Microsoft Band 2, and HoloLens Developer Edition.

Every -- early reviews are generating excitement with customers, and we are delighted that our pre-order sales are reflecting the positive sentiment in the market. We're also seeing hundreds of new device designs from our partners, the widest range ever for this holiday. It's clear that by bringing together our applications, operating system, and hardware, we will invent new personal computers and new personal computing.

Overall, I'm proud of our results this quarter and I'm optimistic about our growth prospects. We are poised to seize the opportunity of the largest technology shift of our generation with the enterprise cloud. We're increasing users and engagement in services that cross every aspect of a person's life, from Office at work to Xbox at home, while at the same time we are positioning Windows for growth.

Our transformation is well underway. Quarter after quarter, we build new capability, we enter new markets, scale our new businesses and new business models, and we are being disciplined in our execution. I'll now hand off to Amy to talk about this quarter's results in greater detail and I'll look forward to rejoining you after to answer questions.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. Before addressing this quarter's results, I want to briefly comment on the reporting segment change we announced during the quarter. We believe our new segments, in combination with supplemental metrics and the profit measure of operating income, provide transparency into our progress against our ambitions.

As Chris mentioned, my commentary today on our results and outlook will reflect the new segments and excludes the net revenue deferral impact of Windows 10. Last quarter, we discussed the material impact the foreign exchange movements would have on our financial results through FY16.

In Q1, the FX impact on total revenue was 5 points, with most of the impact in the Intelligent Cloud and Productivity and Business Processes segments, given their high annuity mix. This was in line with the expectation we shared in July.

This quarter, revenue was $21.7 billion, down 7%, and 2% in constant currency, primarily due to the changes we've made in our phone business. Gross margin declined by 3%, but was up 3% in constant currency. We were thoughtful with operating expenses, realizing savings but investing, as well.

As a result, operating income grew 1%, or 11% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $0.67, growing 3% and growing 15% in constant currency. We continued to see solid performance across most developed markets, while the challenging macro conditions in Brazil, China, Japan, and Russia persisted this quarter.

Commercial results are now included in each of the reporting segments. Therefore, each quarter I will cover overall commercial results in my commentary. Our commercial business continues to be healthy, with momentum in cloud services and a higher annuity mix across all our segments.

Commercial bookings were slightly better than we expected and grew 10% in constant currency. We executed well on expirations and commercial unearned revenue grew, came in as expected, growing 3% to $21 billion, up 10% in constant currency. Our contracted not billed balance was more than $23.5 billion, in line with seasonality for the quarter.

As Satya remarked, our commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate surpassed $8.2 billion, growing nearly 70% year-on-year, and in line with our expectations. Consistent with the revenue pattern across our commercial business, we typically drive the largest volume of renewals in new agreements in June and consequently see a lower sequential growth rate Q1.

Importantly, our commercial cloud gross margin percentage improved again sequentially from Q4, as we benefited from increasing scale and efficiencies. As I will talk about shortly, our leading indicators around usage, new cloud services, and customer demand remain healthy, and we are clearly on track toward our $20 billion goal in FY18.

Now let's turn to the detailed results of each segment. Our Productivity and Business Processes segment, which is made up of commercial and consumer Office, including Office 365, as well as Dynamics, delivered $6.3 billion in revenue, declining 3%, and growing 4% in constant currency. In Office commercial, revenue grew 5% in constant currency and was slightly better than we expected.

Increased channel sales capacity, a higher adoption of premium services, and continue to installed base growth all contributed to our performance. We saw broad-based Office 365 seat growth across both large enterprise and the SMB customer base. Office consumer revenue declined 4% in constant currency, better than the underlying consumer PC market and slightly better than we had expected.

This quarter, recurring subscription revenue more than offset the impact of customers transitioning to Office 365. Our Dynamics business grew 12% in constant currency, slightly better than we expected. Growth was driven primarily by Dynamics CRM Online. We continue to make progress by investing in product innovation organically, as well as adding capabilities through acquisitions, like FieldOne and FantasySalesTeam.

Segment gross margin declined 6% but grew 1% in constant currency. Gross margin percentages have been impacted by the mix shift toward our rapidly growing cloud services, including our consumer properties like OneDrive. As Chris mentioned, this year we can't provide constant currency impact at the segment level for operating expenses and therefore operating income. That said, FX in general as at the Company level had a favorable impact on operating expenses, which declined 6%.

The Intelligent Cloud segment, which includes of our portfolio of server products, Azure cloud services, and enterprise services, delivered $5.9 billion in revenue, up 8%, and up 14% in constant currency, in line with our expectations. Our differentiated cloud platform offerings and rapid pace of innovation continue to be compelling to both new and existing customers.

Segment gross margin grew 8%, or 15% in constant currency. We continue to invest in research and development resources to realize the large and growing addressable market opportunities and are accelerating our plans to add incremental sales capacity to support growing customer demand for cloud services. Segment operated income grew 14%.

Now to our final segment, More Personal Computing, which includes Windows, devices, gaming, and search. Revenue was $9.4 billion, declining 17%, and 13% in constant currency, mainly due to the changes in our phone strategy. As Satya mentioned, since the launch of Windows 10 in late July, we have seen solid momentum in our ecosystem and with our customers.

Importantly, we saw positive engagement and usage signals across services like search and gaming that provide post-sale monetization opportunities. Overall, our OEM business declined 6% this quarter, outperforming the PC market and better than we had anticipated, driven primarily by non-Pro OEM. As we discussed previously, this was a transition quarter, as the ecosystem moves to Windows 10, and we believe overall inventory in the channel is at normal levels as we head into holiday.

OEM non-Pro revenue declined 4%, as we saw OEMs focused on premium devices, aligned to the Windows 10 launch. This drove a richer mix to market leading to improvement in the average revenue per license. OEM Pro revenue declined 7%, slightly ahead of the overall commercial PC market.

Windows volume licensing grew 4% in constant currency, with annuity growth in mid-single-digits. Search revenue increased to more than $1 billion this quarter, and we passed an important milestone as our search business reached profitability. In our devices portfolio, revenue declined 49%, and 45% in constant currency, mainly due phone revenue, which decreased $1.5 billion.

As expected, Surface revenue slowed with the market anticipation of a new Surface Pro device for the holidays. Surface continues to gain ground with businesses and schools, creating opportunities for our rapidly growing partner channel, which includes Accenture, Dell, and HP. Both the number and size of deals in our commercial segment for Surface have increased double-digits year-over-year.

This quarter in gaming, revenue grew 6% in constant currency. We saw growth in Xbox Live transactional revenue and our first-party game portfolio, offset by declines in hardware revenue due to lower volumes of Xbox 360 consoles sold.

Segment gross margin declined 10%, or 4% in constant currency. Gross margin percentages were flat year-over-year excluding the phone. Segment operating expenses declined 13%, due primarily to lower phone expense; as a result, segment operating income decreased 4%.

Now back to our overall Company results. As usage of our cloud service grows, we will continue to invest capital into our data centers and servers globally. This quarter, we invested $1.5 billion to support that demand-driven growth. Other income was negative $280 million, due in part to foreign currency remeasurements and interest expense.

Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 21%, below our guided range. This was driven by the change in geographic mix of our earnings and lower non-deductible operating losses associated with phones. This quarter, we returned $6.9 billion to shareholders, up 51%. This includes our recently announced 16% increase in the quarterly dividend to $0.36.

With that overview of the quarter, let's move to the outlook. I'll start with some overall comments and then moved to a discussion by segment. First, on FX, based on current rates and the forecasted geographic mix of revenue, we expect 4 points of negative impact on total revenue in Q2.

By segment, we expect a 7-point drag in Productivity and Business Processes, 6 points in Intelligent Cloud, and 3 points in More Personal Computing. In H2, we expect the impact to lessen to around 3 points in total, weighted toward our segments with the highest percentage of annuity.

Next to our commercial business, which we expect to remain healthy in Q2. Our annuity mix should trend up, with good execution on contract renewals and continued adoption of our commercial cloud services. Accordingly, we expect commercial unearned revenue to be within a range of $19.5 billion to $19.7 billion, benefiting from these positive trends. With the ongoing increase in cloud demand, we expect to accelerate our investment in data centers and capital equipment for the remainder of the fiscal year, expanding geographic coverage and capacity.

Now let me share some additional thoughts on each segment. In Productivity and Business Processes, we expect revenue of $6.6 billion to $6.7 billion. Adjusted for 7 points of expected FX impact, the revenue growth reflects continued momentum of Office 365 and our Dynamics portfolio, and as Satya discussed, with our new E5 SKU in Q2, we're expanding our opportunity into security, analytics, and voice.

For the Intelligent Cloud segment, we expect revenue of $6.2 billion to $6.3 billion, including a 6-point FX impact. Our hybrid approach continues to drive growth in our server licensing business and robust growth in our services. Gross margin in this segment will reflect the accelerating mix of cloud services.

We expect More Personal Computing revenue to be $12 billion to $12.4 billion, including the 3 points of FX impact. Because of the mix of devices and software in this segment, let me provide a bit more context. First on Windows, overall in Q2, we expect our OEM business to look similar to Q1, with non-Pro outperforming the underlying PC market.

As we move deeper through the fiscal year, the device mix should evolve, as our OEM partners produce more models at a wider range of price points. In search, we expect Bing's strong trajectory to continue, remaining profitable for the remainder of the year. We will continue to see the impact of the phone restructuring.

Revenue declines and gross margin percentages in Q2 should look similar to Q1. And with the strong holiday Surface line-up, we expect revenue to grow in Q2. Gross margins will reflect the mix of device life cycles between Surface 3, Surface Pro 3, and a growing mix of Surface Book and Surface Pro 4.

We expect COGS to be $9.7 billion to $9.9 billion, with variability driven by the device sales. We expect operating expenses between $8 billion and $8.1 billion in Q2. For the full year, we are lowering our guidance to $31.9 billion to $32.1 billion.

We are and will continue to thoughtfully reinvest operating expense savings to accelerate growth in key areas, to expand our addressable market, and transformed how we work, to better deliver products and services to our customers. We expect other income and expenses to be negative $300 million in Q2, similar to Q1. This includes the net cost of hedging and interest expense, offset by dividend and interest income.

We expect our Q2 and full-year tax rate to be between 19% and 21%. Similar to Q1, this reflects the changing geographic mix of revenue, as well as lower non-deductible operating losses associated with phones. In closing, [guarantee] one, we exceeded our own expectations across many of our businesses.

More importantly, we saw healthy indicators of future growth. Through business model transitions and strategic shifts, our solid execution, paired with a focus on achieving our bold ambitions, has enabled us to take share in existing areas, while we enter new ones. And with that, I'll turn it back to Chris for Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We'll now move to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Very nice quarter, indeed. I wanted to ask about the Azure, in particular, and the public cloud [forms] that you saw this quarter. Again, seems like you're seeing an acceleration in that overall business. More broadly, it seems like industry-wide, both you guys and [eight of us] are seeing something of an inflection point going on in terms of more and more business accruing to those public cloud environments.

So my question is just that. Would you agree with that statement that there's been an inflection going on in the business? And if so, what do you think is causing that and is there a changing in nature in how people are using that cloud? And then maybe for Amy, is there something we should bear in mind in terms of your traditional business, the on-premise business that may be impacted as that infection takes place that we should bear in mind as you go forward?

SATYA NADELLA: I'll start. Keith, thanks for the question. Overall, what we're seeing is the public cloud or cloud infrastructure makes it much more possible for businesses of all sizes and developers all sizes to get at infrastructure with much less friction than ever before. I grew up in our server business in the past. We were definitely the ones who democratized servers by bringing servers to small businesses.

But when I think about what's happening, for example, in Office 365, where we're adding 50,000 small business customers who now get the most sophisticated server technology, but now have as a SaaS service, that's what's really happening world over with all application categories. And that's where the growth is.

I don't know long-term whether there is a zero-sum equation, but in the -- right now, and in the intermediate time frame, we see, in our case growth, in both sides. And in our case the vision also we have for distributed cloud infrastructure is just that. It is distributed. So we don't think as our server as a legacy business. I think of it as the edge of our cloud.

If you look at what we're doing with SQL, we will have the ability for any customer of SQL to stretch even a single table from between their on-premise to the cloud. Those are the kinds of things that we are excited about. But we clearly are seeing very rapid growth in adoption of our Azure cloud.

But in our case, there are two unique aspects. One is this true distributed hybrid and second is we don't think of Azure in isolation. We think about it in the combination of Office 365, Dynamics, EMS, because really it's one cloud infrastructure, first of all, from a capital perspective that serves all of these, and there's a virtual cycle between all of these for our customers, as well.

AMY HOOD: Keith, to your second question, the place you'll actually see it will be in the gross margin percentage. As Satya said, I do expect both to grow, both the on-premise and the cloud, but I expect the mix to increasingly shift toward the cloud given its robust growth rate, which will impact the gross margin percentage over time.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Bernstein Research.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Congratulations on the quarter, everyone. Two questions. Let me relate it. Let me give you the first one. The commercial cloud annualized revenue run rate grew slightly from $8 billion to $8.2 billion or a little bit more than each of those, yet Office 365, Azure, Dynamics, CRM Online, all of them seem to be growing very fast. How should we think about the difference, should we figure that the run rate reaccelerates next quarter? And then I have a follow-up?

AMY HOOD: The way to really think about that number, just because of some of the seasonality in our business, Mark, is to think about the year-over-year growth rate of 70%. For me, that is more symbolic of how you should think about the pace and that is a very fast number on an increasingly growing base.

MARK MOERDLER: That makes perfect sense. Thank you. The second one is the cloud margins improved nicely. Given the data that's in here, it looks like they've all started to move up. Azure seems to move up. You had said in the [FAM], the gross margins for 2015 should be about 44%. How should we think about cloud gross margins for 2015? I know you don't know, obviously, the mix of all of our products, but how should we think about the improvement there?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark. Looking in the old segments, which I know you all have done, we saw year-over-year improvement in the overall Commercial Other segment that we disclosed this time, too, of about 10 points year-over-year. We saw sequential improvement from Q4 to Q1.

We're still focused on continuing to have that sequential improvement, especially as some of the things Satya talked about, which is the addition of premium services, the pace of innovation especially on the premium end. If you think about our launch of E5, which is a premium SKU in Office 365, it continues to give us the opportunity to both get more efficient in the infrastructure, and to add higher-margin products especially in the SaaS end.

SATYA NADELLA: The one thing that, structurally, that we think a lot about and we're very disciplined about is our capital allows us to build all of the cloud services from Office 365 to EMS to Dynamics to Azure. That diversity of workloads, long-term, is what will lead to margin improvement and there will be changes in seasonality from quarter-to-quarter. But structurally, those two things, the diversity of what we're doing and how capital is utilized across all of it, is a big structural differentiator for us.

MARK MOERDLER: Beautiful. It's great to see that improvement happening. Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Mark.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congrats on a great quarter. Just a question for Satya, then a follow-up to Amy, Satya, you talked about good adoption of Office 365 on the commercial side, both in SMBs and large enterprise. Wondering if you just could break that down and where you're seeing the faster adoption? As you start to get into the enterprises especially that might have enterprise agreements with Microsoft, how is that sales motion going and what is the pitch there?

And then to Amy, I thought this was a key point, something that we've been looking for. You noted that these subscription recurring business now has offset the cannibalization on the license. Is that something that we should think about going forward or was there something specific about this quarter that would push that out? Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: First, as far as the Office 365 usage itself, I talked about some of the numbers, of 60 million monthly active users, the fact that our seats grew 66% year-over-year. The small business number I talked about, the 50,000 per month additional customers that we're adding to Office 365. These are all the growth numbers and the usage growth numbers.

The mix even, that information protection, that's just another very important point, which is amongst the customers who are using Office 365, already 20 million are using some of these premium services, like information protection. Of course, we're going to further expand that with new SKUs and new categories that are going to become part of Office 365.

So I see that stretching on both sides, which is to small business on one end and then these premiums SKUs on the other end. And we see nice attach as far as EAs to the cloud, as well and that's definitely a big driver of our growth.

AMY HOOD: Let me take the second and I'll add something to what Satya said. One of the important things that's distinct about the small business market is that there tends to not be much of a lag in terms of buying and deployment. They want to be able to instantaneously use and get value very quickly and that's something we've actually seen and a real testament to our ability to add so many customers in every quarter.

And what you've seen in the consumer side, which it was an important point, once we've built this installed base up to 18 million users on the consumer side, that recurring rate does, in fact, offset the deferral from new. And so it is an important inflection point for us this quarter.

PHILIP WINSLOW: Great. (Multiple speakers.) Congrats.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just had two quick questions. I was wondering, Satya, if you could give us a sense for a high-level commentary about the split of IaaS versus PaaS and Azure? And maybe some color on the growth you see in each of those and how you see them evolving?

Then the second question would be related to the launch of Windows 10. You gave the Bing example for the month of September and the solid pull-forward there -- or pull-along there. I'm just wondering if you could share with us any other areas where you're seeing a similar pull along with Windows 10 adoption. Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Sure, Heather. On the first one, on the mix between IaaS and PaaS and SaaS, we think that we are seeing quite frankly all of these are growing, but the most interesting thing for me as a pattern is growth in IaaS leads to growth in other PaaS or SaaS services. To put it very concretely, take something like Azure Active Directory. That's probably the best manifestation of the virtual cycle that we see in any of the cloud options that we have.

Right? It could be someone coming from Office 365. It's can be someone coming from Azure, Dynamics, EMS. All of those tenants get into Azure Active Directory, which is our largest PaaS service because it has got even developer API, so that means more developers are using it, more IT professionals are using it as the control plane. So that's the network effect that we see when it comes to the PaaS services.

And then in terms of infrastructure itself, as again I said, there's people who are tiering even applications, people who build hybrid applications where the storage could be even on premise in some cases, but the mid-tier and the web and the mobile back-ends are in the cloud. We see a lot of growth there.

We see a lot of growth in our data, both in terms of infrastructure, but in the new services like our Data Lake services, which are PaaS services. Hadoop is another good example. We see lots of Hadoop usage inside of IaaS, but we also see HDInsight growth. So I would say there is real good mix of those two.

And then on Windows 10, I'm very, very excited, obviously, about what's happening with Bing. Amy talked about, we have a $1 billion quarter with 29% growth and good share position growth in the United States. That's fantastic to see.

But gaming is the other place where we talked about Xbox Live. Now that spans both console and PC. We see increased engagement. Because of that, we see, in fact, increased engagement with titles like Minecraft, so we have some high hopes for what we can achieve with engagement around Xbox Live across the console plus PC.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Heather.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Satya, Michael Dell mentioned, with you on stage, a week ago, that he's seen from his perspective stronger Windows 10 adoption among enterprise customers, faster than he had seen in the past. I'm curious if you're starting to see a halo impact where those that are looking to move up are saying we want to go with more of the complete infrastructure set? Are you seeing different sales motions among those enterprise customers as those customers are coming back to you?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Brent. That is absolutely the case, that is we're seeing a much faster adoption cycle, obviously starting with the consumer side, but even the 8 million business PCs that are already running Windows 10. Before we have started in fact the push on enterprise, we expect the enterprise deployment to start in earnest the beginning of next calendar year or the second half of this fiscal year.

But to your point, the fact that there is pull already is a very, very good indicator of -- and a good sign, and it's even better than what we saw with Windows 7. So to me, that's all positive news, but yet we are very, very focused on delivering new value to the enterprise customers.

Because if you look at Windows 10, we've already talked a lot about all the consumer value, but just take security itself. Windows 10 represents a real breakthrough in terms of security on the endpoint, as well as in embedded, which we are very excited about in terms of driving the enterprise upgrade cycle.

BRENT THILL: Real quick, just for Amy on cash flow, is there anything that we should take into account this year versus what happened last year?

AMY HOOD: I don't think anything unique that I would bring up, no.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Brent.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Besides Azure in the Intelligent Cloud, you obviously have very, very good momentum on the classic server [and tools] business. Can you talk a little bit about the volume versus price effect that you see playing out here and how is it now and how do you expect that to play out going forward?

One of the things on Azure was usage, and you mentioned how that improved quite significantly. Satya, can you talk a little bit where you see that current usage standing and where do you think that can go? We obviously didn't get a number, just a growth rate, but where do we see usage, because that's obviously one of the things that one of your competitors keeps [poking] -- trying to knock on you?

SATYA NADELLA: The usage numbers is the one that, Raimo, that we talked about, which is doubling of compute, doubling of storage. We talked about the growth in EMS, which is a higher level service. We talked about the growth in Active Directory, so we have usage growth in Azure, which is very, very healthy.

AMY HOOD: And on the server question you asked at the beginning, let me say that we did see around 9% constant currency growth of the core server product. A lot of that was premium driven. I have a distinction between a price question that you asked versus seeing the value of a premium SKU and so I do think it was premium driven as opposed to a price driven, in particular.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Perfect. That's helpful. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Raimo.

OPERATOR: Karl Keirstead, Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I wouldn't mind going back to Windows 10. Three months ago on the June quarter call, the messaging was that Windows 10 would not likely lift Microsoft's performance results until the second half of FY16, yet it feels like, as early as this first quarter, it's creating a lift at least to the Windows OEM business. I just wanted to understand what's changed in the last three months such that it's having an earlier than expected positive impact on Microsoft? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Why don't I take that and Satya can add? In particular, what we saw this quarter was really as much about the mix of the devices that the OEMs are bringing to market, as it was in the absolute unit distinction. You saw that in the non-Pro revenue performance.

And so for us, really the way to think about the early signs of the impact were the strong device mix, some higher priced units across a wide variety of OEMs as we build into holiday, did provide some slightly better than expected results, as you noted in the non-Pro business. But really some of the other upside that we saw in the quarter was from things that are the second derivative of that, which was our search results were better than we had thought because of some of these results about where the PCs were upgraded and the pace at which they were upgraded.

And so I do think we are encouraged, as Satya said, but we are a quarter in, and what's exciting for us is really the opportunity we have going forward. We're excited about Q2 when the devices hit the shelves, we're excited to have so many first-party devices in Q2. Then the next stage after that, which is really the enterprise deployment, which as Satya mentioned we expect in the second half of the year, so it's early, but you're right, we did see some incremental improvement over what we expected.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay. Thank you, Amy.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Karl.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Amy, I'm wondering if you could talk about, on the computing side, the Personal Computing side, you talked about this quarter seeing growth ahead of the PC market. You alluded to a diversity of devices coming in the second half. How do you think about that variable in the model, say, beyond this launch period where you have a little bit of a differing mix going on in devices?

When you get to more of a steady-state out in years two and three of the Windows 10 launch, do you think you can grow ahead of the PC market, or do you think -- I know for the last few years, you've grown below the PC market. Just wondering how we should think about that?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Walter. Let me talk a little bit about what I said in my outlook. This quarter, as I just talked about, non-Pro outperformance versus the market was really due to a higher revenue per license. I expect that actually to continue into Q2. I expect our overall Pro business to remain in line with business PCs.

Once we worked through the end of XP bump, that really should be in line. And as we talked about, as we move through the year, I do expect things to more normalize overall in terms of RPL comparisons, but I do think that's probably the best way to think about the curve over the course of the year.

WALTER PRITCHARD: And then on the commercial licensing part, specifically within productivity, I know you had an old breakout and a new breakout where we don't see commercial licensing necessarily within productivity, but would you expect that piece, the commercial licensing within productivity, given the transition going on, to be stable, or with that decline as you see the transition over to the cloud in productivity, specifically?

AMY HOOD: Let me and if I missed the question or misunderstood it, you can help me again. You're asking about our core Office commercial business, the product side versus the service side.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Correct?

AMY HOOD: Okay. Good. The trend we saw there, as I said, we're 5% up in a constant currency basis. That was 70% cloud, minus 8% on-prem. That's a trend that's not new for us. We've thought about making this transition as quickly as possible, but what we're seeing, which you heard us talk about was the transition to increasing premium mix, selling more workloads, doing all that while we're growing the installed base.

So if you think back to how we've talked about the long-term -- the life-time value equation, it's those components that I really think about proving out over time and we had lots of encouraging signs about that. New users, Satya referenced, on the small business and mid-market side. Premium mix, we talked about how many premium services we're now selling.

And then in terms of renewals, they're quite good, which we talked about, and so all of those, when you talk about should we expect the traditional business to be in decline, I don't think that's new. What's important is our ability to switch it to the services and add more over time, that I really focus on.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mark Murphy, JPMorgan.

MARK MURPHY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Amy, I see the commercial bookings numbers in the KPI sheet, but I do not see the total bookings numbers. I'm wondering if you could comment on that, so that we can try to maintain a consistent analysis there, if it's relevant?

Also, Satya, now that SQL Server has taken over this number one position in the Gartner Quadrant for the database market, could you help us understand how the road map evolves from here? As we did notice, Amazon made its debut also in the leaders' quadrant and we're trying to understand how the movement to cloud platforms like Azure could further alter the database landscape and how you could capitalize on that?

AMY HOOD: Why don't you go first?

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, I'll go first. The data architecture that underlies what's happening in the enterprise underneath applications is going through a dramatic change. That said, the relational database itself remains still a very strong component, but not the only component anymore, both on premise and off premise. What we want to make sure, as a Company, is to cover all of that landscape with a very rich data platform.

So if you look at what we're doing, the length and breadth of our ambition, as well as our delivery today, everything from what SQL itself is doing, we have now all in memory workloads for OLTP, BI, data warehousing, built in. We have the ability to now tier even the database with the cloud. This is all the things that are coming in SQL 2016 and we're excited about that.

When it comes to the cloud itself, we have a PaaS service for SQL, which is very unique in terms of SQL Azure. We have now the Data Lake service for basically petabyte, exabyte scale data management. We have higher-level data services like Azure ML, which is about advanced analytics, a category we didn't even participate in the past, so we've entered that category. Revolution R fits into that.

So we have a very rich story, and this is not even talking about some of the other end user BI capabilities, like Power BI. So we have a very rich vision and execution on what is an expanding data platform opportunity, and it's nice to see us innovate on the new services, while we also, in what is still the big market, which is the relational database market, claim a leadership position.

AMY HOOD: And Mark, on the total bookings number, the reason we moved to commercial bookings is it's a far more comparable number to look at, period-to-period. Total bookings, because of the volatility, frankly, in consumer businesses in times like the holiday period, it can make it far more volatile than usually what many of you have been asking for, which is the continuity and health of the overall commercial business. If you want to get to total bookings, you just add back in all the consumer revenue is technically how you would do it, but I do think the more helpful KPI for us in terms of bookings is the commercial one.

MARK MURPHY: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan, RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks so much for squeezing me in and congrats on the quarter. Amy, I just had a couple. The first one, just your comment that the consumer Office business, you are seeing basically the subscription revenue now being larger than the offset, if you will, on the license side. Where do we stand with regard to that on the commercial side of the Office transition?

AMY HOOD: The way to think about that, how I look at -- the way I would generally say it is you could look at each of the KPI as we get. So the Office commercial business grew 5%, it was negative 8%, there's some transition earning back off the balance sheet. The total cloud is 70%.

When we start to get to this point, and the percentage we already have in the cloud, it is really an offset. And that's probably, frankly, been true a little bit longer than we've talked about technically in terms of what goes off and what comes on, given we've now got, as Satya said, 60 million users and more than that in terms of [SQL].

That can technically, Ross, be interesting in certain quarters of the year where we have very heavy expirations. And so it just depends year-over-year -- that's why the commercial is slightly harder to do it on because there's some volatility in the ins-and-outs based on seasonality.

ROSS MACMILLAN: But just if I think about the incremental subscription revenues from the commercial side versus the license declines, it sounds like this year, this fiscal year, we're making that pivot like we have made on the consumer side. Would that be a fair statement?

AMY HOOD: I want to make this simple, and unfortunately it's just slightly complicated. Because so much of our installed base was already on an annuity contract, it makes this transition mathematically hard. What you're asking is specifically for our transactional component, when the old transactional component has gone, but that's a component of the number not the total.

So it's why it's technically difficult to answer the question you're specifically asking, Ross. But the way I would think about it is, we are moving such a substantive piece of our EA business, and with our annuity mix all up in commercial, up to 86%, we're feeling very good about our ability to transition people at LTV and grow the business overall at a very high level.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Ross.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: So that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events with webcast and you can follow our comments at microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details and thank you for joining today.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, everyone.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151024ebam000ul
  


 HD
 Q4  2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,441 words
   PD
21 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the fourth-quarter FY15 Microsoft Corporation earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I'll now turn the conference over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations.

Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you.

Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website, www.microsoft.com/investor, is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. The non-GAAP measures exclude the impact of impairment, integration and restructuring charges and are included as additional clarifying items to aid investors in further understanding the Company's fourth-quarter and fiscal-year performance and the impact that these items and events have on the financial results.

The non-GAAP financial measures provided above should not be considered as substitute for, or superior to, the measures of financial performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. Unless otherwise specified, we will refer to non-GAAP metrics on the call.

All growth comparisons we make on the call relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless otherwise noted. For selected metrics on the call and in other earnings materials, we have provided growth rates in constant currency. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business is performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuation.

Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnotes of our Form 10-K and includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but excludes the impact of impairment and integration and restructuring charges.

We will post the prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 21, 2016.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release; in the comments made during this conference call; and in the risk factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris.

Good afternoon, everyone. Today we will share the results of the final quarter of the year and our optimism for the year ahead.

We delivered $22.2 billion in revenue this quarter and $93.6 billion in total revenue for the FY15, an increase in 8% year over year. We pushed forward in our transformation by focusing our investment in areas where we have differentiation and significant opportunity for future growth in large addressable markets. We galvanized around our mission and ambitions; we aligned our structure to deliver better products at a more rapid pace. We focused our advertising business on search; we focused on mapping efforts on higher level experiences and developer services; we restructured our form portfolio so that we can operate more efficiently near term while driving reinvention long term.

We invested more in new mobile applications, like Wunderlist, Acompli and Fundrise. We also strengthened our enterprise cloud platform by acquiring Revolution Analytics, Datazen, and BlueStripe in this quarter alone. And we are at the threshold of the Windows 10 launch. I am proud of these steps, and I am proud of the results we delivered in tandem.

In cloud alone, our annualized commercial cloud run rate surpassed $8 billion this quarter, and the revenue grew 88% year over year. We're on a strong trajectory towards our goal of $20 billion in FY18. With that as the backdrop, I want to walk you through the progress we're making in each one of our three ambitions.

Let me start with reinventing productivity and business processes, including our efforts across Office 365 and Dynamics. We continue to see strong demand for Office 365 and Dynamics products. We now have more than 15 million Office 365 customers, consumer subscribers; and customers are signing up at a pace of nearly 1 million per month. In addition, we surpassed 150 million downloads of office mobile on iOS and Android and have introduced a new version of Office for the Mac.

In the commercial space, the number of Office 365 users continues to climb, with seats growing 74% year over year. Office 365 now is in four out of five Fortune 500 enterprises, and more than 55% of the install base is on premium workloads. It is clear that we have success moving customers to the cloud, given half of all of the enterprise agreement renewals were for Office 365 this quarter.

Small and medium businesses offer one of our best opportunities for new growth in the cloud. In fact, for more than a year now, we have seen 50,000 new S&B customers adopt Office 365 every month. Last week at our Worldwide Partner Conference, we announced our new Office 365 premium SKU for business, E5. Now our customers will get rich new voice functionality and Skype for business, with Cloud PBX and PSE in conferencing; deep analytics with Delve Analytics and Power BI Pro; and advanced security features, such as Lockbox and Advanced Threat Protection.

With E5, we have expanded our market opportunity for Office 365 by more than 50 billion. This new E5 SKU and the launch of Office 2016 will drive one of the biggest new businesses for us.

Let's now turn to CRM. This market alone is 20 billion-plus and has massive opportunity for reinvention. Mainstreaming dynamics into our engineering sales and marketing efforts gives us the ability to participate in this large and growing market in a more meaningful way.

Last week, we announced the acquisition of FieldOne, which helps strengthen our dynamic CRM customer service offering. This quarter, total paid seats for Dynamics CRM online increased 140% year over year, and we have more than 8 million paid Dynamics seats across CRM and ERP in total, up 25% year over year. This creates a great foundation for future growth in our Dynamics business.

Next I want to share our progress in building the intelligent cloud platform, Azure. Again this quarter, we're seeing proof that preference for our cloud SaaS services creates growth for our cloud platform services. In Azure, both revenue and compute e-search increased by triple digits year over year. We tripled our revenue from Azure premium services this quarter, and the enterprise mobility services we now have 17,000 customers.

Appeal for Visual Studio Tools has grown to include developers beyond our traditional base, with some of the decisions we made to embrace open source with .NET and support across platform development. Since November, we have seen more than 5 million downloads of Visual Studio Community, the fastest ever adoption of a Visual Studio product. Visual Studio online continues to gain momentum with over 3.1 million registered users.

Business Intelligence and Analytics is another large, rapidly-growing market for us with an opportunity of more than $15 billion. We are focused on strengthening our offers in this space. Just last week, we announced the availability of Cortana Analytics Suite, a fully-managed big data and advanced analytics solution. We are not only building the tools, but are also delivering the insights customers need to transform their businesses.

Security is a key priority for our enterprise customers and another $30 billion market opportunity for us. And we're building capability to meet customers' needs. For example, we have made significant investments in security with Azure Key Vault, enabling our customers to protect data in the cloud with secure key management and encryption customers can control. We have four new certifications for Azure, bringing our certification and adaptation total to 22 globally, more than any other cloud platform today.

Our third bold ambition is to create more personal computing experiences with Windows and our devices. I am thrilled we are just days away from the start of Windows 10. It's the first step towards our goal of 1 billion Windows 10 active devices in the FY18. Our aspiration with Windows 10 is to move people from needing to choosing to loving windows.

Based on feedback from more than five million people who have been using Windows 10, we believe people will love the familiarity of Windows 10 and the innovation. It is safe, secure, and always up-to-date. Windows 10 is more personal and more productive with Cortana, Office, universal apps, and Continuum. And Windows 10 will deliver innovative new experiences, like inking on Microsoft Edge and gaming across Xbox and PCs, and also opens up entirely new device categories such as HoloLens.

Windows 10 will deliver significant value to enterprise customers as well. Windows 10 provides advanced security capabilities with additional features for hardware-based security, mobile work and data protection. It also provides a single device management platform across all devices, from phones to laptops to Internet of Things devices.

And Windows 10 helps enterprises stay up-to-date with Windows Update for business and Windows Store for business. While the PC ecosystem has been under pressure recently, I do believe that Windows 10 will broaden our economic opportunity and return Windows to growth.

First, we have an OEM ecosystem that is creating exciting new hardware designs for Windows 10. In fact, our OEM partners have over 2,000 distinct devices or configurations already in testing for Windows 10 upgrades, as well as hundreds of new hardware designs. We are delighted that the first of these exciting new devices will start to be available on Windows 10 launch date. And by this holiday, we will be selling the widest range of Windows hardware ever available.

Second, we will generate new growth through gross margin on our own differentiated first-party premium device portfolio. We will also significantly reduce our losses on the phone by operating more effectively and efficiently with a more focused portfolio.

Third, we will grow monetization opportunities across the commercial and consumer space. In the enterprise, customers will continue to value our unparalleled management security app dev and servicing capabilities. And for consumers, Windows 10 creates modernization opportunities with store, search, and gaming.

We're confident that these are the right levers to revitalize Windows and restore growth. The progress we made this quarter and the forward-looking guidance that Amy will share show the opportunity for renewed growth is real.

In hardware, both Surface and Xbox had an incredible Q4. We more than doubled Surface revenue, to nearly $900 million this quarter, capping off a year in which it delivered more than $3.6 billion in revenue. Both consumers and enterprise customers love this device. Surface is clearly a product where we have gotten the formula right, earned fans, and can apply this formula to other parts of the hardware portfolio.

Gaming is an important scenario for Windows 10, and our success with Xbox this quarter gives us a strong starting position heading into launch. Xbox Live users grew 22% this quarter and logged nearly 3.5 billion hours of game play. Our growing fan base is excited for the best games lineup in our history. All of this comes together with Windows 10, when fans can connect with each other, stream all of their Xbox One games to Windows 10, and experience the best virtual reality platform, given our partnership with Oculus Rift and Valve.

In search, Bing will now power both differentiated experiences on Windows 10, such as Cortana, as well as search and search advertising across the AOL portfolio of sites, in addition to the partnership we already have with Yahoo, Amazon, and Apple. With advertising revenue growth of 21% year over year, Bing will transition to profitability in the coming fiscal year.

It's been a strong year of progress. Above all else, I'm optimistic about our future. Our cloud services are accelerating fast, and Windows is positioned for renewed growth.

With that, I will hand it over to Amy to talk about this quarter's results in more detail. I look forward to rejoining you after that for questions. Thank you.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks.

Good afternoon, everyone. Our fourth-quarter results demonstrate the strong progress that we've made as a Company over the past year. Key strategic initiatives such as cloud, first-party hardware, and consumer services delivered significant growth as well as improved profitability.

Commercial customer renewals remained healthy, with strong adoption of cloud services and a higher mix of annuity than we expected. And our disciplined approach to resource allocation has allowed us to increase investment in the growth initiative Satya mentioned, while reducing the Company's operating expenses. This allows us to better compete in markets with structural growth, where we feel we have unique competitive advantages.

With that said, I will start with an overview of our financial performance before moving into a more detailed discussion of the results. This quarter, we recorded an impairment charge related to our Phone Hardware business and incurring integration and restructuring expenses. Additionally, like most multi-national companies, the strengthening of the US dollar continues to have a significant impact on our reported results. Accordingly, when applicable, I'll give results and gross rates adjusting for the impairment, integration, and restructuring expenses, but also in constant currency to help you better understand the underlying business fundamentals.

Revenue was $22.2 billion, down 5% and down 2% in constant currency. As a reminder, last year included $382 million of revenue that we recognized at the conclusion of our commercial agreement with Nokia. Significant gross margin improvement across commercial cloud, surface and our consumer services, helped to mitigate the impact on gross margin from the decline in D&C licensing.

Total gross margin declined 7% and 3% in constant currency. Operating income declined 3% and 1% in constant currency. Earnings per share was $0.62, growth of 11% and growth of 8% in constant currency. Unearned revenue grew 1% to $25.3 billion and 7% in constant currency. Commercial unearned was better than expected, as we saw a higher mix of annuities in the quarter.

From a geographic perspective, the majority of markets performed in line with our expectations. The notable exception was Brazil, where inflation and macroeconomic volatility weighed on our performance. Overall, macro conditions remain a challenge in some large opportunity markets like China, Russia, Japan, and Brazil. There was slightly less impact from currency than our expectation.

With that backdrop, I'll move to a detailed discussion of our results. Q4 last year effectively marked the end of the XP refresh cycle. It impacted our Windows OEM and non-annuity volume licensing, as well as our Office non-annuity volume licensing results. During that time, OEM revenue exceeded that of the underlying PC markets, driven by higher attach of Pro, particularly within the developed markets.

This quarter, Pro declined by roughly 21%; and, similar to last quarter, we saw Pro attach from main at pre-XP levels, even with the underlying softness in the business PC market. The annuity portion of Windows via licensing grew again on a constant currency basis, with non-annuity revenue declining due to XP. Windows non-Pro revenue declined 27% as OEMs tightly managed PC inventory ahead of the Windows 10 launch, particularly in developed markets. In our view, this is a healthy state for the channel as we head into a transformational launch that starts next week.

Consumer Office 365 had another strong quarter of net subscriber growth. Overall, consumer office revenue results reflected the decline in the underlying driver of that business, developed market consumer PC sales. Within D&C licensing, the transition to Office 365 accounted for 13 points; and the impact of Japan's PC market accounted for another 19 points.

We had another impressive quarter in search, with revenue growth at 21% and 25% in constant currency. Driven by increases in both volume and revenue per search. As Satya said, revenue from Surface more than doubled this quarter, with continued strength of Surface Pro 3 and launch of Surface 3. Enterprise sales accelerated this quarter, and sales of Surface 3 were particularly strong to educational customers.

Our differentiated products, as well as improved discipline and execution, helped to improve gross margins by over $450 million this quarter and $1.3 billion in FY15. Within Xbox, strong growth in consoles, online transactions, and first-party games, helped to drive growth of 27%. This progress, as well as the excitement that we generated at E3 with Xbox exclusive gaming content and backward compatibility, demonstrates the building momentum that exists within the Xbox ecosystem.

In phones, we sold 8.4 million Lumias, which is increase over last year's full-quarter sales. ASPs, however, have continued to decline. Gross margin declined this quarter, driven by lower per-unit margins on Lumia devices as well as reduced volumes in non-Lumia phones. As announced on July 8, we're changing our approach in this business and are focused on delivering differentiated experiences for our targeted customer segments, while improving our operating results.

Moving to our commercial results, total revenue across our two segments grew slightly in USD and grew 4% in constant currency. Our contracted, not billed balance, which is a key indicator of customer commitment, reached an all-time high of over $24.5 billion. And it reached this level even with the significant appreciation in the US dollar. Constant currency bookings were flat to the prior year, though as a reminder last year commercial bookings grew 23% on the strength of a large renewal base as well as the end of XP, discussed earlier.

Our Office commercial business continues to transition to Office 365. We again grew the installed seat base of Office, Exchange, SharePoint and Skype for business. Office 365 allows us to have a deeper ongoing relationship with all of our customers, which in turn provides us with the opportunity to expand and grow our business over time. Because of this transition, as well as weakness in Japan and the impact of XP, Office commercial products and services grew 1% in constant currency, quite similar to Q3.

Dynamics revenue grew 15% on a constant currency basis, driven by the strong CRM results Satya talked about and our ERP business, which saw 35% growth in customers this quarter. Server products and services grew 4% and 9% in constant currency, continuing to outperform our peers in the enterprise software sector. People server share growth continues as customers value its high performance and lower cost of ownership. Revenue and licenses of Windows Server grew against the backdrop of a declining server hardware market.

In the public cloud space, we had another quarter of significant Azure usage growth. Additionally, we significantly grew the gross margin percentage in our commercial Other segment, increasing 13 points to over 43%.

Moving to operating expenses, which declined 9% or 4% in constant currency. Our continued disciplined approach has allowed us to incrementally fund strategic initiatives without having to increase our expense base. Other income was favorable to our expectation, driven by gains on foreign currency and sales of investments. Our non-GAAP effective tax rate was 24%, and was at the high end of our guided range due in part to strong performance in our computing and gaming hardware segment in the US.

We returned $6.7 billion to shareholders this quarter, nearly double the amount from last year. With that overview of the current quarter, let me turn to our outlook, starting with a few overall comments.

As we have communicated over the past couple of months, the accounting for Windows 10 will change. We will be deferring a portion of Windows 10 revenue, primarily OEM, and recognizing it over time- generally two to four years. As shared previously, the initial deferral and the subsequent recognition of those deferrals will be netted in Corp and Other in our segment reporting. Most importantly, underlying billings and cash flow won't change. Therefore, our commentary in this and subsequent earning calls including our guidance will focus on results prior to the net deferral impact, which we believe is the best reflection of business health.

With that background, let me share some thoughts on FY16. The strengthening of the US dollar will continue to have a significant impact on our results over the course of FY16. Assuming rates across our largest currencies, the euro, Japanese yen, and the British pound stay in line with current rates. And that the geographic mix of revenue stays as forecasted.

In our non-annuity businesses, the impact is immediate as the revenue is recognized in quarter. In our annuity business, revenue is deferred and the impact is delayed, as we earn the revenue off the balance sheet. In total, we expect the FX will negatively impact total revenue growth by 5 points in each quarter of H1, with 7 points of negative impact in our Commercial segment. H1 would be the peak of the FX headwinds. And in H2, we expect FX to have 3 points of negative impact in total and roughly 4 points of negative impact on our Commercial revenue.

With Windows 10 we expect momentum to build throughout the year as we and our partners bring the devices, applications, and services to market. We expect this to benefit our business results in the second half of the fiscal year. With the strength in Xbox and Xbox Live, along with the launch of Halo 5 in October, Xbox will continue to grow both fans and profitability.

With the recently-announced changes in Phone, there will be significant revenue declines year over year in the Phone segment each quarter. With the proactive measures we've taken to reduce our cost structure, overall losses will also decline for the fiscal year. We would expect the majority of that improvement in the second half of the year, once the restructuring efforts are materially complete.

Bing will be profitable in FY16. And assuming the macro environment is stable, we expect our commercial momentum will continue, highlighted by growth in our commercial cloud. We remain on track to achieve our $20 billion commercial cloud ambition in FY18.

We now expect operating expenses to be $32.1 billion to $32.4 billion, which is lower than the guidance we provided in April. The lowered guidance reflects the savings from our restructuring of the Phone business, as well as important investments to drive top line growth as we support Windows 10, our first-party hardware efforts, as well as sales headcount to accelerate our leadership position in the commercial cloud. We expect our full-year tax rate to be 24%, plus or minus 1 point, excluding the net impact from the Windows 10 deferral.

Now to Q1, starting with Devices and Consumer. In Licensing, we expect revenue to be $3.4 billion to $3.6 billion. This range reflects Windows revenue roughly in line with the PC market. Within Consumer Office, we expect the transition to Office 365 subscriptions to continue.

In Computing and Gaming Hardware, we expect revenue to be $2.0 billion to $2.1 billion. As a reminder, we launched Surface Pro 3 in late June last year, with launch benefits extending into Q1. In Phone Hardware, we expect revenue to be approximately $900 million, reflecting our change in approach. We expect gross margin in Phones to improve sequentially in Q1.

In Devices and Consumer Other we expect revenue to be $2.2 billion to $2.3 billion, with continued growth in Bing, Consumer Office 365, and Xbox Live transactions. And in Commercial, as I discussed previously, we expect a significant FX headwind this quarter. Our constant currency growth is expected to be about 7% in Q1, which assumes we continue to take share in key markets and build momentum in the new areas we have entered. With the negative impact of FX, we expect revenue roughly flat.

In Commercial Licensing, we expect revenue of $9.1 billion to $9.2 billion, with a continued shift to annuity. And in Commercial Other, with significant growth in our cloud revenue of $3.1 billion to $3.2 billion. We expect COGS to be $7.0 billion to $7.2 billion, with the variability being driven by the Hardware segment. We expect operating expenses to be $7.6 billion to $7.7 billion.

As a reminder, Other Income and Expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. Given the current FX environment, we expect our net cost of hedging to increase and Other Income and Expense to be negative $200 million. Excluding the Windows 10 deferral and the impact of foreign currency, we expect the sequential decline in unearned to be slightly better than historic seasonality, driven by the growing mix of annuity revenue.

In closing, I am proud of the tremendous amount of progress that our Company has made over the past year. We have improved how we operate in virtually every sense. These changes have allowed us to aggressively invest in areas that will drive future growth for the Company. I'm looking forward for a better position to capitalize on the significant opportunities ahead of us.

With that, let me turn it back over to Chris for the Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Amy.

We'll now move to Q&A.

Operator, please repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from Phil Winslow from Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congrats on a great quarter. I wanted to double click on Office 365. You guys showed another huge quarter of growth in terms of consumer seat count and I think it was 86% growth on the commercial other side for Office 365. What have you just drill into the consumer and then the enterprise side, just the trends you're seeing there and obviously the guidance you all just provided looks like you expect those trends to continue in Q1. So any color there would be great.

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, I'll take that. Overall we are very excited about the growth we're seeing in Office 365. On the consumer side, as you noted, we're growing a million subs a month and that is fantastic growth for us. The consumer value, especially now that we have even all of the endpoints covered with Office, the definition of Office and where all is present, is also changed and that all accrues to consumers being willing to have this subscription relationship with us.

On the enterprise side the growth remains very exciting for us and the growth comes in multiple forms. It comes in the form of just the EAs renewing more to Office 365. It also comes in the form of, from the more comprehensive suite the E3 and the new E5, that is the commitment we're seeing. And we also see small businesses. I talked about the 50,000 businesses, small and medium-sized businesses each month signing up for Office 365. That is pretty unprecedented having been in the server business all my life, I've never seen a lot of the small business customers adopt some of the rich capabilities like it's possible now and that's great growth as well. And that cloud revenue number, that is the 88% is all up cloud revenue, inclusive of Office 365, EMS and Azure. And it is good to see that kind of growth at that kind of scale now, with 8 billion.

AMY HOOD: One thing I would add, Phil, to that, is an important dynamic that we're seeing in Office 365, is as we are having this momentum build and Satya talked about some of the new customers we're adding and the way we see that is in the install base growing. And we were able to see that this quarter across all the core work loads in Office. And when you think about why that is so critical long term, it's our ability to sell some of the workloads Satya actually referenced, they'll be in E5 when it launches. They have the capability of upgrading on a more consistent basis, using more of these premium services. When you can both add to your install base and add overall market opportunity, we do feel good about our line of sight in that business to our long-term goals.

PHIL WINSLOW: Great. Thanks, guys. Congrats, again.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Phil We'll take the next question.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon, Satya, the server business continues a steady out-performance and as Amy pointed out, better growth than your peers. Couple of questions as it relates to the Windows 2003 retirement and any impact you're seeing there. And secondarily if you can just comment on some of the new product launches. Seems like there is a stack of new solutions that are coming on the server side that look pretty exciting and your partners are excited about it. If you could highlight what you see as the most interesting from your perspective over the next several quarters.

SATYA NADELLA: I started with the bold view that my server is not the legacy business. We fundamentally think of our servers as the extension of the cloud, how you would describe it architecturally as the edge of our Cloud, every server for example has things like disaster recovery, backup and tier with the cloud. And so we will continue to push that differentiation. Because I think that view architecturally and the delivery of it is what makes us pretty unique. And you see it in the numbers. Our servers, even this quarter grew 9% and competitive industry peers we're obviously gaining share on Windows Server, on SQL server and pretty much all of our management and security products, as well. And going forward we have a fantastic lineup of servers, not just the infrastructure, but even SharePoint, Exchange, LINQ our server continues to have significant on-premise deployment.

So as our cloud continues to grow, obviously we are getting where there is more capability in the cloud, we're incenting customers and our partners to move to the cloud. But at the same time we are going to have a great server wave, I'm excited about our SQL product. I think it goes into the first preview next, in fact tomorrow, and that product I think is a pretty revolutionary product. Because for the first time you could take a single table in a database and you would tier it with the cloud. And that kind of capability only we can provide and that's something that I'm looking forward to.

AMY HOOD: Brent, to your specific question on Windows Server 2003, we did have a good quarter, we talked about in Windows Server. But in general, that business, unlike the client upgrades that we've seen, just because so much of the business is already on annuity, you don't see that type of incremental impact in a in-quarter release. That isn't to say there isn't ample opportunity for us to make sure we upgrade customers to the higher value prop and more secure and more manageable offerings we have in the server business.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Brent. Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler from Bernstein Research.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Nice quarter. When I drill in, in terms of move to the cloud, this quarter year over year server product and services revenue growth was slower than in the past quarters. How much of that is because you're seeing now some revenue shift to Azure? Or is it not yet seeing any revenue shift going? And then I have a follow-up question.

AMY HOOD: Why don't I take that one and we'll see what Mark's follow-up is. At 9% growth and continuing to take share, I feel like our performance in this continues to be a positive outlier to the peer group. And for me, that type of performance and double-digits for the year I feel quite good about.

In general what is interesting I think as you're getting to the crux of it is, do we have incremental work loads that are unique to the cloud that we continue to see that, the very best example, frankly, as Satya mentioned in his comments, which is our EMS performance, mobility suite offerings. It is taking something that is very unique, builds off of our core in the server business and allows us to both grow and add new perspectives there. So I don't think of it as reflecting a bigger shift than we've seen in particular this quarter. Also, if you'll remember, a year ago we had a very big base of expirations in Q4 and had very strong performance a year ago. I don't look at it as a direct trend line.

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, the only thing I'll add is that I look at the total growth of Azure, the growth that's coming now from some of the premium services, this is businesses that actually did not ever participate on premise at all. Even EMS, when I think our management, our management was just about Windows management. But we now have management data protection and identity systems that cross all devices in the enterprise, including Internet of Things and that makes it pretty exciting and that growth is great to see.

Same thing on the server management. We have a new suite called the operations management suite which also spans all of the cloud units as well as on-premise units. Cortana Analytics, we never participated in any of the advanced analytics work loads at all, in spite of the success we had in the database business. So I'm excited about built new workloads that in many cases are born in the cloud workloads where we are expanding our market opportunity and continuing to outperform our peers and grab share when it comes to on-premise.

MARK MOERDLER: That's very helpful. Switching gears a bit, on Windows, obviously you're seeing some amount of delay due to Windows 10 on the OEM side. Can you give maybe a little more higher color in terms of how you're thinking about that, how big a delay is it, how much we could see that starting to be replaced next quarter and beyond?

SATYA NADELLA: I'll take that and Amy you can add to it. The way the Windows ecosystem works is that there are phases to it. In fact, if anything, this release of Windows 10 just the way we have built it with the insider a program, everything is of course speeding up because in some sense we have taken a very different approach with this Windows as a service, even when it comes to OEM relations and how they're able to co-create the products with us.

That is there are three distinct phases. The first phase is what I would describe as the upgrade phase, that is what starts in a week's time. That is at more retail execution and upgrades. Then come the fall you will see the devices from all of the OEMs going into the holiday quarter. And then the enterprise upgrades, in fact, we have a release of enterprise features which I mentioned in my script, which will ship in that time frame and I expect piloting to start and deployments to start in the second half of the fiscal year. So that's how I would think about the OEM as well as enterprise adoption. So my bullishness for Windows 10 is more in the second half of the fiscal year, and of course it will build. It will build starting in a week's time in retail and in the upgrades, but I sort of see this in three phases.

AMY HOOD: And to your specific question, Mark before every launch we tend to have a tightening in the channel as they prepare and run reasonably lean, this is a healthy state. It is within the range of normal. So I don't think of it as a delay in the way you're talking about it. It is pretty standard, as Satya talked about in terms of the dynamic, and he mentioned we are feeling, I think, a lot of excitement from the ecosystem about what's possible with some of the new devices that will come, and so I don't really think of it in that way. I think about it as an encouragement that they want to fill the channel as quickly as they can over the coming quarters with new machines.

MARK MOERDLER: Thank you. I appreciate it.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss from Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Nice quarter, guys, thank you for taking the question. I wanted to drill into sort of the new strategy around the phone business a little bit. The revenue expectation for Q1, I think it was below our expectations, I think it was below what the street was looking for. Can you give us a sense of how you see that business trending over a longer period of time. There is significant restructuring going on. I don't think a lot of guys have a good view in their head of what your expectation is for this business on a revenue run rate, or what do you expect to sell this year on going-forward basis right now?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and maybe you can add to this. The big shift that we are making when it comes to phones is to not think about phones in isolation. That's perhaps the biggest shift. Because I think about Windows 10 in its entirety, the Windows ecosystem in its entirety. We're clearly are going to have premium first party portfolio. You have seen some of the numbers, some of the progress we have made in Surface. I feel that we have a formula there that I would like to apply more broadly in terms of growing, just delivering innovation, growing our own economic return for it, stimulating demand, creating categories, all of that is what I want to do broadly. It applies to phones. It applies to Surface. It applies to HoloLens, and that is how I view it.

I believe our participation in the phone segment by itself, the Windows phones and Lumia phones is important. That's why we picked the three areas where we have differentiation and we want to focus on it. We want to have great flagship phones for Windows. That is actually a segment that we don't today have good devices and we hope to change that with Windows 10.

We have in fact good traction in the business segment. So this is business customers who are actually buying phone devices which is basically a radio with a, you know, essentially a smartphone, to be able to deploy their line of business applications. That is where we have pretty unparalleled value. Which is we have the Visual Studio online and some of the tools I talked about, so you can generate these apps at a low cost of ownership, manage them, secure them and deploy them to our phone end points and then of course, management and security. That's the place where we want to continue to focus.

And in the value of smartphone, that's the place I want us to be much more efficient. We clearly have some value to add there because of the uniqueness of Office and Skype and our services, but at the same time I think we want to be smart about how many of these phones do we want to generate? How many -- which price points we want to participate? That's where you will see the most significant operational changes from how we operated last year to the coming year.

AMY HOOD: So, Keith, the way that I think about it, I tried to outline it in my comments, is that the significant revenue declines quarter over quarter through the year are a reflection of the focused approach we're going to take in phone. It is an approach that we've executed in other, hardware segment, that I feel is a proven model for us. Our profitability will also improve.

More of that comes in the second half of the year structurally as we complete some of the restructuring efforts and those costs come out of our operating expense run rate. But I think that's probably is the way to more appropriately think about over time you would expect to see gross margin improvement, and operating profit improvement, as opposed to focusing on the revenue line.

KEITH WEISS: Can I sneak one more in on the security side of business? I think a lot of guys talked about security something that Microsoft does to make their platform more secure and provide more confidence in users using your platforms and your tools. On a going-forward basis is there more of an opportunity for you guys to sell security as more of a standalone opportunity? It's something that is in very high demand, looking for more secure solutions. Is this something that could potentially be more of a standalone opportunity for Microsoft on a going-forward basis.

SATYA NADELLA: We are adding significant value in security. It is much better for us, for example, to add capabilities around O365 and security, and that is all in for example the new suite that we just announced called E5, the secured lockbox. That is actually a very cool set of features that allow both regulators and businesses to have, for example, [audit] ability control over their movement to the cloud.

Similarly Azure, while we launched a whole set of security offers around how people can encrypt and manage keys, so those are all security features. We bought a company called Erado that's essentially a firewall on all right identity management. When we talk about enterprise management suite growth, a lot of it is obviously is management growth, but it is also security and data protection growth. So the approach we are taking is we are essentially creating to your point, security value around our products, which allows us to participate in essentially a security market that we never did in the ways that we are. So it's more than just launching one point security product. It's much more broadly participating in the security market and you have seen some of that in the inorganic moves and the suites we have created.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. Thank you, guys.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard from Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Amy, just for you on the annuity, it looks like annuity is 82% of the commercial revenue the last two quarters. How high do you think that goes? It sounds like you do expect that to continue to go up, although probably never gets to 100%.

AMY HOOD: I do think over the long term you're right that is how I think about it and frankly inherent in the conversation around moving to the cloud, with the aggressive targets we've given that is sort of implied to your point, and so I think 100% is not the logical answer. There will always be somebody who chooses to purchase on a one-time basis, or there is a logic to it. But I do think over time we do expect that to trend in that general direction.

WALTER PRITCHARD: And then, Satya, you mentioned CRM in your prepared comments, which we haven't really heard you talk that much about as an area of interest in the past. I'm wondering what changed in your view, or how do you look to sort of bring that into, it sounds like more the core productivity scenario that you deliver?

SATYA NADELLA: I mean, overall business process collaborations, communication, these category boundaries are things that I believe are going to change. I've always felt that, you know, in some sense most of the time we even automate business processes would be spend really getting our business done in our communication and collaboration tools and these impedance is something that I've always dreamt of-- how do we could [solve] and CRM has taken our dynamic product has taken some pretty unique approaches, and quite frankly I want to open up our communications and collaborations for other CRM ventures. One of the things that I am very explicit about is we will have an open platform for other business process applications because it is a very fragmented market world over, especially if you add SNB. We want to be having a platform play as well as our own business applications play and both of them should be high growth for us. In the last year we've just adding more focus and we put more selling capacity around it, more marketing capacity and now of course have mainstreamed it across Microsoft. I'm a big believer in this.

Because I think we have something unique to add as opposed to driving our own top line, bottom line growth, I think we can bring real innovation and that is what is exciting to see. It is not just CRM. I'm actually excited about our ERP business, some of the numbers that Amy talked about is growth. When I think about data as the new currency, we have lots of managed seats and a lot of data, which all will move to the cloud and so things like [Power BI] and Cortana Analytics could help customers transform. So in fact, that's one of the reasons I'm very optimistic about our new data capabilities, is we have the attach capability to our install base dynamic.

AMY HOOD: And, Walter, just quickly, this is one of the areas that we invested in actually leading into this past year FY15. The results have actually been better than we anticipated when we first made the investments. So I think we both feel very good about the momentum that's built for the year.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Great. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Walter. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Karl Keirstead from Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Question for Amy on the cost control front, looks like you once again came in below your OpEx guide. But I think that the COGS number came a little bit above what you had guided to three months ago, and I'm just wondering if you could talk through that, obviously it affects everybody's gross margin calculations. Was it the hardware mix shift? Was it the challenges with the phone business? Perhaps a little color there might help us. Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Sure, Karl. Because of the performance in Xbox and in Surface, you're right, it is a hardware mix shift a bit. We outperformed significantly in both those products in Q4, and that does, took a little bit outside the COGS range but not as much as our revenue outperformed. So actually, margins structurally were better than I thought they would be. And so actually I feel quite good with that outperformance and our ability to see that outperformance fall to the bottom line through stronger execution on gross margin percentage, particularly in that segment.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay. Good. That's helpful. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Karl. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thanks for taking my question. I wanted to go back at Azure, you obviously have strong momentum there. Can you talk a little bit about the use cases you see from your enterprise and SNB customers, is this going to very much test and development situation or do you see kind of a broad adoption there, besides obviously Office 365, et cetera? Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: At this point I would say that it is pretty broad even use cases for even enterprise customers. There is definitely dev tests happening, there is production IaaS infrastructure as a service deployment, given some of the new high performance SKUs and storage options that we have. And we are seeing significant adoptions of SQL, this is Azure DB, machine learning as a service.

One of the things that we realize is that every company out there becomes a software company, beyond even our traditional reach to IT, everyone has a digital office inside the company. They're in fact doing things in advanced analytics, and using machine learning and that's the place where we have some very unique capabilities. That is another place we're seeing wide adoption. We're seeing adoption in the building of new front ends, or back ends for new front ends, essentially using Azure as the cloud backend for their mobile apps across Android iOS and Windows as well as their web. That is another use case that is high growth for us.

And, of course, Cortana Analytics, this is the big data side of it. It is happening in IT, it is happening in as I said in digital offices within each one of the customers. So we have a pretty broad spectrum of use cases. Some of the customers have talked about even in the recent set of conferences, from our partner conference to our Ignite conference, we have in fact showcasing, even our ad campaign showcases some of these use cases.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman-Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you. I just had two questions, pretty quick ones. Just to follow up on Azure. I was wondering if you could share with us what you're seeing the mix between IaaS and PaaS and kind of how you have seen that shift evolve over the last few quarters.

Secondly, just to follow up on Walter's question, yes, you definitely have been focussing on the customer relationship management opportunity in the financials market more, but given the big SaaS incumbent already competing in that area, can you share with us, do you think you have the assets you need internally to execute against your long-term goals?

SATYA NADELLA: Sure. IaaS and SaaS is an interesting question. I've not looked at it in isolation. Because what happens is, at least the use cases, what starts off as IaaS suddenly will start using Azure for identity management, will use a little bit of our media services, for example, just doing content and end quoting. So there is a mix always. There is nothing pure PaaS, nothing pure IaaS. That is a trend I see.

But it's split that we should go take a look at and then off-line maybe even talk about it. But overall we see significant amount of IaaS in the last year. Because that's probably in the place where we had more of a weakness which we have now overcome. So we have seen significant growth of IaaS in the enterprise. But the place where we continue to have significant differentiation is in some of these managed services at PaaS, and that I think is the mix on it.

And then on the Dynamics side I absolutely believe we have a huge opportunity, having sort of worked in business applications for a long time, first of all, the market is very fragmented. I think people like to talk about leaders and there are clearly leaders when you go to the very top of the enterprise customers in segment. But the way the markets flips into verticals and then into horizontals and then the platforms effect there's plenty of opportunity. For sure you've got to be one of the players. It will be three players, four players, or whatever. In every technology paradigm you want to be one of them.

We only have a $2 billion plus dynamics business, I talked about the total number of seats and now we have this triple digit CRM on-line growth. So I feel that we're in a good position and I feel that things we'll look at and even some of the inorganic means to keep growing it. In fact the field service acquisition I talked about in my script is an example of that. So that's my bullishness on our business process prospects.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan from RBC Capital Markets.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks for taking my question. First on OpEx, the guidance, Amy, is impressive. I presume that fully accommodates the restructuring announced two weeks ago, and then last year you said core Microsoft ex NDS would be down slightly in OpEx. I wondered if you can provide a similar comment for FY16 for core Microsoft ex phone?

AMY HOOD: Sure, I talked a little bit about it but let me go into a bit of detail of that. I think the first half of your question was does the $32.1 billion to $32.4 billion full-year OpEx guide reflect the timing of the implementation of our restructuring. And it certainly does. And so what you can then see related the second half of your question, is that we are taking some of those savings and investing them back into the business in some of these key growth areas we've seen.

I outlined three on the call. The third one I probably could have expanded more on. The first one is Windows 10. The second is the first party hardware, where we just had such terrific performance again this Q4. And then finally the third bucket was about accelerating our commercial cloud lead. I do feel like in that area we could invest in Office 365, some of the new E5 capabilities, I look forward to adding sales capacity to take advantage of that. We'll also add sales capacities across some of the other opportunities we've seen broadly. So I look and see that as an opportunity to accelerate top line growth.

SATYA NADELLA: One thing I'll just add, because a lot of folks even asked about our business process and business application, I want to build a long-term profitable business. In other words, one of the keys in biz app is you can always get into the trap of over spending in sales and marketing and not having long-term leverage at all. One of the things I feel very good about our position is how do you really build a long-term profitable business? That is front and center to me. So we will not overspend on sales and marketing because we do believe the products are a different way to sell even business process applications because of the cloud and that is something we want to take advantage of.

ROSS MACMILLAN: I had one quick follow up, if I could. That is helpful. On Analysts Day you did talk about I think it was 8% unit growth for the Office ecosystem over the last three years and sounds like you continued to see nice unit growth in Office. How should we think about that going forward? Are you fully expecting to continue to see unit growth? And also just a clarification. I think your customer lifetime value was based on existing SKUs. So as you introduce E5 and others, does that open up potential for even higher customer lifetime value?

AMY HOOD: I do think the work was showed at the analyst meeting on the importance of increasing the install base across Office and Exchange, it did occur again this quarter. I feel good that we're staying on the trajectory that we showed and the projections. I do continue to expect that to happen as we share back that last week in April.

On the second half of your question. I tend to think, you're right, generically, each of the examples were quite different. There were people that were upgrading from X to Y, there were people that were just simply moving to the cloud. But one of the things that the cloud, to your point makes fundamentally possible, is the opportunity for us to quickly iterate the opportunities, build value and deploy it more quickly to customers, and generally I do think that they will pay us for that, to your specific question. I also think the importance of it is that it tends to also come with higher margins. So our improvement and continued improvement in our commercial cloud gross margin portfolio, I think this is a key criteria of that. So I associate it, yes, with lifetime value, I also associate our ability to move our gross margin percentage up.

ROSS MACMILLAN: That's great. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: One last question, please.

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Daniel Ives, FBR Capital.

DANIEL IVES, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thanks, just one last one just on M&A. Maybe you could just talk through any change in the strategy, obviously what is happening with the peer write-down, the security acquisition, going into fiscal year, how you're thinking about M&A in the scheme of everything, especially you guys have proved tight on cost control and everything else. Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Overall and the way I look at it is -- first of all, I'm most focused, on obviously, our organic growth, and in there, Amy alluded to this, we made significant changes in how we have allocated our own organic dollars, both in R&D as well as in sales and marketing. And we'll continue to do that because I think there is significant new opportunities for us to go after, and that will require us to just reallocate aggressively and that to me is core.

But beyond that we will look at inorganic means. When I look at all of the acquisitions that we have made over the course of the last year, and our OpEx guidance for next year, shows how disciplined we are in bringing new talent in. Be it in R&D, be it in sales and marketing. So we are not afraid to bring in new capability.

But I'm also questioning what is the allocation we have. Of course, we have done smaller acquisitions, but they add up, they're pretty significant. When you add up all of the things that we have done in the Office 365 space, all of the things we have done in the Azure space. So we'll continue to do that. And if anything comes up in M&A which allows us to pursue our strategic vision, that we will need to even allocate more to on an OpEx basis, post acquisition, we will look at that. So I won't shy away from it, because what's important to us is growth in areas where we have something unique to contribute and long-term profitability.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast, you can follow our comments at the www.Microsoft.com/investor website. Please contact us if you need any additional details and thank you for joining us today.

AMY HOOD: Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150722eb7l005xx
  


 HD
 Q3  2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,779 words
   PD
23 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft third-quarter FY15 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question and answer session will follow the formal presentation.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. At this time, I'd like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager Investor Relations for Microsoft. Thank you Chris, you may begin.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. On our website, microsoft.com/investor, we have posted our press release and a slide deck that provides a summary of our results this quarter.

Unless otherwise specified, all growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year. For selected metrics on the call and in other earnings materials, we have also provided growth rates in constant currency. We present constant currency information to provide a framework for assessing how our underlying business is performed, excluding the effect of foreign currency rate fluctuation.

Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnotes of our 10-Q, and includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but excludes integration and restructuring charges. We will post the prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website until April 23, 2016.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainty. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our form 10K, form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

With that, I will turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone.

Today, I will focus my remarks on our three business areas -- cloud, Windows, and devices. Next week at Build, our developer conference, I'll share more about our ambitions and how our next generation platforms will empower every person and organization.

This quarter we delivered $21.7 billion in revenue, an increase of 6% year-over-year or 9% in constant currency. We have seen the impact of foreign exchange, geopolitical trends in certain geographies, and product transitions. We are taking steps to respond quickly and adjust our plans as needed, while we continue to move forward in our transformation.

Overall, I'm pleased with our business performance. More importantly, though, it's clear that we are well on our way to transforming our products and businesses across all of Microsoft. The early signs are evident in how are customers are using our products, which I will share throughout my remarks today.

Our momentum in the Cloud is a highlight; increasingly, customers are choosing Microsoft Cloud services to transform their own businesses. Going beyond just moving existing workloads to the Cloud, these results showcase our ability to transform and perform simultaneously. With that in mind, I will walk you through the quarter, starting with our Cloud business.

At the core of our results, this quarter is incredible growth across a growing portfolio of Cloud services. Our commercial cloud business is a source of strength driven by Office 365, Azure, and Dynamics CRM. Our commercial cloud annualized run rate now stands at $6.3 billion, marking the seventh consecutive quarter of triple-digit revenue growth.

Office 365 is clearly a key growth driver. Like any cloud service, we track how people are actually using it. We are proud that Office 365 is a vibrant, active service.

Right now there are nearly 50 million Office 265 monthly active users inside businesses. Exchange online alone sees about 60 billion requests per day from all connected clients. About 70 billion transactions are user actions, and there are 830 million meetings a month created in Office.

We are increasing our Office value opposition for businesses with new mobile device management capabilities built into Office 365 and through our continued commitment to customer data compliance and security. We released new versions of Office Delve for mobile devices, and earlier this month, we rolled out Skype for Business to the Office 365 customers worldwide.

Finally, in anticipation of the release of Windows 10, we've announced a preview of new touch-first Office universal app. Small and medium-sized customers are adopting Office 365 at a continued rapid pace led by more than 65,000 Office 365 partners. 30 telecommunications companies are already offering 365 to small and medium-sized customers, including some of the largest in the world. In Q3, we announced a new partnership with T-Mobile to bring Office 365 to more customers and enhanced our partnership with Go Daddy.

At Build next week, I will talk even more about Office as a platform and how developers can connect into the Office framework to both harness the rich data, and have their own application extensions available to ultimately a billion-plus Office users.

Azure is also seeing impressive usage momentum. Right now, more than 5 million organizations are represented in Azure Active Directory with more than 425 million identities. Storage is also a strong indicator of consumption and now we have 50 trillion objects stored in Azure, a three times growth year-over-year in storage transactions, more than 5 trillion in March alone. Azure websites are growing with nearly half a million sites hosted.

Beyond strong usage of our existing services, we are excited by the customer response to our expanding portfolio of new cloud offerings. In particular, Enterprise Mobility Suite is growing, and we now have more than 13,000 enterprise customers using EMS.

As customer adoption and usage in the cloud increases, more developers are choosing Azure for their application. Nearly 3 million developers are signed up for Visual Studio online, up two times year-over-year. To foster developer innovation, we launched Azure Apps Service this quarter. It offers a powerful set of development tools for creating web and mobile app backends for any platform or device, while enabling integration with other applications, including Office 365, Dynamics, Salesforce, Facebook, Twitter, SAP, Oracle, CIBIL, and many more.

We also delivered new Azure computance sequence this quarter with more memory and storage than any other public cloud provider, attracting more mission-critical workloads to the cloud. We improved our big data capabilities with support for the latest version of Hadoop and Linux in HDInsight, and improved disaster recovery with Azure Site Recovery and Backup.

We're seeing significant customer interest and adoption in Azure machine learning and Azure stream analytics, in particular for IOT scenarios. In a world where every company has the opportunity to become a software company, a diverse set of companies like ThyssenKrupp, Toyota, Rockwell, Ford, Fujitsu, and Millay are engaging with us in their transformation.

Further, our Dynamics also has traction in the enterprise. It is now nearly a $2 billion business. Dynamic CRM online enterprise paid seats more than doubled year-over-year, and we more than doubled enterprise seats sold this quarter for ERP.

We also announced a wave of innovation in Microsoft Dynamics CRM this quarter with new social, mobile, and analytics capabilities for business process transformation, including seamless integration of Dynamic CRM with Office 365. While our commercial cloud business is expanding dramatically, we are also seeing strong growth in our consumer cloud services. Office 365 consumer added an average of 1 million new customers per month, and we now have more than 12 million subscribers, an increase of 35% over the prior quarter.

We are clearly taking Office everywhere. Core to our Office -- core to our mobile-first strategy is to ensure that our service endpoints are on every mobile device, and to that end, we have seen continued momentum with more than 100 million downloads of Office on iPhones, iPads, and Android tablets. With the release of Outlook on iOS and Android this quarter, our bids to our OneDrive application, and a preview of the forthcoming Office for Mac, we are making Office available to even more users on more devices.

Bing achieved a significant milestone this quarter, when US search share topped 20% and search advertising revenue grew 21%. Search is key to productivity and work and life, and it is a huge opportunity for Microsoft as we continue to innovate with Bing across our application and platforms. On top of that, I'm pleased with our renewed partnership with Yahoo and our combined ability to compete more effectively in the search marketplace.

Our investments and innovation and user experience in Xbox LIVE are paying off. Xbox LIVE users grew 18% year-over-year, helping drive increased Xbox LIVE usage growth by 30%. When I step back and look at Office 365, Bing search, and Xbox LIVE collectively, I see real usage growth and monetization of our consumer services all up.

Now let's talk about Windows. To start, our Windows revenue from business customers is stabilizing, post the XP Refresh anniversary, coming back in line to historical levels. We're also transforming the consumer Windows business to adapt to the changing market dynamics, including lower price point devices. This quarter, while non-pro revenue declined, activations were up.

Importantly, we are now at a place where we can start to see early signs of how usage increases in services like search and gaming can drive new monetization opportunities over the lifetime of a Windows consumer device. Windows is a tremendous asset for Microsoft, with more than 1.5 billion users. This means every day hundreds of millions of people are using Windows and Windows applications. In fact, more than 16 million unique apps are used on a monthly basis from PCs running Windows 7 and later.

We're focused on making Windows 10 the most loved version of Windows ever, perhaps most importantly, last quarter I talked about how Windows 10 will be a service across an array of devices and will usher in a new era of more personal computing. An era where the mobility of the experience, not the device, is paramount. We look forward to sharing a lot more about Windows 10 at Build next week.

In our device portfolio, service adoption continues across enterprise and consumer customers, with 44% revenue growth year-over-year. And 64% of Surface Pro 3 users use OneNote, nine times that of any other touch laptop. This shows how great hardware innovation influences customer experience and usage. We are looking forward to Surface 3 availability next month, a device that has received positive reviews for being a superior, versatile device at a lower price point.

We continue to demonstrate momentum in the value smartphone segment of the phone market, driving 18% growth in Lumia volumes this quarter. However, we need to take further action to reduce our costs across devices as we execute on our Windows 10 first party hardware plans.

I'm excited that next week I'll be able to talk much more extensively about our ambitions and the opportunity ahead to two important audiences -- developers at Build and our investor community at the financial analyst briefing in San Francisco.

Before I turn it over to Amy, I want to close by reflecting on Microsoft's transformation to a Company that will thrive and help our customers thrive in a mobile-first, cloud-first world. This is a new world with new growth. It's a world that requires fundamental transformation in products, business models, and delivery models across Microsoft.

In 2008, we started our transformation by taking an iconic franchise, Office, to the cloud. We took the next big step forwards five years ago when we launched Azure, and another step forward with the recent announcement of Windows 10 as a service.

Microsoft's overall transformation isn't about one-for-one shift. It is about delivering value to more customers and unlocking new growth opportunities. To do this, we will continue to push forward with big ambitions and persistence, while delivering solid performance.

With that, I'll hand it over to Amy to talk about this quarter's results in greater detail, and I look forward to rejoining you after to answer questions. Thank you.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased with our execution in the third quarter.

In our commercial business, we continue to see healthy underlying fundamentals with strong renewal of volume licensed annuity contracts, a mix shift to cloud offerings, and solid bookings. Importantly, you can see the progress we are making in the execution of our cloud strategy as the percentage of our revenue from annuity contracts and our commercial business continues to rise. As Satya highlighted, we also saw momentum in strategic businesses we've been investing in, such as Bing, Xbox LIVE, and Surface, which have a key role in our plans to further monetize Windows devices.

Like most multinational companies, the strengthening of the US dollar has had a significant impact in our reported results. Accordingly, when applicable, I will give growth rates in both GAAP and constant currency to help you better understand the underlying business demand.

Revenue was $21.7 billion, up 6%, and 9% in constant currency. Gross margin grew 1%, and 4% in constant currency. We improved gross margin percentage year-over-year in each of our segments again this quarter, reflecting our ongoing focus on operational excellence.

Operating income declined 5%, adjusting for both integration and restructuring expense of $190 million, as well as the negative $87 million impact from FX, operating income declined 1%. Earnings per share was $0.61, which includes a $0.02 negative impact from FX, and $0.01 of integration and restructuring expense.

As a reminder, FX movements first impact our bookings growth and unearned revenue on the balance sheet. Each quarter, our contracted, not billed balance is adjusted to reflect current FX rates.

When FX rates move rapidly, as they have in the last six months, bookings growth can be significantly impacted. This was the case again this quarter, as bookings grew 2%. However, when measured on a constant currency basis, bookings grew 9%.

Unearned revenue was up 4% year-over-year to $20.2 billion, and 7% in constant currency. Total unearned revenue was slightly below expectations, driven primarily by a stronger than expected mix of sales that were recognized in the current period.

From a geographic perspective, the US outperformed our expectations. This relative strength in the US resulted in roughly 1 point less of constant currency impact than we expected in our commercial business. China, Russia, and Japan were generally in line with our expectations.

I want to touch briefly on what we are seeing in Japan, given that it is our second largest market from a revenue perspective. Revenue was down $550 million, which is nearly 4 points of growth for the whole Company. With high office attached PCs, revenue is particularly sensitive to the underlying PC market dynamics. Q3 was the toughest comparable, due to both XP end of support and the VAT increase which went into effect last April 1. The impact is most evident in our DNC and commercial licensing segments.

The macroeconomic climate remains challenging as well in Japan. We don't expect it to change in the short term. With that backdrop, I will now move to a detailed discussion of our results.

Starting with Windows. Q3 last year was the peak of the XP Refresh cycle, evidenced by Windows Pro revenue growth of 19%. This growth significantly outpaced the underlying PC market, driven by higher attach at Pro, particularly with large enterprise customers in developed markets. This quarter, Pro revenue declined by 19%. It is essentially flat to the Q3 FY13 levels, as both business PCs and Pro mix in that segment returned to pre-XP Refresh levels.

For Windows non-Pro, as we talked about last quarter, inventory in the channel was higher than normal. This quarter, activations grew, and we exited Q3 with channel inventories at more normal levels. The channel inventory reduction was the main driver of our Windows non-Pro revenue decline.

We continued to see a mixed shift of opening price point PCs, which impacted license mix and aggregate ASP. However, it was significantly less than the impact in Q2 when holiday sales favored a lower price point PC's.

Office consumer revenue and DNC licensing was down 41% this quarter, due primarily to the shift of purchasing toward Office 365 consumer, where we now have 12.4 million subscribers. This transition to Office 365 accounted for 27 points of that decline, and the impact of Japan's PC market, the remaining 14 points. Excluding Japan, we grew our combined consumer Office licenses by 10%.

Revenue in our device and consumer other segment grew 25% and 28% in constant currency, exceeding our expectations. Many of our growth efforts are represented in this segment and we made terrific progress this quarter across Office 365, Bing and Xbox LIVE transactions. Gross margin expanded again, benefiting from the increased scale in our services. Inclusive of the estimated impact of the Yahoo agreement reached last week, we remain confident in our goal of Bing profitability in FY16.

Moving to hardware. Revenue from Xbox consoles declined, largely due to a mixed shift of Xbox One consoles to lower ASP SKUs, as well as the impact of launch supply from a year ago. With Surface, we saw 53% constant currency revenue growth, driven by strong retail sales and attach of accessories. On phones, we sold 8.6 million Lumia devices and have gained share in key markets, such as the UK and Germany, over the course of the year.

Gross margin declined sequentially, driven by lower Q3 revenue and approximately $60 million of negative impact from foreign currency relative to Q2 FX rates. We've made significant progress in reducing the operating expense base in the phone business. Moving from an annualized rate of $4.5 billion at acquisition to a run rate under $2.5 billion. That said, the changing mix of our portfolio to the value segment and the significant negative headwind from FX will impact our ability to reach operational breakeven in FY16.

In response, we have in Q3 and will continue in Q4 to aggressively focus on our operating cost base by pursuing efficiencies in both COGS and operating expenses. We will focus those efforts across our entire first party device portfolio, even while we expand into new form factors such as HoloLens and Surface Hub.

Now, moving to our commercial results, where revenue grew 5%, or 7% in constant currency. Commercial bookings declined 1% on a reported basis, but grew 10% in constant currency. The underlying health of the business remains very strong, despite the negative impact from specific GeoS and prior-year XP comparables.

The transition of our customers to cloud and subscription annuity services is a critical element of our business transformation. To provide ongoing transparency into our progress, we've added a new KPI, commercial annuity mix. This quarter, 82% of our commercial revenue came from annuity revenue streams, which is up five points from last year.

While quarter-to-quarter, the mix can vary with uneven growth rates we've seen in transactional licensing, before and after the XP Refresh cycle. The overall trend clearly reflects the meaningful progress that we've made.

Office commercial products and services declined to 2%, but grew 1% in constant currency. Japan was a three point drag. We successfully renewed a large volume of annuity contract explorations in Q3 at healthy levels in line with historical rates. And we continue to see a strong shift from traditional licensing to Office 365 across our business customers. In each of the last three quarters, we've added more Office 365 seats than transactional licenses with SMB customers.

Server products and services continue to exhibit strong momentum, with revenue growth of 12%, and 16% in constant currency. Our portfolio is well-positioned to meet the needs of our customers for their private, public, and hybrid cloud solutions. Adoption of our premium products remains strong, and revenue grew 25% across our premium offerings for SQL, Systems Center, and Windows Server.

Overall, revenue from our commercial cloud services more than doubled again this quarter. Enterprise penetration is accelerating with over half of all agreements signed during the quarter, including cloud services. Within Office 365, premium workloads now make up more than 50% of the install base, and we are seeing strong attach of our Enterprise Mobility Solutions to Office 365. Azure usage grew rapidly this quarter and Dynamics CRM online benefited from strong customer growth.

Moving now to operating expenses, which were favorable to our guidance, driven by decisions that we made during the quarter to reduce spending and to continue to reallocate resources to accelerate growth in key areas. For instance, in markets where we are facing challenges, we reduced our sales and marketing expend to reflect the current environment. And as a mentioned earlier in my comment on the phone business, we took further actions to lower our cost base.

Across the Company, we continue to prioritize, reallocate our spend into activities with the highest impact. The result was that operating expenses grew 4% for the Company.

Normalizing for the approximately $300 million year-over-year benefit from FX, and the addition of $570 million related to phone, operating expenses, grew just 1%. Our effective tax rate was 24%, which is five points higher than last year. The increase is primarily driven by the inclusion of our phone results and our changing geographic mix.

We returned $7.5 billion to shareholders this quarter, which is an increase of $3 billion from Q2. This change is consistent with our objective to increase capital return shareholders with a focus on value.

With that overview of the current quarter let me now turn the to the outlook for the fourth quarter. I'll start with a few overall comments for additional context. The guidance that we are providing is based on current FX rates. Should actual rates differ, they will be reflected in the financial results.

As a reminder, in our annuity businesses the FX impact is first reflected in our unearned revenue, as it is based on rates when the contract is billed. Then into the P&L at the same rate as the revenue is recognized generally over the next year.

In Q4, unearned revenue will reflect three quarters of billing with the stronger US dollar, which will negatively impact year-over-year comparables. Likewise, we will be recognizing a higher percentage of revenue from periods with a stronger US dollar in both the recently completed Q3 and also the prior-year comparison.

In total, we expect FX will impact revenue growth by approximately four points in Q4 with the majority of that impact in our commercial segments. While XP related comparables remain top of for Q4 we're starting to anniversary the XP benefits from last year. Finally, from a geographic perspective, we expect the year-over-year declines in Japan to continue.

With that additional context, I will now move to more specific items, starting with devices and consumer. In licensing in Q4 last year, we recognized $382 million of revenue related to the end of the commercial agreement with Nokia, which will impact year-over-year growth trends. For this Q4, we expect revenue to be $3.2 billion to $3.4 billion. This range reflects the anniversary of XP, the impact of the Japanese economy, and is anticipated drawdown of inventories in the PC ecosystem ahead of the release of Windows 10 this summer.

Within consumer Office, we expect similar trends to Q3, including the continued transition to Office 365 subscriptions. In computing and gaming hardware, with the addition of Surface 3, we expect revenues to be $1.5 billion to $1.6 billion. In the phone hardware we expect revenue to the $1.3 billion to $1.4 billion, with continued momentum in value smartphones and anticipated decline in non-Lumia phones. Gross margins will reflect similar dynamics to Q3.

In devices and consumer other, we expect revenue to be $2.1 billion to $2.2 billion with continued growth in Bing, Office 365, and Xbox LIVE transactions. In commercial licensing, we expect revenue of $10.5 billion to $10.6 billion, with a continuing shift to annuity. This range reflects roughly 4 points of negative impact from FX, in addition to the factors I discussed earlier.

In commercial other, we expect momentum to continue in our commercial cloud with revenue of $3.0 billion to $3.1 billion. In corporate, we don't expect any revenue impact.

We expect COGS to be $7.2 billion to $7.4 billion, with variability being driven by both hardware segments. We expect operating expenses to be $8.4 billion to $8.5 billion, and this range implies that our full year operating expenses will be roughly $2 billion below our initial guidance for the year, while still investing in key growth opportunities across R&D and sales. We have benefited from FX, but the biggest driver has been our ongoing cost discipline and prioritization effort.

In Q4, we expect to incur $100 million integration expenses, and separately another $100 million in restructuring expenses. As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividends and interest income offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. Given the current FX environment, we expect our net cost of hedging to increase and other income and expense to be negative $200 million. We expect our Q4 tax rate to be 22% to 24%.

In Q4, we expect cutbacks to sequentially increase in support of our growing cloud business. We expect unearned revenue will grow sequentially, in line with historical seasonality excluding the foreign currency impact.

In closing, as you heard from Satya, we are making progress in our strategic goals and we are seeing our focused investments land in differentiated products, customer usage, and sales results. Customers are seeing and embracing our innovation, leading to increased usage of our cloud services, and a transition toward subscription and multiyear purchasing.

We continue to invest aggressively to capture opportunities where we see competitive advantages, while also becoming or efficient to accelerate our pace of innovation. We encourage you next week to watch the webcast of keynotes from our Build Developer Conference. We will share more of the innovation happening with Windows 10 and our cloud services.

We will also host the financial analyst briefing where Satya, Kevin Turner, and I will discuss how the Company's transformation provides unique growth opportunities that drive increased lifetime customer value across our core businesses. We look forward to sharing that progress with you.

With that, let me turn it back over to Chris for Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We will now move to Q&A.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions)

The first question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: You had great momentum in the cloud. I'm curious if you could talk about the positioning both in on-prem and [COD] environments and also weave in what you're seeing with Azure.

SATYA NADELLA: Sure. Thanks for the question. Overall when I think about the Microsoft cloud, it's really the combination of Office 365, Dynamics, as well as Azure. We think about our capital allocation that way, we think about utilization, and product architecture, and customer value, and how uniquely we can bring these three assets together to serve our customers well. That's the momentum you see, and I talked about the run rate, the usage metrics and there is really increasing intensity of usage amongst organizational customers in our commercial cloud.

One of the other things that's also a huge benefit for us is because our public cloud runs on our software asset, our software asset gets packaged up as service. In fact, I think about servers as the edge of our cloud. So the unique capability we now have in Windows servers, SQL Server, is becoming that much more competitive because we are running a public cloud in it and that is what anyone deploying their own private cloud expects to have.

So, you see there are two sides, or benefits and two sides for us. One is in our cloud momentum, which itself is a combination of SaaS applications, PaaS, and IaaS, which I believe is unique in the marketplace, as well as the software itself that is packaged up into our private cloud offering, be it Windows Server or SQL Server, and they are becoming increasingly competitive in the enterprise and data center additions. So that's what you see in our commercial results, both on the licensing side as well as on the cloud side. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Next question comes from the line of Philip Winslow with Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congratulations on a great quarter. I wanted to focus on Office 365. Several of those metrics really jumped out to us. It seems like overall revenue between your commercial and BMT for Office 365 is up over 100%. If you look at the consumer and user count, it was up pretty huge just quarter to quarter there.

The question is both Satya and Amy. Satya, when you think about the positioning and where we are in the adoption lifecycle of Office 365 on the consumer side, and the SMB and enterprise, where are we in terms of the inflection point there? Amy, how should we think about going forward in terms of the guidance that you gave, how we should think about the financial implications of where we are in that transition from on premise to Office 365?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start. Amy, you can take it from there. Overall, I would say there's a secular movement that's happening in particular with Office 365 and quite frankly it's happening across the entire product portfolio of Microsoft, which is more to what I would describe as annuity relationship as well as subscription relationships, because those are the long-term contracts of relationships we want to have with all customers be it consumer, be it small business, or large customers. In all the years I've been at Microsoft, it was always our dream to be able to sell more of the sophisticated capabilities of Office to individual consumers as well as small businesses. It was hard to do in the previous generation because of the server infrastructure and sophistication of IT required.

Whereas now with the cloud, for the first time, we now can serve both individuals as well as small businesses with the same kind of sophistication that in the past was exclusively available for the large enterprises. So that's what you see when we see a subscription growth in consumer, we see subscription growth in small business. These are folks who never bought a server from us. So, that's what we are seeing is increasing what I would call annuity relationship and subscription relationship with all classes of customers and it's a new penetration. It's not even a one-for-one replacement.

Even for the enterprise customer, their consumption is going up. They may have consumed one or two workloads, but now they have the opportunity to consume the entirety of the portfolio and not just that. If you look at the products in Office 365 that we have, take eDiscovery, it's a complete new space for us where we are able to do things in security, eDiscovery, and enterprise management that we didn't even do for the top end of the enterprise in the server side. That's what we are seeing.

AMY HOOD: Phil, on the math that sits behind that, it's good timing. Next week at the financial analyst briefing, I will have a lot more time to explain the actual lifetime value of each of these customer segments, especially in Office 365. But I think in consumer, it may be the easiest want to talk about. We talked about license growth of 10% when you correct for Japan.

Our ability to quickly, I think, move our customer base through stronger execution, both direct, through retail, and having our channel execute well and partner with us on this transition, I do think we've made a lot of progress. Maybe more importantly, we continue to innovate in the product and deliver value to the end-user which is really what matters. So, I think we'll be able to show the progress we've made over every quarter and give you some goals going forward. I look forward to having the chance to spend more time on that in detail.

SMB looks very similar in some ways. They purchase similarly; it was bought with a PC, it was bought one time, it was infrequent with an inability, as Satya said, to add workloads. Those are some of the bigger transitions you've seen for us in terms of being able to increase the value. So, hopefully we'll be able to give you more details on that next week.

PHILIP WINSLOW: I've been waiting for those details for years. I appreciate that. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Phil. Next?

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Very nice quarter. One of the highlights of the past year has definitely been the expense control, and I guess, a normalized OpEx growth of just 1% of the quarter, continues to be very impressive. How should investors, or how should we think about the sustainability of that expense control? How long can you keep investing for these growth initiatives like cloud, yet keep the overall OpEx growth rate so low on a go forward basis?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and then I will have Amy add. Overall, the core of how I wanted to approach expenses is to make sure that we are not limited in our ability to invest in categories where we have unique things to contribute. So, we're going to do that, though, with great discipline. And that's what I think you've seen us do over the course of the last year and will continue to exhibit that.

At the same time, we will not shrink away from our ability to go put investment, be it in sales, marketing, or product R&D when we clearly have unique things in secular categories of growth and that's something that we have the capability of doing. We want to be able to do that in a disciplined way.

AMY HOOD: And I would just add, I generally think about two key items that we've been able to think about across the leadership team. First, I think we've exhibited an increasing ability over the course of the year to reallocate during the year, both at the organization level and at the team level, to make sure our dollars are going to the highest ROI things.

Secondly, I think it's a general belief held at the highest levels of the Company that operating efficiency increases our ability to be responsive, both to the needs of the customers as well as to innovate faster inside this place, and I think when you take those two things along with what Satya said, being able to balance discipline, focus, and execution for us, I think we feel very good about the progress we've made.

PHILIP WINSLOW: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Next, operator.

OPERATOR: Next -- Rick Sherlund with Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Satya, you mentioned a year ago that we are going to see a next generation of personal productivity software. I wonder if you could update us on what that means and when we might see that as just an extension of Office 365 or how do we monetize those products and when will we hear more about them?

And Amy, we didn't see any tech guarantees in the quarter for the upcoming Windows 10 launch, and we also haven't heard anything more about changes in accounting for Windows 10 given that there is going to be a big undelivered element there. Is that something we should expect to hear more about next week?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start. Thanks, Rick. When I think about even just my own day-to-day usage of Office, even in the last year, it's gone through a drastic amount of change. Of course, I use Word, PowerPoint, Excel, Outlook on a daily basis, but if I think about all the tools I'm using, which is all a part of Office 365, today on a daily basis and multiple times a day, I start my day, as I've talked about in many conferences, with Delve, which is a tool I love, which is in fact something that is uniquely possible because of the shift to Office 365 where we can take organizational data and break through all the boundaries of [organs] and silos inside an organization and have people discover information. It's the richest way for me to visualize what is happening at Microsoft in real-time. That newsfeed to me is the lifeblood of Microsoft.

I use Power BI, one of the things we talked a lot about is usage. In fact, one of the cultural changes inside the Company is everyone, from the frontline engineer to the frontline sales person, is responsible for usage and given that, we want to have these leading indicators showing up in our dashboard, not as static report and Power BI is this rich canvas for us to one, visualize data as well as ask natural language questions. I look at my own usage of OneNote in Surface, that's gone through a sea change, both because of the hardware innovation, innovation in Windows, innovation in Office.

I look at something like Sway, which I'm pretty excited about because basically we are taking the concept of what is an interactive document and a website, and bringing it all together into the Sway documents, if you will, and we are excited about what that could mean in customer service, marketing, or for school reports.

So, we are well into it. It's not going to be waiting for some future date to release anything that is new, but we are well on our way with all of these tools, and they're available today and of course we will be iterating continuously.

AMY HOOD: Rick, on your other two questions specific to the tech guarantee that you would think about this time of year, due to the specific nature of the offer we have on Windows 10, there won't be a tech guarantee as you think about it for this upgrade cycle. There's disclosure, in fact, in our revenue recognition section in the 10-Q that talks about that specifically. When we talk about the accounting for Windows 10, I will touch on that next week. But as we get closer to the launch, we'll go into more specifics.

SATYA NADELLA: I'm so excited about the space and I don't want to miss this one other scenario which is Cortana, that is perhaps the thing that's going to change personal productivity the most, especially with Windows 10 and how Cortana comes to Windows, both to the browser as well as to the start. I think it completely changes what personal productivity software means from a day-to-day experience as well.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Next -- Mark Moerdler with Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Congrats on the quarter. Thank you for taking my question. If Windows OEM Pro has now stabilized, excluding the bump we saw from XP Refresh, and volume licensing, at least in constant currency, is stable growing, should we figure that we've now started to turn the corner on commercial Windows revenue? In addition, where do you think we are on the consumer side on the non-OEM Pro? Is that still going to continue to shrink for a bit?

AMY HOOD: Let me take that and Satya, you can add at the end if you want. I think, Mark, you are reading it correctly. We've actually had our annuity volume licensing business, as you know, has been showing growth and stability for a while. As we talked about, Pro is back to the pre-XP levels. While you can see some fluctuation, I think this has been a very stable business for us for a long period of time when you take out that XP bump from last year.

Talking about consumer, I think, frankly, Satya and I both reflected a bit on it in our comments. We do expect to see some additional inventory drawdown in front of a launch, and that's not unusual, prior to a launch cycle. That'll clearly impact our revenue in the quarter. But I think as I look to 2016, I'm excited about the designs we've seen, and I'm excited about the products that are possible with Windows 10. And I think we feel good and are looking forward to sharing some of that excitement next week.

SATYA NADELLA: One thing I would also add is there is actually a much more fundamental transformation happening even with how we think about Windows and its delivery, and we'll talk more about this at the financial analyst briefing next week, because increasingly I think about the lifetime value we can deliver to the user of a Windows device, be it in consumer or even in the enterprise. And if you think about when we say Windows is a service, it is actually a pretty profound construct which involves us being able to not only think about what shifts with OEMs, but how do we on a continuous basis if it is the consumer we have things now in the store, we have subscriptions, we have gaming, and when it comes to the enterprise there is management, security, servicing, which is all unique value. So there's going to be an increasing emphasis in the concept of lifetime value that we can deliver to customers.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect.

OPERATOR: Next -- John DiFucci with Jefferies.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks. It sounds like cloud Azure represents an opportunity to transition existing customers to a cloud model, but also to expand your customer base or penetrate -- penetration into your current customer base with -- incremental business is what I'm talking about. I think that most of Office 365, because most people were already on Office, represents transitions from the license model. But so far, and I know it's still early, but so far, what about the rest? Can you give us an idea of how much of this is new business and how much of this is transition business?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and you can add. I think you have to sort of look at all the use cases. In fact, as I said a lot of the Azure use case, I think you referenced this, has been non-zero sum, because people started building their mobile backend, web backend, using big data and not the workloads we have. I look at everyday usage growth. Even if they are creating a web workload, it is a different type of web backend in a mobile backend, and the same thing with advanced analytics. I even look at the growth of virtual machine instances on Azure.

We not only see Windows server, obviously, but we see 20%-plus of Linux growth. So that's again non-zero sum. There is a significant traction we have in terms of moving beyond just one-for-one shift of a workload that traditionally ran on a server to our Azure cloud. In fact, if anything the majority what we're seeing is new. Even in Office 365, it's not just one-for-one share. Of course, if you are using a large enterprise exchange and you move to Office 365, you moved to using exchange online and the same thing is true for SharePoint.

But again take all the other things I described, Power BI, Delve, and the list goes on, take eDiscovery -- even for the largest of enterprise, these are things that had low penetration and low deployment, and we are seeing an increasing usage of it. Same thing with our Dynamics business. EMS. It's completely a new category. We never had that kind of a management footprint. We now have the ability to have one control plane for IT for all the devices, identity management, device management, data protection; that's a new workload.

So, that's what we are seeing. We definitely are seeing one-for-one migration for the opportunity in every one of the offerings from Office 365 to Dynamics to Azure has a non-zero sum component to it.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thanks. I want to be clear because you said something -- other than Office 365, did you say the majority of the cloud business is new business? Again, I know it can't be -- maybe you know exactly what it is, but I'm sure some of it is somewhat cloudy -- no pun intended -- or vague. Do you think most it at this point is new business? Is that what I heard you say?

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, also, it comes in interesting ways. One thing -- IT, as you know, it's not about replacing what you have, it's always augmenting what you have. A classic scenario would be take a SQL database application and bring it to the cloud, and then build a new mobile backend using the same data. So, reuse of code, reuse of data. You would use some amount of IaaS infrastructure and then PaaS consumption. That's one of the very typical enterprise solutions you will see.

In fact, our own IT systems, take what we've done with our HR and our financial systems and some of those things, as they moved to the cloud, we bring some existing and then add to it.

AMY HOOD: John, to your specific question, you're right -- a lot of the Azure is new. Especially our Dynamics business. CRM online and some of the work we've done across AX is certainly all new. And the lower down in the segment of Office you get, the more new it is. That's the way to think about it.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Next -- Walter Pritchard from Citi. Please proceed.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: A follow-up to the question John had on Azure. Amazon released their profitability for the first time on AWS and it was higher than most people were expecting. I'm wondering how we should think about your mix of business in Azure, you're running Linux, you're running a lot of services based on open source software, you're also running some of your own IP there. How should we think about where your margins are today and should we think of Amazon's AWS margins as a good benchmark for where you could be at scale they are at today?

SATYA NADELLA: First of all, I don't think of the comparison between Azure and AWS is the true north for me. I think about the Microsoft cloud, because even the way we do capital, the way we measure utilization, is all with the complete unit, which is, of course, all of Office 365 runs on Azure. Azure AD powers all of our cloud, so it's really its entirety that we think of as our unique value.

That means we have SaaS, which is a huge component between 365 and dynamics, PaaS which is a huge component of Azure itself. We see many customers who use our PaaS services and even AWS. For example, you can in fact do a single sign-on using EMS and Azure AD in Azure and use your resources on AWS. Then, of course, we have our IaaS business. That's how we think about it. Then it is reflected even in our margins.

We look at the cloud margins, they will have revenue quality which is very different that is a combination of PaaS, IaaS, and SaaS, and that's how we want to make sure we make progress, because that is where both product value which is unique to us, and also the quality of revenue that is unique to us. But one other thing -- my worldview is not that all compute storage networks just go to one place. That's why I think about servers as the edge of the cloud and as I said there's a huge software asset in there, which is becoming increasingly competitive.

Of course, we don't count that in our run rate, when we talk about the $6 billion-plus run rate, that's pure public cloud number and that's fantastic to see and we want to measure it that way. But, quite frankly if you looked at what is broadly happening in the cloud transition, we are participating in both the private hybrid cloud as well as the public cloud.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Amy, on OpEx, you have -- I guess not necessarily you, but the Company generally at this time has given some color into the next fiscal year's OpEx. Is that something we should expect at the Build event with your analyst meeting next week? I'm sure you're not going to give us today here, but I wanted to figure out the expectations around when I should hear about that.

AMY HOOD: We will continue to talk generally about it. I don't expect to get a specific guidance on FY16 next week.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Next -- Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Two questions, one was related to the success of the sub-$250 machines that you guys and the market have been seeing. What geos have seen the best uptake for those so far? And just if there is a little bit more color you could share about the drivers of the commercial licensing business. I recognize, obviously, that you guys just give guidance for Q4. But as we look out over the next year or two, what are the big puts and takes, in particular, maybe, on the server and tool side that we need to think about?

SATYA NADELLA: I'll start. I think as far as the low-cost devices, it's pretty broad, I think. We think of the US itself being, in fact, a big driver of some of the growth on the consumer side. We're also obviously stimulated there so we can be much more effective even in the educational markets worldwide. And Amy can add to that, if we have any more detail on it.

When it comes to our commercial licensing and servers, it's the same trend, Heather, which is the big shift that's happening is our enterprise and data center products being Windows Servers, System Center, SQL Server are more competitive. It's the same thing I would say at least in the last couple of years clearly have played out. There's clearly -- in fact, as our products are becoming competitive there has been a mix shift. People have bought from us previously just standard editions, are able to now look at our enterprise editions, and that is what is playing out.

There's definitely some pricing action we were able to take, mostly because we were able to deliver the incremental value. Even with all the pricing action we took, we from a total cost of ownership or just raw pricing perspective, are very competitive versus what is available in the market. So, that's what we see. So these cycles, some of the pricing actions were anniversary out, but the overall thing that I'm focused on is how can we continue to run our software asset ourselves in public cloud and translate that into our servers and really paint this vision and make it a reality of hybrid computing and drive the secular growth of that.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Heather.

CHRIS SUH: One more question.

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from the line of Mark Murphy with JPMorgan.

MARK MURPHY, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. Satya, I'm wondering what inning you think we are in, in terms of building out the next generation data centers that you'll need to support the commercial cloud. For example, do you think you've built out data center capacity to support the commercial cloud business all the way to a $10 billion run rate or a $20 billion run rate? If there's any way you can help us to try to gauge how much overhead you have in the capacity, and perhaps what type of data center footprint you envision a few years down the road?

SATYA NADELLA: In fact, one of the big changes that has happened I would say in the last couple of years, and I will have Amy even detail out, is the way that we are going about everything from the very long lead things like actual data center locations and buildouts to the procurement of individual machines and essentially the work in progress inventory of that. We have driven significant process improvement to essentially make it as efficient as one can make it and that is a continuous process for us.

So, when I think about even the capital allocation per quarter, we carefully look at what is our current utilization forecast and what our demand forecast is. And we now have the ability to be much more dynamic. Surely, there are some things which are long lead, like data center locations but you don't need to build out data centers much before they are really being utilized.

So we have a very good process and that is a place where quite frankly a lot of the proprietary advantage of someone who is an at scale public cloud provider, not just with one application, and this is where the huge distinction is. After all, we did run large scale consumer services ourselves, between Xbox LIVE and Bing, but the business of supporting a highly geo-distributed enterprise cloud business is very different than just running in one mass scale public cloud service and we've learned a lot with what is our workload diversity as well as our geodiversity, and our supply chain management is optimized for it.

AMY HOOD: I would add, Mark, this is a place as Satya just said, we have made a lot of progress in being data driven and this is down to a monthly review, by workload, by property, by geo. This is a place where I feel that we are in a terrific position, frankly, to respond to data sovereignty demands, changes politically, and our ability to execute that to provide what our customers demand, in terms of security and manageability and location. This is something that we care a lot about.

MARK MURPHY: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Mark. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's call. We encourage you to tune into Build, our annual developer conference, which will be webcast live at www.buildwindows.com, as well as our financial analyst briefing on Wednesday, April 29, which will be webcast live on our investor relations website. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. Thank you for joining us and talk to you soon.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150426eb4n000gu
  


 HD
 Q2  2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
9,805 words
   PD
26 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Second-Quarter Fiscal Year 2015 Microsoft Corporation Earnings Conference Call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. A brief question-and-answer session will follow the formal presentation.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded.

I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today.

On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. On our website, Microsoft.com/investor, we have posted our press release and a slide deck that provides a summary of our results this quarter.

Unless otherwise specified, all growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year. Additionally, any mention of operating expense refers to segment operating expenses as defined in the footnote of our 10-Q, and includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative; but excludes integration and restructuring charges.

We will post the prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until January 26, 2016.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

With that, I will turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone.

Today I will focus my top-line thoughts on our progress this quarter, and the progress we are making in transforming our Business. This quarter we reached $26.5 billion in revenue, with an operating income of $7.8 billion. This quarter's results show the product and business transformation underway at Microsoft. We saw success in a number of our strategic areas, including cloud adoption, redefining and revitalizing the Windows ecosystem, and improving economics in our hardware portfolio.

We also saw some challenges this quarter. As expected, the one-time benefit of Windows XP end-of-life PC refresh cycle has now tailed off. Additionally, we ran into unexpected issues in select geographies. Where there are execution issues, we will address them. Where there are macroeconomic challenges, we will weather them. With that in mind, I will walk you through the quarter.

Let's start with our cloud business, an area where we are extending our leadership position, and accelerating our innovation. In commercial cloud, we saw continued customer and revenue growth across a growing footprint of cloud services: Office 365, Azure, Enterprise Mobility Suite, and Dynamic CRM online. In fact, this quarter is the sixth consecutive quarter of triple-digit revenue growth in commercial cloud, and we are now at a run rate of $5.5 billion. Azure services continue to go in appeal to enterprise IT and developers, with rapid improvements across hybrid services, premium cloud storage, and virtual machine offerings, enhanced data and data analytics offerings.

Microsoft Enterprise Mobility Suite is one key area of product innovation that I would like to highlight, given the growth and the uniqueness of this offering. Microsoft offers a comprehensive solution for all devices that brings together mobile device management, mobile application management, hybrid identity management, and data protection into one unified offering through EMS.

Office 365 now includes new application experiences on all phones and tablets for mobile productivity. Further, we have released completely new scenarios. This includes Office Sway for visualizing and sharing ideas, Delve to help search and discover content, Office 365 Groups to make it easier to collaborate, Office 365 Video for secure media streaming for businesses. Finally, we continually reinvest in enterprise value by integrating MDM and Enterprise Mobility Suite into Office 365, new encryption technologies, compliance certification, and new e-discovery capabilities in Exchange.

In Dynamic CRM online, we added 53 markets this quarter, bringing us to 130 markets around the world. We are bringing together CRM with Cortana, Yammer, Power BI and Skype to add unique value to customers.

We are expanding our capabilities in the cloud through five new acquisitions. Last week we announced an agreement to purchase Revolution Analytics, the leading provider of statistical computing and predictive analytics, which will enable our customers to unlock big data insights. We bought HockeyApp, a leading mobile app testing and development service to enhance Azure services for mobile developers. Our acquisition of Arvato accelerates our ability to give customers unique security capabilities by tapping into behavioral intelligence around identity and excess spanning on-premise and the cloud.

We are bringing on new capabilities in machine learning as applied to e-discovery and other enterprise compliance processes with the acquisition of Equivio. We also welcomed Acompli, a provider of innovative mobile e-mail applications for iOS and Android. The common theme across all these acquisitions is advanced data analytics and machine learning-driven capabilities that improve with more customer adoption and usage of the cloud.

We are also making progress in our consumer cloud services. Office 365 Home and Personal revenue grew nearly 150% year over year, as we added 2.1 million net new subscribers since last quarter. Bing US search share continues to grow, as does search revenue, with 23% growth this quarter. I will talk about our progress in Xbox Live later in my comments.

Now let's turn to Windows. To start, the overall Windows ecosystem is driving more innovation. Over the holiday season and at CES, our partners showcased a diverse lineup of Windows devices, including more premium device choices than ever. Last spring, we made a strategic decision to introduce new Windows pricing programs to drive unit growth in opening-price-point PCs, as well as tablets, and this quarter we saw year-over-year growth.

Also, businesses continue to value Windows. We are seeing healthy demand for Windows Pro, even though we face challenging prior-year comparables in Q2, as well as in a second half of the year, following the Windows XP end-of-support-related PC refresh.

Now let's talk about Windows 10. Last week was an important milestone on our path to release Windows 10, and usher in an era of more personal computing. The heritage of Windows was about enabling one single device, the PC. With Windows 10, we are building a device platform for the mobile first, cloud first world. It's a world where the mobility of a person's experience is paramount, requiring a platform that spans devices from small screens to large screens to no screens at all. It's a world where interacting with technology is as natural as interacting with other people, and it's a world that demands trust and security.

It is also a world with rich opportunity for developers, and Windows 10 will be the most attractive Windows development platform ever. With our free upgrade offer, and with universal application and unified store for developers, we'll have a large unified up-to-date user base to target. We want people to love Windows, and have made this our most collaborative project yet, with more than two million insiders giving us feedback every day. I'm very optimistic about Windows 10.

We are making progress with our own devices, for those in the market today, and also the ones that we have recently announced. This quarter we surpassed the $1 billion revenue mark with Surface for the first time. The value proposition of being the most productive tablet is resonating. Further, the sales for Lumia phones topped 10 million units, growing 30% year over year this quarter, with strength in devices such as Lumia 500 and 600 series, our affordable smartphones. In this segment of the market, the combination of our brand and value stand out, and we plan to continue to build a beachhead here.

We're also creating new device types that open up new markets and opportunities for Microsoft. In October we launched our first wearable, the Microsoft Band, and just last week we revealed two new hardware with Windows 10 -- Microsoft Surface Hub and Microsoft HoloLens. Microsoft Surface Hub will revolutionize group collaboration in meetings. HoloLens and Windows holographic computing will make mixed-reality applications part of everyday life across work and home.

I want to talk briefly about Xbox. Xbox One console adoption accelerated this holiday, and was the top-selling console in the US. Fans on Xbox Live were engaged with the service more than ever before. However, it's our strategies coming together with Windows 10 that give me the greatest optimism. The vibrant social gaming community on Xbox Live will span Xbox, Windows PC, tablets, and phones. With Windows 10, gamers on a PC, tablet, or Xbox console can play together; and games on Xbox One can easily stream to a Windows 10 PC or tablet.

It's also getting clearer how games people love today will evolve to mind-blowing experiences in the future, when designed for mixed reality that Windows 10 and HoloLens create. Just imagine what's possible with Minecraft. Gaming truly is a valuable part of millions of people's lives, and Microsoft will excel and increase our lead.

Before closing, I wanted to share a few thoughts on capital allocation. Over the past several quarters, and certainly with last week's Windows 10 announcement, you've seen us unleash new innovation in our Cloud services, with Windows and our hardware. We did all of this without materially growing our cost base. This required clarity in purpose and value proposition, realignment of talent, and disciplined execution. Our increasing innovation and competitiveness in today's growth markets and the creation of new categories is how we will most positively impact the returns for our investors.

Earlier today we announced our intention to complete the existing $40-billion share repurchase authorization by December 31, 2016. This is another step in our ongoing commitment to increase capital return for our shareholders while investing in the growth of our Business. It too shows our optimism for the future growth of Microsoft. As we move forward, we will certainly continue to be thoughtful in our capital return decisions, balanced across dividends and share repurchases.

In closing, I'm encouraged by the progress we are making in our transformation to become the productivity and platform Company for the mobile first, cloud first world. I'm proud of how our teams are stepping up to both change and execute to make this transformation happen. I'm confident of the decisions and choices we are making to drive our Business and products forward to serve our customers and partners in the future.

With that, I'll hand over to Amy to go through the quarter's results in further detail, and share our outlook for the next quarter. I look forward to rejoining you after that to answer your questions. Thank you.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, and good afternoon everyone.

As Satya shared, in Q2 we again made solid progress on our Business transformation. We had strong growth in our cloud and subscription businesses. Our annuity renewals were healthy, as customers remain committed to our enterprise portfolio. Our hardware products performed well during the holiday season.

As we expected, our year-over-year growth rates were impacted by the prior-year benefits that we realized in our OEM and Office transactional businesses following the Windows XP end-of-support refresh cycle. Beyond that, our results in China and Japan fell short of our expectations. In Japan, the PC market lagged due to their macroeconomic environment, along with the combined impact of XP end-of-support and the VAT increase last year. Our Office attach rate to PCs is very high there, so the weak PC market also impacted Office revenue.

With that said, let me take you through the financial highlights of our second quarter. Revenue was $26.5 billion, up 8%, and would have been one point better without the impact of foreign exchange. Gross margin grew slightly this quarter, even when comparing against a year ago that benefited from the XP refresh cycle. Our commitment to ongoing execution improvement and thoughtful portfolio management helped improved the gross margin percentage in each of our operating segments.

Operating income declined 2%, which included $243 million of integration and restructuring expenses. Excluding that, operating income grew 1%. Our reported GAAP earnings per share was $0.71, which included a $0.02 negative impact from integration and restructuring expense, and a $0.04 income tax charge for an IRS audit adjustment. Foreign exchange had a $0.01 negative impact on EPS.

As we discussed last quarter, FX movements first impact our bookings growth and unearned revenue on our balance sheet. Our contracted but not billed balance was adjusted down to reflect current FX rates. Therefore, our bookings were flat this quarter. Unearned revenue was up 9% year over year to $21.2 billion. But the sequential decline was slightly larger -- slightly higher than we expected, due to the larger-than-anticipated impact from FX. Adjusting for that FX impact, our commercial unearned balance was in line with historical trends and our expectations.

From a geographic perspective, relative to our expectations, the US out-performed and Europe was generally in line. As I mentioned earlier, China and Japan where below our expectations. With that backdrop, I will now move to a detailed discussion of our results.

Last year we ended support for Windows XP. That stimulated a PC refresh cycle, in particular in developed markets and with business customers. During the period from Q2 through the end of our fiscal year, Windows Pro revenue growth was over 10%, and meaningfully out-paced business PC growth. As expected, in Q2 PCs have reverted to a more normalized mix between developed and emerging markets, and Pro attached to business PCs has returned to the levels we saw prior to FY14.

Also, to drive revenue growth in academic institutions, we lowered the price of Windows Pro for that customer segment. This pricing change, along with the impact of XP, caused Windows revenue growth to be lower than the relatively stable business PC market we have seen since the end of FY13.

We again grew Windows non-Pro licenses, and saw year-over-year growth in activations. This was driven by particularly strong demand for opening-price-point PCs, related to the strategic decisions Satya spoke of earlier. The hardware mix shift to opening-price-point PCs impacted license mix, and therefore, aggregate revenue per license in the quarter. The mix shift was the main driver of our Windows non-Pro revenue decline. Inventory in the channel is a bit higher than normal, which we expect to work through in Q3.

Office consumer products and services revenue declined 12%, and was impacted by the ongoing transition to Office 365, and by the dynamics in Japan, where PC growth was lower than we expected, in a geography where the paid attach of Office is high. Adoption of Office 365 Home and Personal remain strong, and we now have over 9.2 million subscribers.

In our computing and gaming segment, we are proud of the continued progress we are making in our Surface portfolio. Strong interest in Surface Pro 3 helped to drive record revenue, as well as improved gross margin. Surface Pro 3 volumes are pacing over three times the rate of what we saw with Surface Pro 2.

In gaming, Xbox One was the console sales leader in the US. Xbox Live users grew, and those users increased their purchases of third-party publisher content and consumables. Sales of the Xbox platform exclusive, Halo: The Master Chief Collection, and Forza Horizon 2 were strong. This quarter we welcomed Minecraft.

We articulated our plan for the phone business back in July, and we are executing to plan. With our Lumia portfolio of phones, we are driving volumes in the low-price device category. We sold 10.5 million Lumia phones this quarter, an all-time high. We also sold over 39 million non-Lumia phones, even while we make changes to the product portfolio and manage this business for profitability. We are looking forward to bringing new products to market that will showcase the features that we presented at our Windows 10 event last week.

Revenue in our Devices and Consumer Other segment grew 30%. As noted earlier, Xbox Live transactions and first-party games performed well, and contributed to this growth. Additionally, search revenue growth was strong, with improvements in both rate and volume. Within display, revenue declined on our MSN portal, though we saw revenue growth across other Microsoft properties. We are also pleased by our gross margin expansion in this segment.

Transitioning now to our consumer results, where revenue grew 5%, our annuity revenue remained strong, growing double digits, and renewal rates remained high. Customers are continuing to move from transactional purchasing to long-term annuity contracts, as they show an increased commitment to our product road map. Our transactional revenue declined over 15%, slightly more than we expected, primarily in Office, and mostly due to our performance in China and Japan, which I detailed earlier. Additionally, FX had a greater negative impact on commercial revenue than we had anticipated.

Our commercial cloud services delivered triple-digit revenue growth for the sixth consecutive quarter. Office 365 continues to be priority for CIOs, as both existing and new customers move to the cloud. This transition accelerated, with 45% of our renewal seats in Office moving to the cloud this quarter. We are seeing great growth in revenue from premium Azure services, driven by both an increase in customer base, and an expansion in a number of services that those customers deploy. Within Internet Dynamics CRM Online, customer growth accelerated, and revenue nearly doubled.

From a product perspective, commercial Office product and services revenue declined 1%, slightly below our expectations. Annuity revenue remained strong with high renewal rates, and continued adoption of Office 365. Within our Office transactional business, year-on-year comparables are difficult given the benefits from last year's XP refresh, where customers chose to update their desktop productivity solutions along with their PC. Additionally, the shift to Office 365 continues to impact transactional revenue. While these dynamics were consistent with our expectations, revenue in China and Japan both fell short, given the factors that I noted earlier.

Server products and services revenue grew 9%, again out-pacing the broader IT market. Growth in premium mix helped to drive double-digit revenue growth in SQL Server and System Center. Windows server annuity revenue grew double digits again this quarter, but transactional revenue was down, primarily due to a decline in traditional server market. Additionally, we are pleased with the performance in our Dynamics business, which grew revenue 13%, driven by growth in both on-premises and cloud offerings.

Operating expense grew 1% to $8.3 billion, and was favorable to our expectations. These results are inclusive of investments that we made in our strategic growth areas, a few of which were showcased last week at a Windows 10 event. Excluding approximately $750 million from the addition of NDS, operating expense would have declined 8%. Relative to the guidance that we provided for the quarter, roughly half of the favorability resulted from FX changes, with the balance driven by our continued prioritization of spend.

Our integration and restructuring efforts have been focused on optimizing resources across the Company, which includes reducing the expense base in our phone business. To date, we have integrated the manufacturing and supply chain teams across Microsoft, while also rationalizing our phone manufacturing capacity. In operating expense, we committed to reducing $1 billion from the phone cost base, which we have done. We continue to look for opportunities to drive further efficiencies.

Our effective tax rate was 25%, and higher than expected due to previously mentioned income tax charge for an IRS audit adjustment. Beyond that, the increase was driven by the inclusion of phone results and our changing geographic mix.

Capital expenditures were $1.5 billion, driven primarily by investments to increase our capacity as we expanded existing, and added new data centers, as well as made server purchases in support of our fast-growing cloud business. This quarter we increased our capital return by 5%, with $4.5 billion returned to shareholders through buy-backs and dividends. And, as Satya reinforced in this comments, we will continue to take thoughtful steps to increase capital return to shareholders with a focus on value.

With that overview of the current quarter, let me now turn to our outlook. Our guidance is based on our current view of FX rates. Should the US dollar strengthen beyond those assumptions, as it did this quarter, we would see additional negative impact to earnings, revenue, our balance sheet, and our contracted-but-not-billed balance.

As a reminder, in our annuity businesses, the FX impact is first reflected in unearned revenue, which is recorded at the rate when the contract is billed. Then revenue comes onto the P&L at that same rate as it is recognized, generally over the next year. Therefore, in Q3 we will start to recognize a higher percentage of revenue from periods with a stronger US dollar than the prior-year comparison. In total, we expect that FX will negatively impact revenue growth by approximately four points in Q3. The majority of this impact is in our commercial business.

In FY14, it was our Q2 through Q4 results that most benefited from Windows XP end of support. As such, our growth rates across Windows Pro and transactional Office will be impacted as our Business moves back to pre-XP levels. On a geographic basis, we expect year-on-your revenue declines in China, Russia, and Japan. In Japan, Q3 represents an even tougher comparison, with the anniversary of the VAT, which again will create different comparables -- difficult comparables in Windows and Office. We currently expect the geographic dynamics, challenging comparables from XP, and FX headwinds will be in place throughout the remainder of our fiscal year.

With that overall background, let me move to our specific Q3 guidance, starting with devices and consumer, where revenue guidance includes approximately four points of drag from FX. In licensing, we expect revenue to be $3.4 billion to $3.6 billion. This range assumes the more challenging comparables I mentioned earlier. The range also includes a reduction in channel inventory for Windows non-Pro opening-price-point PCs.

Within consumer Office, we expect to see similar trends to Q2; and within our IP licensing business, we expect lower per-unit royalties with the changing-mix devices sold by our licensees. In computing and gaming, we expect revenue to be $1.5 billion to $1.7 billion. This range reflects normal seasonality coming out of the holidays for our Xbox and Surface businesses.

In phone hardware, we expect revenue to be $1.4 billion to $1.5 billion. This range anticipates accelerating year-over-year growth in Lumia units, driven by our affordable smartphone devices. We also expect both volumes and ASPs of non-Lumia devices to continue to decline in Q3. With this lower aggregate revenue base, we expect gross margins, which include non-cash amortization, to be lower for the next couple of quarters. In Devices and Consumer Other, we expect revenue to be about $2 billion, reflecting continued progress in key areas, like Office 365 Home and Personal, Xbox Live, and search.

In our commercial business, we expect our significant momentum in annuity and commercial cloud services to continue. Within our commercial licensing segment, we expect revenue to be $9.7 billion to $9.9 billion. In addition to the factors I discussed, which impact our year-over-year comparability, we anticipate a four-point drag from FX.

In Commercial Other, we expect revenue to be $2.6 billion to $2.7 billion dollars. Even after considering the impact of FX, growth will remain robust, with expected momentum across our commercial cloud portfolio: Office 365, Azure, and CRM Online. And, in corporate, we don't expect any revenue impact.

As we continue to work towards the launch of Windows 10, we will share additional detailed information regarding any accounting impacts from the Windows 10 free upgrade offer, and Windows as a service. I would like to reiterate that our OEM royalty model, which is paid up front, will remain in place.

We expect COGS to be $7.1 billion to $7.4 billion, with variability driven by both hardware segments. We expect third-quarter operating expense to be $8.2 billion to $8.4 billion. We are lowering our full-year guidance to $33.2 billion to $33.6 billion dollars, which reduces full-year growth, including NDS, to 4% to 5%.

Our Q3 plans include investments in advertising and customer-facing roles to continue to accelerate our momentum, with commercial products such as SQL and the cloud. These investments are a direct result of re-prioritization decisions made during H1. Over the remainder of the fiscal year, we expect to incur an additional $200 million of restructuring expense. This results in total charges of roughly $1.4 billion, which is lower than our previous guidance.

Separately, we still expect integration expense of $100 million per quarter for the remainder of the fiscal year. As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense, and the net cost of hedging. Given the current FX environment, we expect other income and expense to be negative $100 million in Q3.

We now expect our full-year tax rate to be between 22% and 24%. This includes the Q2 income tax charge for an IRS audit adjustment, as well as the changing geographic mix of our Business. In Q3 we expect CapEx to sequentially increase in support of our growing cloud business.

Unearned revenue will continue to benefit from customers moving to our subscription services and high contract renewal rates. We expect to see low-single-digit sequential decline in our unearned for Q3, which includes one point drag from FX, as new billings will reflect the impact of the strengthening US dollar. Our commercial unearned balance will follow recent historical seasonality when adjusted for FX.

In closing, this quarter was another example of the progress that we are making across this Company. Our execution continues to improve, and we are making data-driven decisions to inform more investments, both shorter-term as you have seen in our marketing and sales adjustments, as well as for the longer-term as we adjust our product portfolio.

There are certainly short-term comparability challenges as we anniversary last year's XP refresh cycle and see the impact of the strengthening US dollar. But we are confident in the underlying health of our Business, proud of the significant innovation we are funding within our prioritized operating budget, and excited to continue gaining share in key strategic markets.

Before I hand it back over to Chris, I would like to announce that we will be webcasting a briefing for the investor community on April 29 in conjunction with our Build Developer Conference in San Francisco. We'll share more details as we get closer to the date.

With that, I will turn it back over to Chris, and we can move to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Things, Amy. With that, we will now move to Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Moerdler, Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Amy, can you give us a bit more details on what's driving the increase in cloud margins within the Commercial Other segment, as well as any sense for how accretive the cloud is becoming? Then I have a follow-up question.

AMY HOOD: Sure. Why don't I talk a little bit about that from a math perspective, and I will let Satya add from some of our engineering improvements, which I think are important.

Mark, as I talked a bit about, we've seen a mix shift as we have moved Office 365 and Azure to our premium service, and to premium SKUs within our cloud environment. That is one of the drivers that helps improve margin growth.

In addition, we've done a lot of hard engineering work, I believe, over the past six quarters to be able to take advantage of more utilization and capacity over time. I will let Satya maybe add a little bit technically.

SATYA NADELLA: Overall, the shift to the higher-layer services is the real driver here, which is obviously Office 365 and its various levels is one factor. The other one is what I talked about in the Enterprise Mobility Suite. That's really got fantastic momentum in the market place, because the solution has really come together and is fairly unique, as well as Dynamics CRM. These have all got a different profile in terms of margin, and they are all now pretty high-growth businesses for us.

When you think about our cloud, you've got to think about the low-level infrastructure. Even there we now have premium offerings, and then we have higher-level services. That aggregate portfolio is what helps us move up the margin curve.

MARK MOERDLER: Excellent. One quick follow-up. How should we think about monetization, Satya, for the Windows devices sub-nine-inch?

SATYA NADELLA: One of the comments I had made in my remarks was some momentum we are seeing in our consumer cloud services. For example, the store monetization, Bing monetization, Xbox Live monetization as Xbox Live now in fact is going to span devices, are all things that drive monetization for below nine inches. I think our device growth margin in some cases, because we are building devices like the phones, as well as this post-sale monetization using our consumer cloud services, as the two additional levers that we have in order to be able to monetize Windows devices.

MARK MOERDLER: Excellent. Thank you, I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Amy, just on the XP tail-off, are there other commercial products that you are seeing being impacted? I just wanted to be clear, there were a lot of questions that is there some type of halo impact from XP taking growth down on the other solutions?

AMY HOOD: Sure Brent, thanks for the question. I think it's the exact product portfolio that we talked about last year when the impact was happening, so let me take this opportunity to walk you through those components again. Obviously there's the very direct impact, which we've talked the most about in terms of Windows Pro, and its mix would attach to business PCs.

The other important component of that was when people bought a PC, as we talked through the year, they often took the chance -- whether generally in the business segment, which impacts in our world commercial licensing as a reporting unit -- to buy Office, and generally on a non-annuity basis. If you think about that being the next major transactional-type purchase that was driven a year ago as the first externality.

The second was in Windows BL. We also saw non-annuity purchases in Windows BL, which again is in our commercial licensing segment. If you think about it from a product portfolio, it really is Windows and Office. If you think about it from our reporting segments, it's the DNC licensing segment, as well as our commercial licensing segment, and specifically our transactional revenue growth year-over-year.

BRENT THILL: Okay. A quick follow-up, just on the reduction in operating expenses for the full year. Is this across the board, Amy, or is there a particular area that you are fighting more opportunity to cut?

AMY HOOD: Brent, thanks again. I actually think of it as a general concept. I think we are trying to invest behind opportunities where we see them. Some of those are more public as we talk about in terms of our sales and marketing adjustments, or add campaigns that we run like the commercial cloud.

Others I think you don't have the opportunity to see until we launch products like we did last week, where we were able to re-assort our product portfolio. And really move our talent to invest in -- I guess mind-blowing is the word Satya used -- in terms of product portfolio in that way.

I'm not sure that all of it, Brent, I would say is across a line in that way. They're short-term optimization and longer-term portfolio optimization.

I think we've talked about this before. I think the entire senior leadership team views it as an opportunity to think about where we can best innovate, and drive the highest value of every dollar that we invest. I think we've made great progress as a team. I think you're seeing that both in the long-term guidance and in frankly our day-to-day execution through the quarter.

SATYA NADELLA: I will add that we are also making pretty significant changes in just the very work flow of our engineering teams, and that also leads to us getting more out of our current investments. There is significant, I would say, combination of culture change, as well as how we work change, that drives more innovation for the same dollar.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks. Two questions, one on execution. It sounds like you highlighted some issues in Japan, and we've heard about VAT from other companies. Can you talk about what you're doing to address some of those issues, and is there any concern that that might spread beyond what you've seen in Japan and China?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Walter. Is that both your questions, I want to make sure I get them?

WALTER PRITCHARD: No, I'm trying to understand generally that issue. I had one other if there's time.

SATYA NADELLA: I will start by talking about China. We have in China currently a set of geopolitical issues that we are working through. We are very committed to China as a market. We have in fact pockets of good growth in China, with our Cloud doing fairly well.

But at the same time, we are grounded in the fact that we need more work to do, and we are working through them. As and when they will work out we will let you know.

AMY HOOD: I will talk a little bit about Japan. Walter, to answer your question, I don't have any concerns that that expands, especially in this unique issue beyond Japan. With the Windows end-of-XP plus the VAT increase, I do think, as well of some of the macroeconomic environment, it tightened far faster than we had anticipated.

Japan in particular, because of its model for us, it is a non-annuity geography for us. Impacts in Japan more directly come to the P&L, as opposed to on our unearned or CNB balances. That's why this quarter you saw some weakness in commercial licensing. But when adjusted for FX, our unearned balance and bookings actually felt quite good from a commercial perspective.

WALTER PRITCHARD: One question on Office 365 commercial. Can you talk about deployment rates there? I know you've done a good job of getting those into contracts. How many customers are actually running it -- running their e-mail and SharePoint and other products in the cloud, versus just having the rights to it?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Walter. I think with all products I think about the complete sales cycle. I'm really encouraged by the fact that we are doing a good job of moving from the initial sales through deployment, through adding on services and back to renewals. I think the importance of that customer life cycle is really how we think about our work loads and our work load health in the cloud.

The work load that we're furthest along on is obviously Exchange. It happens to also come with directory implementation. We generally think of a fast deployment schedule, and then adding on workflows and premium work flow cycles.

Then, as you might imagine, that provides an interesting environment for us to add on some of the products actually that Satya mentioned very directly in his comments, such as EMS, our Enterprise Mobility Suite. While I think there's always a lag, the actual goal of the commitment that the customers show to the movement to the cloud, and then moving them quickly as we can, but also at their own pace, through deployment.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I just wanted to dig into Windows OEM ASPs a little bit, and just try to better understand the dynamics between what we see in the market place when we look at industry analysts that we're looking at, basically flat to slightly down unit grown -- and the down 13% OEM revenue growth that you guys are seeing on some of this mix and some of this ASP. I was wondering if you can help us with a little bit more color in terms of exactly what that ASP dynamic is going on in terms of these lower entry-level additions? What's that doing to the overall ASP of what you're able to extract from the market?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith. I will take the opportunity, actually, to do it for both Pro as well as non-Pro, because I wasn't sure which category you were talking about. Let me start at the highest level, which is if I look at industry analysts as well as many of our peers in the ecosystem, I actually think we agree with most of the benchmarks in terms of PC unit health across business, which has been stable since FY13, and across consumer, where we've seen meaningful progress made in unit growth, both last quarter and especially this one.

Then I will take a second and talk about the distinction between the revenue growth versus the unit growth. Let me start first in Pro. There, there are really two key dynamics.

The first is the return to the XP levels that we saw prior to the XP refresh. They're consistent. The dynamic mix in terms of emerging markets and developed, as well as enterprise sizing is not an ASP problem in Pro. It is a return to the attach level we saw before.

The component that actually is -- the second component in Pro that is a quote-unquote ASP/mix comment, is the academic licenses I referred to earlier, where we did lower the price, and saw an increased unit number. That was a second component of the revenue piece. But the larger component was the XP reversion, again, that's not an ASP comment.

When you come to non-Pro, I think this really refers back to Satya's comments, which is we saw device growth in the low-price devices' opening price points. We actually made I believe a strategic decision to increase our ability to put devices on the shelf, especially at retail, at prices under $200 to $249, is how to think about the price points that were the most impacted.

We do have the Windows with Bing SKU there. It is a lower RPL than our traditional non-Pro OEM license. But I do believe it drove meaningful ecosystem health, and as well drove good competitive dynamics in the channel.

Overall, while it did have an RPL impact which does explain along with mix shift the minus 13% in non-pro OEM versus the PC license growth that we saw, I think really Satya covered the actual logic to that in terms of overall ecosystem health, which we feel quite good about.

KEITH WEISS: If I could squeeze in one follow-up. Have you guys done any assessment in terms of the success you're seeing in Surface Pro 3 definitely is a real productivity device. To what extent is that cannibalistic from what would have been Windows PC sales, and to what extent do you think you are expanding the market opportunity with that device?

SATYA NADELLA: I think it's definitely expanding the market opportunity. One of the things that I feel very good about is the risk we took to introduce the two-in-one category.

I feel now that we see that in fact inspire even a lot of activity in our own OEM ecosystem. We see many good designs coming, because it is viewed as a category that drives growth. From that perspective, I feel good about leading, because that's one of our strategic goals, which is we want to create new categories, foster more demand for the entire ecosystem.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks. For Satya, could you talk about the implications of Windows 10 for a moment? I'm thinking in terms of a new platform for innovation, and maybe you could talk about post-sale monetization. What do you think the impact is on demand in the industry and the opportunities for Microsoft around the new platform?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Rick, for the question. As I said in my remarks, I'm very optimistic about what Windows 10 means for our customers, partners, and Microsoft.

The core idea of Windows 10 is to build a device operating system that spans the gamut from no-screens to small screens to PCs, and even large screens. In fact, if you look at our innovation, we are perhaps unique in the large-screen innovation that we are doing with Surface Hub, HoloLens, as well as some of the two-in-one form factors.

Overall, I think the most strategic objective for us is to get developer momentum with Windows 10. That's where we're focusing on with a lot of different actions.

One is the one unified developer platform, which I think of as perhaps the most strategic piece of Windows 10, along with the unified store. Now couple that with the call we made to provide an upgrade offer, we are creating the great opportunity for every developer to write these universal Windows applications that will run on the desktop, as well as on our phone and tablets, as well as on Surface Hub. In fact, HoloLens runs universal applications. No one else provides that kind of unified market place for developers. Especially the changes we have made to the desktop user interface means these universal applications are in fact very naturally discoverable right where we have high usage, which is the desktop.

That's the combination of things that we think are going to play out effectively. Of course we are in beta right now or previews right now, and getting daily feedback across the length and breadth of Windows 10. But overall, I'm very optimistic of what it means both as a platform, as well as a set of end-user features.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Rick. Operator, we'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, guys. I've got a question on the Commercial Other line. Obviously that continues to show strong growth.

You've been calling out the cloud business, whether it be Azure or Office 365. I wanted to double-click on the Azure side. Wondering if you can help us parse through the infrastructure as a service and the platform as a service side, and the trends there, and any sort of joint benefit, I guess, that you're seeing in being able to offer both those two?

Also Satya, as this business does scale -- and then Amy I'd love you to chime in here, too -- how do you think about the gross margin and operating margin characteristics, once again, as the revenue continues to grow here?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Phil. Let me start.

Overall, what we are seeing is clearly there's increased usage of infrastructure as a service, because a lot of people will move an existing workload into the cloud. But the interesting thing that happens once you move your initial workload is you build around it. Especially, for example, if you move a VM with some data into the cloud, you may want to use the same data to build a mobile front end. That's when you're starting to use some of our platform as a service components, like our Azure mobile services, Azure media services.

We see the combination. They're not all happening coincident, but there is time lag in it. Therefore that's one of the reasons why we want to be very aggressive in getting the workloads on to Azure, both storage and compute. Even in the storage and compute, we now have premium offerings for higher SLA, for higher performance, higher VM sizes.

On top of that we have these managed services, which have a different margin profile -- so media services, mobile services, Web, which is another place where we action we have a lot of traction. Then that's all just on Azure. Once you get beyond Azure, you have things like CRM Online, you have Enterprise Mobility Suite, and of course the Office 365 lineup.

When we think about our capital, and in fact the core infrastructure, we don't have different infrastructure for these different services. It's one common infrastructure, and one common data center footprint between O365, Azure, CRM, Xbox Live, everything. That's why utilization of that entire infrastructure is how we think about even total return on invested capital for our cloud business.

CHRIS SUH: Great. Thanks, Phil. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I just wanted to follow up, Amy. Your Commercial Other business continues to have fantastic growth. I'm wondering when you juxtapose that with the growth in the commercial licensing business -- I heard you in terms of the headwinds that you face -- but when we think about it more than one quarter out, we think about the revenue transition as you guys continue to build market share in the cloud, how do we think about the trend in the commercial licensing business in the next year or so?

AMY HOOD: Let me -- I think in general, let me start by saying all up, right? In our commercial business, I think we've done a very good job of continuing to out-pace IT spend on an overall basis, and continuing to push customers to our annuity business, whether they're on premise or the cloud. That is our strategic goal, as well as impacts in both segments.

Now let me talk about uniquely commercial licensing and how to think about it. While I won't give specific guidance, I will talk about how to think about the impact, in particular from XP. Our transactional revenue will have a headwind from XP. That doesn't and shouldn't be interpreted as customers not continuing to be committed, or not committing to move to annuity over the longer term, which is exactly I think the question that you are asking.

While we have a comparability issue that will show itself most directly as weakness in commercial licensing, and most specifically as weakness in Office transactional licensing, which will be a headwind, the overall goal of continuing to have more customers every quarter move to the cloud -- or whether or not they move, adding cloud services, even if they have on-prem, because they believe in a hybrid model -- is actually the structural guidepost we have on a multi-year journey.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Heather. Operator, we'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Two quick questions. Satya, I wanted to follow up on Phil Winslow's question earlier on Azure and the use cases there. In theory you have a huge opportunity, given your install base on the server side.

Can you talk a little bit about what you are seeing the SMB customer base doing there? Are we in that people trying on bursting, or where is that huge customer base in terms of adoption on Azure?

SATYA NADELLA: On Azure itself, one of the other elements that I did not actually talk about in response to Phil's question is the hybrid offering. One of the products that's doing very well for us is the StorSimple product, which is essentially a storage product that cloud tiers virtualization storage from on-premise to the cloud. We also have built now into Windows server backup and disaster recovery, same thing with SQL Server. That's the first thing that we are seeing is increased usage of our servers with a cloud component.

Bursting is something for sure a lot of people do, but that's more on the high end. Because in the SMB segment, the real movement there is more to Office 365. In fact, one of the things in Office 365 is we are getting people to effectively use servers, which just now happens to be in cloud, who never bought servers from us ever before, because they didn't have Exchange, they didn't have Link, they didn't have any of the core capabilities of Office 365. Those are the two trends we're seeing.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Perfect. A quick follow-up for Amy.

If you look at the changes on the operating side that you talked about, it obviously seems there's a cultural shift. What's more, if you watch it, it's more dynamic budgeting and some very much a return-based culture you seem to be introducing here. But it's something that needs to feed through the organization, and it's more a cultural change. Where are you in terms of having it fully through the organization?

AMY HOOD: Thanks for that question. I think we talked about this in prior quarters.

While I think many people want to see it as a finance concept, it's not. It's a senior leadership team concept, and a leadership environment, that I think we are making collective decisions faster. I think we are playing our resources to opportunities when we see them. I think we have a freedom to make those choices quickly.

I feel very good, both about the decisiveness that comes with it, but also the empowerment that we give people within our organizations to make those calls to increase our performance without waiting to an annual budget process. I think some people call it dynamic budgeting. I think for us, I think it's more about thinking about opportunities we have, and stack-ranking those every day to improve both our execution and our returns.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Amy, when we first started talking about Office 365, I think at that time you were suggesting that the move from an Office cal to an Office 365 license would increase gross profit by about 50%. Now that you've had a couple quarters with Office 365, do you think those changes to the model still make sense? More importantly, are there maybe other changes that you've seen that are more accurate?

AMY HOOD: Thanks for the question. In general, I think we are still on the early ends of seeing the opportunity that we have in that segment. As you point out, there's a couple components that make gross profit dollars per seat, or the lifetime value of a customer, depending on the terms you want to use, improve and increase over the life cycle.

The very first thing -- and I think Satya even mentioned it, and it's most direct in SMB -- is moving from buying a copy of Office, which was a very static concept, to the idea where you could buy Office and frankly get all the benefits that those who used to deploy servers used to get only with IT departments of their own. As you move Office, it's simply the first step. Even though obviously it comes at a lower gross-margin percentage, our ability to add workloads, add premium services, and to increase our overall footprint inside a customer, is really where the lifetime value goes up.

Frankly, over time and watching, I think both the creativity and the pace of innovation we've seen coming out of our engineering teams, particularly in Azure and Office 365 and our CRM team online, I actually even have more confidence in our ability to attach and grow that gross profit over time. We mentioned simply one that didn't exist, I think Brendan, when we first started having this conversation, which was our EMS suite. I look and say those opportunities, as well as the creativity of our people, I think gives me more confidence, not less, in the structural integrity of the lifetime value of a customer argument.

BRENDAN BARNICLE: Great, thanks so much.

CHRIS SUH: Operator, we'll have time for one last question, please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Yes, thank you. Over the last several quarters, particular Satya, you've opened up a number of the products to different platforms, Office and Android. With Minecraft and Skype, you've got a number of really multi-platform products and services.

Could you quantify so far to what extent you have seen benefit? As this plays into the free upgrade for Windows 10, at least for a limited period, how you expect this to play out benefiting the business case of your products across the portfolio?

SATYA NADELLA: Overall, at the highest levels our strategy here is to make sure that the Microsoft services -- i.e., cloud service, be it Azure, Office 365, CRM Online, or Enterprise Mobility Suite -- are covering all the devices out there in the market place, so that way we maximize the opportunity we have for each of these subscription and capacity-based services. That's the core rationale for why we are doing cross-platform.

Now the next question is what's the uniqueness of Windows? The uniqueness of Windows comes because we don't think of these services and their application end points as apps, but fundamentally core to the Windows experience. So we are building them natively into Windows.

For example, when you log into Windows you are logging in with Microsoft account or Azure ID. When you have files, they're synching with one drive. Outlook is the e-mail client for Windows. That's how Windows will differentiate, not to mention our gaming and Xbox Live experiences.

Overall, we will build a differentiated Windows, because our application experiences for our cloud end points will be native in Windows. And at the same time we'll make sure that our services that are available on all end points driving more usage, more subscription growth. The best way to measure our progress is Office 365 subscription growth, Azure growth, and EMS growth.

ED MAGUIRE: Great, thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Great, thanks. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call.

We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast, and you can follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details, and thank you for joining us today.

AMY HOOD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150128eb1q003ml
  


 HD
 Q1  2015 Microsoft Corp Earnings Call - Final
   WC
8,678 words
   PD
23 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the first-quarter FY15 Microsoft Corporation earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website www.microsoft.com/investor, we have posted our press release and a slide deck that provides a summary of our results this quarter. Unless otherwise specified, all growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period last year.

Please note that we have recast certain prior-period amounts to conform with the current period presentation with no impact on consolidated net income or cash flow. Additionally, any reference to operating expenses includes research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative, but exclude integration and restructuring charges.

We will post the prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft investor relations website until October 23, 2015.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports of filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. Three months ago I outlined how Microsoft is the productivity and platform company for the mobile-first, cloud-first world. Since then we have galvanized around this direction and are executing well.

I'm proud of the results we have delivered this quarter across all businesses. Results are in every category from commercial to consumer to hardware. With $23.2 billion in revenue for this quarter, we're off to a great start to the year. More importantly, we're also pleased with the progress we have made in evolving our culture to be fast, innovative, partner friendly, and customer-obsessed. As I reflect on this past quarter, there's four important indicators of progress that I want to highlight: cloud, Windows, hardware, and finally, I'll talk about our ecosystem momentum.

First, our cloud offerings continue to grow at a rapid rate. More people and organizations are signing up and we are generating more revenue across both commercial and consumer customers. Our commercial cloud revenue grew 128% year over year, the fifth consecutive quarter of triple-digit growth. In fact, we're the only company with cloud revenue at our scale that is growing at triple-digit rates. And 80% of the Fortune 500 are now on the Microsoft Cloud.

Office 365 commercial seats nearly doubled, two out of every three new customers seats are premium versions. Consumer Office 365 now exceeds 7 million subscribers, up more than 25% for the last quarter alone.

We continue to invest in growing our leadership position in areas with great opportunity. To that end, we are expanding our data center capacity to meet demand, provide the best customer experience, enable data sovereignty, and deliver continuous innovation. As you are seeing robust growth because of our unique approach as the only hyper scale public cloud provider with enterprise grade capabilities and true private cloud and hybrid cloud offerings.

We continue to add new features and capabilities faster than ever based on user feedback cycles. One major Azure service or feature is released every three days on average, opening up many more new user scenarios for our customers.

Our premium services on Azure create new monetization opportunities in media, data, machine learning, and fast analytics, and enterprise mobility. More than 60% of the Azure customers are now using at least one of these premium services such as enterprise mobility suite, which is off to a very fast start. Start-ups and ISVs love our open and flexible approach and are building on Azure at a rapid pace.

In fact, 40% of Azure revenue now comes from start-ups and ISVs. Even with our tremendous growth in public cloud, we are still seeing strength in our on-premise businesses with double-digit growth across Windows Server, SQL Server, System Center, and Dynamics. This is because of the unique hybrid and private cloud capabilities that are built into our servers.

The second indicator of progress is the improvement in the overall health of the Windows ecosystem in the first quarter. We introduced an expanded set of Windows offerings which helped drive consumer unit growth in quarter one, and will provide incremental opportunity for use of Microsoft services such as Bing. With these new offerings, OEMs are delivering exciting new devices at extremely attractive price points, including Windows PCs at $199 and below.

In September, we took the first steps in publicly sharing more about the next generation of Windows. Windows 10 will unlock new experiences for customers to work, play, and connect across an incredibly broad set of devices, with screens from 4 inches to 80 inches, and even IOT devices.

Windows 10 will deliver a single unified application development platform, one way to write a universal app across the entire family of Windows devices, and one store with a unified way for applications to be discovered, purchased, and updated across all these devices. Think about it. With Windows 10, developers can build one app that spans billions of devices.

When I talk about putting customers at the center of everything we do, it's especially true for Windows. We're incorporating customer feedback earlier than ever in the development cycle, especially with our enterprise customers. This will be the best Windows release ever for businesses, and with hundreds of thousands of pieces of feedback flowing into the team already, Windows 10 will be the most collaborative version of Windows we have ever shared.

Third, I want to highlight some specific markers of advancement in hardware and gaming. Across the entire hardware portfolio, I'm encouraged by the reception from customers and our continuously improving execution. Surface has strong results this quarter. Driven by positive customer response to Surface Pro 3, the product line-up is the right one and customers are responding favorably. Surface Pro 3 is now in 28 markets, and importantly, we have improved the business economics of this product line.

With phone, we have moved quickly to integrate the business. We're executing on all of the restructuring changes we talked about in the last quarter, while driving Lumia share growth. We saw modest growth over the prior year driven by sales in Europe, where we gained share with lower-priced devices.

Now let's talk gaming. As I previously said, gaming is an important category that will drive additive business value for Microsoft. It is the single biggest digitalized category measured in both time and money spent across devices of all types.

We launched Xbox One in 28 markets, increased console units sales from a year ago, and grew users of Xbox LIVE apps by more than 20%. The acquisition of Mojang, which we expect to close in November, extends our ecosystem and community across multiple platforms. Minecraft adds to our already strong portfolio of first-party games and content such as Halo, and will strengthen our gaming experiences on PCs and consoles, as well as cross-platform monetization.

The fourth and final area I want to focus on today is the renewed energy and momentum in our partnerships. As a productivity and platforms company, we create vast opportunity for our partners. We're moving fast to extend our platforms and tools to reach more customers through partnerships. From SAP and Oracle to Salesforce, Adobe, and IBM, to the latest partnerships we announced this past week with Docker, Cloudera, and CoreOS, great partnerships emerge from great products, strong momentum, and a shared enthusiasm about a long-term vision.

Technology leaders across the board recognize the customer value inherent in products like Office 365, Azure, and Windows. And they want to align their businesses with our healthy and growing ecosystem. You'll see more partnerships in the months ahead. It's the best way to deliver the best possible experience for our customers in today's heterogeneous mobile-first, cloud-first world.

In summary, I'm pleased with the progress we're making, teams all across the Company are rallying around our core focus to reinvent productivity and create platforms for a mobile-first, cloud-first world. We will continue to drive the changes that will position us for the future. We will be accountable to our customers, partners, and shareholders, and we will be relentless in looking for areas to invest for long-term growth.

With that, Amy will go through our Q1 results in detail and share our outlook for Q2, and then I'll join up with Q&A. Thank you very much.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks. And good afternoon, everyone. As Satya said, we had a very strong start to the fiscal year. We made meaningful progress with improved execution across all our businesses. I encouraged by what we have achieved, and believe we are well-positioned for the future. With that said, let me take you through the financial highlights of our first quarter.

Revenue was $23.2 billion, up 25% over last year, and up 11% excluding phone. Earnings per share were $0.54, which included an $0.11 negative impact from integration and restructuring expenses. Excluding that impact, EPS grew 5% to $0.65, even after considering the impact of the phone business on profits.

We are accelerating the pace of decision-making and taking decisive actions to improve how we operate. This approach is reflected in the progress we've made in restructuring the Company and integrating our phone business. As a result, we incurred charges of $1.1 billion this quarter. Geographically, we saw strong performance across the US and Europe, and consistent with Q4, a more challenging environment in China and Russia.

Let me now discuss our results in greater detail. Our commercial business had another strong quarter. Revenue grew 10% and unearned revenue grew 12%. Renewal rates were higher than what we've seen in recent first quarters. And in Office, one-third of renewals included Office 365.

Importantly, we are seeing a mix shift from on-prem to the cloud, from transactional purchasing to annuity, and from standard to premium versions. Our commercial cloud services continued their exceptional trajectory with another quarter of triple-digit growth. We're investing in higher-level services and new scenarios in Azure enabled by the scale, cost, and flexibility of the cloud. And these services are expanding our addressable market. We're adding new users, and importantly, growing revenue from existing on-prem customers who have adopted Azure services.

Our on-prem data platform infrastructure product continues to have strong momentum with an ongoing shift to premium versions. Revenue from premium SKUs was up 25% this quarter.

Office 365 had another terrific quarter and remains on path to becoming the unparalleled leader for cloud-based productivity apps. CIOs are selecting Office 365 as the centerpiece of their hybrid productivity solutions as they look to meet the growing mobile needs of their employees. SMBs also realizing the benefits of Office 365, and as a result are moving from transactional purchasing to subscription. And as Satya mentioned, we're seeing good partnership momentum as other companies look to integrate Office 365 into their products.

Turning to Windows. Windows OEM Pro revenue performed in line with the business PC market. And volumes were more consistent with those seen before the XP refresh in FY14. Windows volume licensing grew 10% as business customers continue to value the platform's security and manageability.

During the quarter, we took important steps to grow Windows usage and improve the health of the ecosystem. Both our existing and new OEM partners are bringing to market an expanded set of device offerings at more competitive price points. Channel inventories are higher than they were last year, reflecting confidence from our OEM partners heading into the holiday quarter.

IP licensing revenue declined this quarter as our licensees sold a higher mix of low-cost devices, which generated lower per unit royalty. Consumer office revenue inclusive of our subscription offerings grew 7% this quarter. Within this, we saw an accelerated transition to Office 365 Home and Personal, which contributed to a decline in traditional Office license revenue. Overall, it's important to note that we continued to grow attached to consumer devices.

In Bing, revenue was driven by volume and rate growth. We again delivered double-digit monetization gains, driven by investments in core relevance and ranking algorithms. These improvements keep us on the path to Bing profitability in FY16. And consistent with prior quarters, display revenue remained under pressure.

We are excited by Surface Pro 3 performance, as unit sales are pacing at twice the rate of what we saw with Pro 2. We're seeing strong interest from students, professionals, and increasingly enterprises, who are replacing their laptops and tablets with Surface Pro 3 for their productivity needs. Gross margin for Surface was positive this quarter.

Within gaming, our results reflect a growing console market, our improved competitive position with the new Xbox One SKU, and the launch of Xbox One into new geos, including the initial channel fill for the launch in China at the end of Q1.

As we head into the holiday season, we're looking forward to the differentiated content that will be available on the Xbox platform, including Sunset Overdrive, which launches in late October, and Halo: Master Chief Collection, which launches in early November.

In phone hardware, the focus of the quarter was on positioning the business for the future. And we remain committed to reaching breakeven in [FY16]. As part of our restructuring efforts, we started rightsizing our manufacturing capacity, created one development team to accelerate the pace of innovation, and focused our sales and marketing efforts on Lumia, which grew in several key markets.

Sales of non-Lumia phones were down, driven by declines in the underlying feature phone market, as well as portfolio rationalization as we execute on our phone strategy. Gross margin this quarter included the benefit of non-recurring items resulting from our business integration efforts.

Operating expenses were favorable to our expectations, as we chose to redeploy spend to projects occurring later this fiscal year. These decisions reflect our disciplined assessment as we prioritize where to best allocate our resources. Importantly, we continue to invest in developer- and customer-facing roles to capture the opportunities in key growth categories such as the cloud, big data, and the Internet of Things.

Our effective tax rate was 23% this quarter, influenced by the changing mix of our business, as well as NDS operating losses and restructuring charges, some of which are not tax-deductible. This quarter, we had $1.3 billion of off-of-capital expenditure. We continue to expand the capacity and locations of our data centers to deliver higher service levels, reduce latency, and help meet local data compliance requirements for our global customers. Importantly, even while making these investments, we continue to grow the gross margin of our cloud business.

This quarter we increased our capital return by 19%, with $4.6 billion returned to shareholders through buybacks and dividends. As we said in September, the Board and Management continue to assess our broader capital allocation strategy as we focus on increasing long-term shareholder value.

With that overview of the current quarter, let me now turn to our outlook for the second quarter, starting with foreign exchange. Foreign exchange did not have a material impact on our Q1 results, as movements were relatively late in the quarter. The following guidance is based on current FX rates, and should the US dollar continue to strengthen, it will create headwinds in our foreign transactional business. The impact of FX on our annuity business will first be reflected in deferred revenue as it based on rates when the contract is billed, and then into the P&L at that same rate as the revenue is recognized.

Now moving onto guidance, starting with devices and consumer. In licensing, we expect revenue to be $4.0 billion to $4.2 billion. Remember in Q2 of last year we recognized about $650 million of revenue from our commercial agreement with Nokia, which has ended. While revenue recognition for the agreement was heavily weighted to Q2 based on contract terms, COGS recognized ratably over the course of the year.

Consistent with the current quarter, IP licensing revenue will reflect lower per unit royalties with the changing mix of devices sold by our licensees. With the addition of Office 365 consumer services in Japan, the transition from traditional licensing to a subscription service will negatively impact revenue by approximately $100 million in Q2.

We expect the ongoing business PC refresh cycle to continue, though comparables are challenging as we began to see the benefit of XP end of support in Q2 of last year. We expected the consumer PC market will remain stable with many of the same dynamics we saw in Q1.

In computing and gaming, we expect revenue to be $3.5 billion to $3.8 billion. This range reflects growth in Xbox One consoles over the last year, but a mix shift to lower-priced SKUs announced last June. With the momentum we were seeing with Surface Pro 3, we expect units to grow sequentially.

And so on hardware, we expect revenue to be $2.0 billion to $2.2 billion. This range anticipates both year-over-year and sequential growth in Lumia units, driven by the 500 and 600 series devices. As a result of the ongoing market dynamics and our portfolio rationalization, we expect both volume and ASPs of non-Lumia devices to decline in Q2.

In devices and consumer other, we expect revenue to be $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion, which includes growth from Office 365, the launch of Halo: Master Chief Collection, and continued monetization gains in Bing.

In commercial licensing, we expect revenue to be $10.8 billion to $11 billion, which includes a slight drag from prior year's estimated XP impact. With the accelerated shift to our cloud services, we expect commercial other revenue to be $2.5 billion to $2.6 billion. Overall, we expect our fundamental strength in our commercial business to continue.

And in corporate, we expect about $300 million of positive revenue impact next quarter as we recognize prior-period deferrals related to bundle offerings. We expect COGS to be $9.5 billion to $9.9 billion, with variability driven by both hardware segments.

We expect second-quarter OpEx to be between $8.6 billion and $8.8 billion. As I mentioned earlier, our Q1 favorability was primarily driven by the timing and our continued prioritization of activities. Therefore, we still expect full-year operating expenses to be $34.2 billion to $34.6 billion, as we remain committed to investing and prioritizing growth areas where we have customer momentum.

Over the remainder of the fiscal year, we expect to incur an additional $500 million of expense related to our restructuring efforts. This results in total charges of roughly $1.6 billion, the high end of the range we provided in July. Separately, we are reducing our anticipated integration expenses down to $100 million per quarter for the remainder of the fiscal year.

As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividend to interest income offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. We expect these items to generally offset one another.

We now expect our full-year tax rate to be between 20% and 22%, including the impact of integration and restructuring. In Q2, we expect CapEx to sequentially increase in support of our growing cloud business.

As you know, we typically see a decline from Q1 to Q2 in our unearned revenue balance. This Q2 we anticipate a slightly higher sequential decline in our non-commercial segments. This is primarily due to the $300 million impact from revenue recognition in corporate that I referenced earlier. We expect commercial unearned to be in line with historical trends, with some of the benefit of our business model transition to annuity offset by FX rate impacts.

In closing, this was another quarter of continued growth and disciplined execution. Across the Company, we're making thoughtful, data-driven decisions to continually assess and prioritize our resources. We're also investing to accelerate momentum in key strategic areas and to capitalize on emerging trends. We are making great progress in reshaping our Company. And I'm encouraged by the opportunities to continue to create long-term shareholder value. And with that, I'll turn it back over to Chris and we can move to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. With that, we'll move to our Q&A. Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Our first question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS. Please proceed with your question.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks, good afternoon. On the commercial revenue continues to grow an impressive double-digit rate. Many of your peers have not been doing quite as well as you have just in the last reported quarter. And Amy, I know you mentioned your confident about this business continuing. I'm curious if you could just maybe underscore what you feel you guys are doing differently than what's happening in the peer group, and underscoring that confidence going forward.

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start. Overall, as what we see is the increasing competitiveness of our products. I think that's really what is reflected in our results. The cloud story I think it's fairly clear at this point the combination of Office 365 as well as the Dynamics CRM in particular, combined with Azure, are driving our cloud growth.

As it turns out, the technology that we build for our cloud is what we incorporate in our server products. In fact our R&D expense is the same expense. And that's made our server products very competitive. And so, again, some of our traditional competitors we are seeing significant share gains across the entire infrastructure line of our server products in particular.

And we've also architected our cloud very differently. We are the only hyper scaled cloud provider that also thinks of our server products as the edge of our cloud. So some of the hybrid capabilities of our servers have increasing attach, and that's also leading to our overall competitiveness as well as modernization in margin. And so those are the trends we see in our numbers; we live in the same macro environment as the rest, but right now, we are confident about our competitiveness driving our results.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Brent. We'll take the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you and congrats on the quarter. Two quick questions relating to cloud. Amy, can you give us a sense of what the revenue run rate for the commercial cloud was this quarter? And Satya, could you give us a little more on the use cases for Azure. Is it more test and dev, or are you seeing most of it being on the production side? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark. As you know we gave our run rate at the end of last quarter at $4.4 billion, and the quotes we've said in our numbers have us on that continued trajectory as we head for Q1. So I think the pace and our accomplishments and share gains remain on a good trendline.

SATYA NADELLA: And as far as the use cases, right now it's actually pretty diversified. We talked pretty extensively about the customer case studies at our cloud events last week, and it turns out that we have ISVs in many cases driving new applications on top of Azure. There are businesses like for example NBC that are reinventing their business models on top of Azure. We have customers using us for true hybrid, if you are deploying for example an SQL Server you can have higher availability using Azure. That's a pretty common deployment, using Azure as the backplane for disaster recovery and high availability.

Dev test for sure is a workload, but at this point I would say we have emerging ISVs, some of the global ISVs building their SaaS applications on top of Azure driving a significant amount of growth. New businesses and new business models emerging on Azure as well as hybrid, which I would say are driving it.

One of the other categories that I see a lot of lately is IOT, and the way we participate just on the Azure side, we obviously participate even with our Windows embedded, but on the cloud side, we are seeing the attach to our emerging machine learning services, as well as advanced analytics, that's another place where we are well-suited for some of the emerging use cases.

MARK MOERDLER: Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Mark. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next question comes the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you guys and a very nice quarter. Perhaps a question for Amy. Really nice gross margin improvements across the board, but you did mention some one-time items. So I was hoping you could help us understand where you're seeing sort of underlying gross margin improvements, particularly if we look at sort of any improvements that you saw on the phone gross margins as well as the improvement we saw in the cloud gross margins. How much of that should we look at as durable on a going-forward basis?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Keith. Let me start with the cloud and then I'll move to your phone question. Overall, in the commercial business, I think we continue to see gross margin improvement, and that is sustainable improvement as opposed to I think what you characterized as some non-recurring things that I had mentioned.

It continues to be improvements in scale, improvements in our infrastructure, improvements in utilization, really strong work across all of our engineering teams here. And so I think our year-over-year improvement as well as sequential improvement and our ability in the overall commercial business to see the gross margins we did as the mix shifts to the cloud, I think we're all quite, quite proud of.

Onto the phone business where I did callout non-recurring items due to the business integration expense. An easier way frankly to think about that, Keith, is our Q4 gross margin and our Q1 gross margin, Q4 was a little depressed is how I would think about it due to some of the restructuring. Q1 is a little bit higher; a more blended rate of those two is probably a better way to think about a go-forward margin. Although when you're transitioning any business and all the hard work that we're doing here to prepare ourselves going forward, I do expect to see some volatility in that number.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. That was very helpful. Thanks very much.

SATYA NADELLA: Just to add one thing that I'll say is it's sort of fits to Mark's question which is the in particular on Azure, we have some commodity workloads, but we also have many differentiated higher-margin workloads. Especially the enterprise mobility suite is what I will callout is a good example of what infrastructure workflow completely in the cloud that has got a very different margin structure. And those are the things that really give us the ability to have good margin structure for our cloud efforts.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. That's great. Thanks very much guys.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Keith. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congrats on another great quarter. Had a question on Office 365. Obviously ya'll continue to create growth, both on a commercial and on the home and personal side. But we also saw just Office commercial products and services continue to grow 5%, so one question for Satya and one for Amy.

Satya, how do you feel right now about just momentum particularly on the commercial side that you're seeing on Office 365 and sort of how you're targeting large enterprises versus SMBs? Then Amy, obviously, you've talked about some cannibalization of end-period revenue from the success of Office 365; wondering if you can help us kind of frame that 5% this quarter on the product and services, and how we should think longer term about the revenue and the profitability there? Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: I'll start and then Amy I'll turn it over to you. Specifically on Office 365, the overall product depth and breath is continuously improving. One of the great benefits of our Office 365 that our customers get to enjoy if that as we innovate and launch new features, they get to use them as soon as we have got them deployed on our cloud. And so that's what's driving both the competitiveness as well as usage of Office 365. And quite honestly, the full consumption of what we built, and which I think in the long run is super important to us and our customers.

But it also turns out some of the server products that we have, as we are seeing increasing adoption of the cloud, we still have as I said very competitive server products. I mentioned a lot of our infrastructure server products, so take something like Lync; it's a fantastic product, it is again gaining share in the marketplace, it's getting deployed in on-premise solutions, so it's the combination that's driving our growth.

The other dimension we are seeing is Office 365 is a cross-platform cloud service. We seen now coverage across all devices. And that leads to customers still using the service even more. So that combination of effects, competitive server products, very competitive cloud service with new features being added all the time, as well as cross-platform, is what's driving our growth.

AMY HOOD: And let me try to take the second part of that question, Phil, which is really sort of the dynamics between our transactional business, the move to the cloud, and how I think about bridging those numbers. Our Office transactional business was down this quarter, and the difference as you said to get to the 5% growth is clearly the growth of Office 365 all up.

The other place that I think always I like to point to in terms of triangulating when I look at the health of the overall transition is renewal rates; our renewal rates are amongst the highest we've had in a Q1. Both our ability to recapture both the contract as well as the revenue and the value and add services is higher than it has been. In addition, we are seeing premium units added more frequently in the cloud than we have on-prem. And those types of mixes you'll see both in a bookings number as well as in the unearned balance growth.

And so while the exact dollars in and out on any given quarter may be difficult I guess to triangulate on, the components I always look to see health I've outlined there specifically in the Office business.

PHIL WINSLOW: Great. Thanks, guys.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Phil. We'll go to the next question, please

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Rick Sherlund with Nomura. Please proceed with your question.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Yes, thanks. I wanted to follow up on Phil's question. I think that Office transitions, our analysis suggests that that's a net benefit from here for you; I'd like to get Amy's comments and thoughts maybe about the transition for the rest of the business. If you've got server and tools, at some point -- I mean it continues to show really terrific growth, at some point I suppose that becomes cannibalized by your cloud business with Azure.

Maybe Satya if you can share how you think that transition, how long, how does it transpire? Any thoughts and should it be net additive to the revenues and operating income as we've seen on the Office side? And maybe if you could talk on Windows as well, it looks like it was OEM down a little bit this quarter, which had been growing. Are we going to see a lower ASPs with these $200 devices coming out this fall?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me talk a little bit about the dynamics you're seeing in particular with our infrastructure servers as well as Azure, because it is actually pretty unique I think to at least our product offering. As I said, our servers have become much more competitive because of the same technology investments that we are making in our cloud, and the use cases that we see in the cloud in many cases happened to be net new workloads. IOT was not driving our server growth traditionally. Mobile backend was not driving our servers traditionally. Machine learning an advanced analytics are areas that we did not participate even in the past, so one of the things that we're seeing is a lot of new use cases of Azure which were really new greenfield territory for us.

And it turns out that the need for more computing, more storage, and more infrastructure server products is much broader than just even the hyper scale public cloud. Because the one thing that is true is that on more devices is that you need backend. And that backend in many cases in regulated industries, with the geo participation we have, it's needed everywhere.

So one of the things that we are in fact very focused on is enabling others to build their own cloud, so our private cloud premium SKU mix is also growing. You'll see that in our results. So at least in the intermediate time frame, we do not see cannibalization. We see more impact of these hybrid private as well is public cloud all being complementary, and of course, being used together to deliver more value to customers and that's where our competitive advantage comes from.

On the Windows side just to finish off, we wanted to make sure that we have competitive Windows ecosystem participation across all price points. So we made some deliberate changes to our business model and that is in fact playing out in the marketplace where we now have very competitive full Windows PCs less than $199 going into this holiday season, and that in fact in Q1 caused the market to expand. That was really by design and so we're happy to see that.

And so on a blended basis of course the ASPs will be different because of the two ranges, but overall that is what our goal is. We want to be able to make sure that we compete on all price points and overall grow the volume.

RICK SHERLUND: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Walter Pritchard with Citi. Please proceed with your question.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks. Satya, I'm wondering if you could talk about your seeing some progress on the cloud gross margins, but you're also investing pretty heavily. And I'm wondering how important it is for you kind of medium to long term to be able to get things like Bing, Xbox Live, and Office 365 running on the same infrastructure as Azure in terms of getting the kind of scale you want and ultimately driving the margins to where you want it to get to. Is that a prerequisite to get to where you'd like those margins to be?

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, I mean it's an absolute prerequisite for us to have our entirety of our cloud infrastructure planned drive scale economics for us. And in fact a lot of the core Azure technology around machine management and data center management comes out of our green efforts. We manage all of the supply chain of all of this as one supply chain, we do the SKU design as one SKU design, we drive cost of both network storage compute down altogether.

In fact, you should think of Azure as the common fabric of all our applications. And you look at even some of our games, like Halo, has significant usage of our cloud, and that's what's really driving some of the economics. I celebrate the fact that we don't have just one first-party workload, because it's very easy for one first-party workload to completely coop if you will the architecture of a cloud.

But in our case we have a very diverse set of workloads. We have Xbox Live, we have Office 365, we have Dynamics, and Bing, and that diversity is what allows us to build in fact for our own needs a cloud architecture that then can meet many more workloads, and that's working pretty well for us.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Got it. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks very much. Will take the next question please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. Thank you so much. Satya, I was wondering if you could share with us given the amazing XP refresh we've seen over the last 12 to 18 months, as you're talking to customers, how do you feel about the corporate PC refresh cycle in calendar 2015?

SATYA NADELLA: I think it will come back to the pre-XP business PC refresh. And so that's what I think Amy's comments also reflected and that's what we expect to have happen in the rest of this fiscal year.

The thing that, Heather, we are focused on is how do we make sure that not only do the incremental value that we have today on Windows 8 gets adopted, there are in fact lots of use cases especially around field devices, mobile workforce, where we are in fact seeing great adoption of Windows 8, but Windows 10 is something that's completely optimized for the enterprise, and across all screen sizes for the mobile worker as well as the desktop and large screens.

Perhaps one of the most unique things about at least our portfolio and our innovation is that we think that it's the mobility of the individual, not the one device, that is important in the enterprise, and that's what we are building towards with great management and great security. And so we're pleased with the early feedback we are getting from the first disclosure of Windows 10, and as well as some of the successes we are having with Windows 8 adoption in the enterprise. But the adoption I think we'll get back to a normal PC refresh in the enterprise.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks Heather. We'll go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Daniel Ives with FBR Capital Markets.

DANIEL IVES, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Satya, what do you think as you move to the cloud and really tried to go into this next phase of growth is the biggest challenge and then maybe the biggest opportunity from just a high-level as we think of Microsoft going into the next stage?

SATYA NADELLA: I mean for us the biggest opportunity is to be able to get into spaces -- I mean, one of the things that I always think about is for all the success we've had in our server business, we were a low-share player, and when I look at the total IT spend of -- that enterprise customers have today, as I said, we've not participated in many, many areas. I'll bring up even the data stack, we have a very good business in SQL Server, we have perhaps the most competitive SQL server product ever in SQL 2014, which is growing nicely.

But if you look at what is secular in terms of growth going forward, it's data, data management in a variety of new ways. So those are the opportunities we want to be able to take advantage of by doing some good work, both in the public cloud as well as with our server product.

The challenge will always remain at the end of the day for us to make sure that we are bringing together unique offers. One of the things that I want us as a team to be very focused on is to bring uniqueness that only Microsoft can bring you to the marketplace. That's why this approach around platforms and reinvention of productivity I believe is what we can do. For sure we want to have creditable competition, but at the same time I think that if you asked anyone at least in our campus whether we deeply get what it means to reinvent productivity, I believe do we get deeply how to take the various constituents from end users, IT, and developers, and harmonize their interests in a very unique way so that enterprises can adopt solutions, we get that deeply.

So to me, staying with that and staying focused on our unique contribution is perhaps both our opportunity and our challenge, and we will obviously index on the opportunity side.

DANIEL IVES: Great job on the quarter, especially relative to your tech peers. Thanks.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Dan. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch. Please proceed with your question.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thank you for taking my question. Satya, I just wanted to get your perspective on the business mix, because clearly you have a very strong and growing consumer footprint especially with Nokia, and then you've got a very solid enterprise backbone. And it feels like the consumer side of the house is pulling away much faster, and obviously got some implications for how you look at the business in terms of margins and how they could potentially inflect some switchers.

If you could just give us your thoughts Satya on how you see the business mix, that would be great. And also wondering, Amy, if you could shed some light on cost controls, and what were the things that specifically the Company engaged in? Because the marketing expenses came in at a nice surprise much lower than we expected. Thank you very much.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Kash. So the way I see the market when we sort of talk about productivity and platforms, we really don't make the big distinction between consumer and enterprise. And when it takes productivity out, we're very focused on dual use.

In fact one of the pieces of data that Amy and I shared was the growth in the consumer subscriptions of Office 365 even sequentially grew by a significant percentage. So therefore, we are seeing good adoption of our productivity services, specifically in the context of this dual use where people want to use it at home and people want to use it at work. And that's where in fact a lot of our R&D investment is, to make that very seamless.

So to me that's how I want to drive. And gaming is the one category we have said that we will invest in it for its own sake and driving enterprise value out of our gaming. There are in fact lots of benefits which come because of technology. In fact, the reason why we are so competitive now in Cortana and speech recognition, which I think is core to productivity, is it first started with Kinect and Xbox.

So we will always have those kind of incidental benefits, but really in gaming we want to have our first-party gaming, Xbox Live console, and as well as PC gaming thrive and drive our incremental value for us, and Minecraft obviously helps in that context. So that's how we'll view the future for how we think about our businesses.

AMY HOOD: And Kash, on the overall operating expense and how we've managed that, in general I don't think about it as controlled using that sense of the word. I think what is perhaps most impressive is that we have managed to continue throughout the quarter whether it's week to week or month to month to look and ask where is the highest ROI we get from our spend.

How can we drive our business forward both in-period, but also for the future. Is just as important for us to balance that. And I think we've done a very good job of picking those places and really investing intentionally and aggressively behind places where we know we're differentiated.

KASH RANGAN: Wonderful. Thank you very much, happy Halloween.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Kash. Operator we'll have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Our last question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks. Question for Amy. Amy, just thinking through your guide by business segment, everything seems roughly in line but for the D&C licensing guide which implies I think a 24% year-over-year decline, and given that that's a 90% gross margin business, I just want to make sure I understand what's happening there.

And I have two questions, I'm wondering if you could help disaggregate how much of that is due to the tough XP related compare versus some other perhaps one-time issues that make for a tough comparison? And then secondly, when in your best judgment do you think that D&C licensing revenue might turn positive? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Great. Karl, thanks for asking that question. It gives me a chance to reiterate how many of those components are that one-time in nature. The first and the largest issue is the end of the Nokia commercial agreement. That's about $650 million that we earned in Q2 of a year ago, that because of the end of the agreement, simply goes way. So I'll start with that point.

The second component relates to the same trend we saw in our IP business that we saw in Q4, in Q1, we're doing and seeing again in Q2. So I would also see that exact same trend line and assessment.

The next component, which is a change, is we have actually launched some of our Office 365 consumer services in Japan, which is a geo that we had not been in historically. That does result in a revenue deferral, and it'll end up an unearned. But that's about $100 million impact that we would not have seen before that.

And so by the time you move all of that out of the comparison group, you really get back to very similar trends in our D&C licensing business that we saw this quarter for what I think are the components you are focused on, which is OEM Pro and OEM non-Pro which we expect to really resemble the results we saw this quarter, and marry, sort of match the PC business dynamics overall.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay. That's very helpful. And if I could sneak in one more, Amy, the $2.9 billion share repurchase feels like an uptick compared to what you've done every quarter. For the last couple of years. Is this sort of a new level that we can expect from Microsoft, maybe just a thought on the pace of the share buyback?

AMY HOOD: Thanks for the question. We are proud of the increase in shareholder return this quarter, and importantly we're focused on how we can continue to do that as a part of our overall long-term shareholder growth.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay. Great.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks Karl and thank you Amy. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Please note that our second-quarter earnings call will be held on Monday, January 26, 2015. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events will be webcast and you can follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. And thank you again for joining us.

AMY HOOD: Thanks everyone.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. Thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141025eaan009vm
  


 HD
 Q4  2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,117 words
   PD
22 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to Microsoft's fourth quarter fiscal year 2014 earnings.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would now like to turn the conference over to your host, Chris Suh, General Manager, Investor Relations for Microsoft. Thank you, Chris. You may begin.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Roya. Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today.

On the call with me are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John [Titov], Deputy General Counsel. On our website www.Microsoft.com/ investor we have posted a slide deck which provides a summary of our financial results, a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures and a table of noted items to aid in understanding our results this quarter.

Additionally, the slide deck contains detailed information regarding the impact of the Nokia devices and services acquisition on our financial results. Our press release is also one website and includes an addendum with additional information about our fourth-quarter performance. Microsoft is reporting the financial performance of the acquired Nokia devices and services business in a new segment called phone hardware.

Additionally, the devices and consumer hardware segment was renamed computing and gaming hardware. The products included in this renamed segment remain the same. Current year information reflects the financial performance of the acquired business beginning on April 25, 2014. Any reference to operating expense includes Research and Development, sales and marketing and general and administrative but excludes integration and restructuring charges.

Please keep in mind that all growth comparisons we make on the call today relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless otherwise specified, all impacted numbers have been adjusted for non-GAAP and noted items which are detailed in our press release and slide deck. We will post the prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission in the transcript and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript on the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 22, 2015.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our form 10-K, form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And with that I will turn the call over to Amy.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, Chris, and good afternoon, everyone. This month is an important time for Microsoft. As a leadership team we are taking bold and decisive action to evolve our organization and culture. This includes difficult steps, but they are necessary to position Microsoft for future growth and industry leadership.

Today we will spend more time talking about the significant changes we are driving. However, let me first start with this quarter's results. After that Satya will talk more about our path forward, and then I will share our financial before we take your questions. As I think about our strong execution this quarter there are three things that stand out to me, significant momentum with our Cloud services, progress in a number of our consumer businesses and continued cost discipline.

Our total fourth-quarter revenue was $23 billion including $2 billion from the phone hardware segment. As you know, our Q4 guidance did not include the impact of the acquisition of Nokia's devices and services business. Excluding that, we grew revenue 10% exceeding the high end of our guidance range. Moving on to earnings-per-share, before the impact of the acquisition and the noted items Chris highlighted earlier, EPS grew 12% to $0.66. These details can be found in the earnings slide deck on our Investor Relations website.

Geographically performance was strong across most markets particularly in North America and Europe. We did, however, see challenging conditions in China where like many other multinationals we are experiencing a weak business environment which we do not expect to change in the near-term. Our Commercial Cloud revenue grew 147% this quarter driven by both Office 365 and Azure. Our Commercial Cloud and all revenue run rate more than doubled this year and now exceeds $4.4 billion.

And with this rapidly growing scale we continue to expand our Cloud gross margins. We saw strong Commercial seat growth across Office 365 particularly with SMB customers. Additionally, we added over 1 million new subscribers to Office 365 Home and Personal, and we ended the quarter with 5.6 million users. Azure has also grown dramatically with storage doubling and compute tripling this year.

Along with increased usage of our core services, over 50% of our Azure customers are now also using higher value services like the Enterprise Mobility Suite which has seen strong adoption since the May launch. We are pleased that our customers are enthusiastically embracing Office 365, Azure, CRM Online and our other Cloud services, especially considering it still early in the Cloud transition.

Each customer has unique deployment needs, and as a result CIOs value the flexibility that our hybrid Cloud offerings provide. You can see this in our Commercial bookings which grew 23% this quarter and our contracted not build balance now exceeds $24 billion. As we previously discussed in FY14, both the quarter and the year presented a large renewal opportunity. Our differentiated value proposition, combined with strong execution kept our renewal rates very high.

In addition to transitioning to the Cloud, our customers continue to invest in premium versions of our on- prem server products like Windows Server, System Center and SQL Server. As a result, our server licensing revenue grew 14% this quarter.

We feel good about the progress we're making with Windows. Developed markets continued to show stability, and we are encouraged by the initial response from OEMs to our new consumer offerings like Windows with Bing. This quarter OEM revenue grew 3% as we saw the Commercial hardware refresh cycle continue. With businesses updating their devices and renewing their commitment to the Windows platform.

XP end of support contributed to the double-digit growth in both Windows Pro and Volume Licensing, so the benefits moderated throughout the quarter. In Bing we continue to see growth in both usage and monetization. This quarter US search query share exceeded 19%, and RPS grew double digits again. As we saw in prior quarters, display revenue remains soft.

In late June we launched Surface Pro 3. While it is still early, sales are outpacing earlier versions of Surface Pro, and we are excited to bring the device to many more markets this summer. During the quarter we reassessed our product road map and decided not to ship a new form factor that was under development. Combined with the transition of production toward our latest Surface offering, we made inventory adjustments which impacted our gross margins.

Also in June we released our new Xbox One offering and were pleased with the response. At E3 we reasserted our focus on games with blockbuster titles and key exclusives coming this holiday. With the progress we are making in channel inventories, the new markets for Xbox One and our exciting game lineup we feel well-positioned heading into the holiday season.

With the closing of the Nokia devices and services acquisition during the quarter, we established a new segment, phone hardware, to provide transparency into the progress we will make as we improve and grow the phone business. This quarter Lumia device sales were primarily driven by good performance in the lower price point 500 and 600 series. Sales of non-Lumia devices were in line with the overall feature phone market dynamics. Our gross margins were impacted by decisions we made to rationalize the device portfolio as well as acquisition related amortization expense.

Across the Company we grew gross margin by $1 billion or 7%. While the faster growing Cloud and hardware businesses impacted our overall Company gross margin percentage, it is important to note we continue to drive margin growth in key areas within improved discipline and business process. In D&C other, revenue from search advertising and subscriptions are driving gross margin growth.

In Commercial other, margins expanded again this quarter benefiting from both improved business scale and data center efficiency in our Cloud services. And we've made key changes to our hardware business which have been discussed by both Satya and Stephen Elop in the past two weeks.

We've also kept our focus on rigorous operating expense discipline. Excluding the addition of about $750 million from NDS, our Q4 operating expense came in at the low end of our guidance. And for the full-year, with disciplined decision-making, we grew revenue 9% before NDS, more than twice as fast operating expense which grew 4%.

Our effective tax rate was higher this quarter. Part of this was due to an adjustment to prior year taxes related to inter-company transfer pricing. Beyond that the increase was driven by the inclusion of NDS results and our changing geographic mix. In Q4 we returned $3.4 billion in cash to shareholders through buybacks and dividends to finish the fiscal year at $15.7 billion, an increase of 28% over the prior year.

With that overview, let me turn it over to Satya to share some thoughts.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Amy. Hello, everyone.

I'm proud of the results we delivered this quarter and across the fiscal year. In Q4 on an operating basis we grew revenue 10% and operating income 12%. We accelerated our Commercial cloud business to a $4.4 billion annual run rate.

And perhaps more importantly, we made bold and disciplined decisions to define our core as a productivity and a platform Company for the mobile first/Cloud first world. Before I get into the investment principles and decisions I want to explain how our focus on productivity and platform leads us to participate in Cloud and mobile markets. Mobility for us goes beyond just devices. While we are certainly focused on building great phones and tablets, we think of mobility more expansively.

We think the opportunity that comes from running our productivity experiences on Windows, iOS and Android device. Office 365 Home and Dynamics SAF offerings are targeted here. We also see great opportunity in simplifying and managing the user experiences spanning multiple devices, ecosystems with our identity management, device management and data security. This is the focus of our Enterprise Mobility Suite.

Similarly when it comes to the Cloud opportunity, we run an app scale public Cloud service and provide service for private and hybrid Clouds. Azure, StorSimple, InMage and our data center additions of server products across Windows server system Center and SQL Server all help us participate in the Cloud growth. Our mobile and Cloud opportunity views informs our decisions on what to build and where to invest. More specifically, we use the following three principles to guide our investments.

First focus investments on the core. Productivity experiences and platform investments will prioritize across engineering sales, marketing as well as M&A.

Second, consolidate overlapping efforts. This means one operating system that covers all screen sizes and consolidated dual use productivity services that cross life and work.

Third, run all businesses in an economically sound way. We will get crystal clear on the core businesses that drive long-term differentiation and the businesses that support them. But those supporting efforts such as MSN, retail stores and hardware we will also ensure disciplined financial execution.

Now let's talk about the specific investments. We will be relentless in our focus on our core digital work and life experiences and the two platforms that support it, the Cloud operating system and the device operating system and hardware.

Everything we do starts with digital work and life experiences to delight dual users. These are users who use technology both at work and in their personal life. This is how we reinvent productivity. Last year we started to take steps in this direction.

Now OneDrive and OneDrive for Business are one team. Outlook and Exchange are one team. Skype and Lync are one team, all focused on those dual user scenarios. We are clear that our experiences are going to be available on all devices.

We have a specific goal for multiple Microsoft applications to be available on every home screen. This is why we brought Office to the iPad, and now their are more than 35 million downloads of Word, Excel, PowerPoint, and OneNote. We believe productivity experiences will go beyond individual applications to deliver ambient intelligence that spans applications. To that end we introduced Cortana, our personal assistant in Windows Phone 8.1.

We also believe that productivity includes group collaboration and business processes within organizations. In February we announced our Power BI Suite to help customers harness the power of big data in order to drive a data culture and greater productivity within their organizations. Power BI Suite enables you to ask natural language questions, do rich visualizations and collaborate around data. Customers are loving it. In the fact, the average monthly users have grown over 130%.

We are pleased to see all of Dynamics growth at 13% for the quarter with the CRM Online nearly doubling. And it is great now to have Dynamics CRM in the Gartner leaders quadrant in both sales and service, the two most relevant areas in the CRM space.

Looking forward in FY15, we are increasingly our investment in R&D and sales for our digital work and life businesses even as we cut total operating expenses. We have a rich road map going forward. Two examples of our innovation are what we are doing with Delve and Skype Translator.

Delve is an Office 365 Cloud-based service that is the first in a new breed of intelligent and social work experiences. Delve will turn enterprise search on its head as information that is relevant to you finds you. Think of this as the Facebook news suite for productivity. Skype translator will break down the language barriers in our communications and impact everything from everyday conversations with friends to education to global business.

Additionally, I'm pleased to see the progress with Bing now more than 19% US query share and strong RPS growth. Going forward we will drive our Bing related investments to contribute to the core digital work and life experiences such as Cortana, SmartSearch, Delve, Power Q&A and many others. We expect Bing to be profitable on a standalone basis in FY16.

Now let's transition to the Cloud OS. Our Cloud OS represents the fastest growing opportunity for Microsoft. Quarter-after-quarter we drive growth and customer adoption.

Our server products benefit from our public Cloud. The fact that we use our servers to run our Cloud makes our server software the most capable enabling others to build and operate their Clouds. This has led to growth in Hyper-V share which is now at 30.6% and has helped grow data center additions to Windows Server and System Center both up more of more than 40% for the year.

We also had another breakout year for SQL Server. With SQL Server 14 we released industrial leading in memory technology across all database workloads of online transaction processing, data warehousing and business intelligence. And we grew our SQL business by more than 19%.

Our Azure business is growing rapidly, and we further accelerated growth last year. We grew our data center footprint into Australia, Brazil, Japan and China while doubling our capacity in existing regions.

In FY14 we also started to see the adoption of our high-value services on top of our base Cloud infrastructure. We announced the Enterprise Mobility Suite, our comprehensive Cloud solution to address the consumerization of IT challenges such as bring your own device and SAF application adoption. EMS brings together identity management, device management and data security into one IT control plane and architecture. The early data from customer adoption for EMS is very encouraging.

We announced the Azure Intelligent System Service, our IOT service in the Cloud that enables organizations to securely connect, manage and capture machine generated data from a variety of sensors and devices. To support these high-value services in Azure, I have prioritized acquisitions such as GreenButton for Big Compute, Cap 10 for mobile backend services and just in the past few weeks InMage for disaster recovery for hybrid Clouds.

In FY15 we'll make investments to drive the strategy forward. We will expand our Azure data center for print and increase capacity in existing regions. We will launch new high-level services including Azure machine learning that currently is in preview. We will expand our hybrid solutions with new services such as StorSimple, InMage as well as our server products all offering Cloud tiering. We will continue to build out the EMS value proposition, and we will expand our sales efforts to drive growth.

Let's transition to our device OS and hardware, the third component of our core. In everything we do with our Windows OS and first party devices, we will light up our digital work and life experiences. We are approaching the Windows OS business with a bold challenge and mindset and pushing both the product and business model forward.

We start with a focus on business customers in FY14. We saw these customers recommit to Windows.

In April we released an update to Windows 8.1. To start we improve the core desktop experience with mouse and keyboard advancement. For enterprises we released Internet Explorer Enterprise Mode and extended our mobile device management capability. With Windows 8.1 update we also lowered the hardware spec required so that OEMs can build tablets and clamshells at lower price points.

And addition we made the decision to evolve the Windows business model. Now Windows licenses are $0 for any OEM building a device less than 9 inches. We also added a low-cost Windows offering with Bing integration for OEM. This new offering combined with lower hardware specs means OEMs will bring a fantastic lineup of value-based Notebooks and tablets to the markets this holiday.

In June we launched Surface Pro 3, the most productive tablet on the market today. The reason it is the most productive tablet on the market is because we thought through the experience end-to-end. For example, one of the things you will notice with Surface Pro 3 is how it excels at note taking. You can jot down your thoughts rapidly just like with a pen and paper.

To make this work in an integrated natural way our developers pulled together one vision to write code that resides in the firmware in the Surface Pro 3's pen, the Windows Shell and its inking support to reduce the parallax error as well as in OneNote. And, as Amy said, we are optimistic given the early signs from the Surface Pro 3's performance in the market.

On phones we saw a good early start to Lumia 630 and 635 as well as Lumia 930 especially in Europe. In the year ahead we are investing in ways that will ensure our device OS and first party hardware aligns to our core.

We will streamline the next version of Windows from three operating systems into one single converged operating system for screens of all sizes. We will unify our stores, commerce and develop a platform to drive a more coherent user experience and a broader developer opportunity. We look forward to sharing more about our next major wave of Windows enhancements in the coming months.

Our approach to first party hardware going forward is clear. At times we will develop new categories that we did with Surface, and we will responsibly make the market for Windows Phone. However, we are not in hardware for hardware's sake. And the first party device portfolio will be aligned to our strategic direction as a productivity and platform company. As I said before, going forward all the devices will be created with an explicit purpose to light up our digital work and life experiences.

Good examples of this today are what we are doing with Surface Pro 3 for note taking and PPI for meetings. You can expect to see this type of innovation in our hardware including phones. Amy will talk more on our plans for disciplined execution around our hardware business going forward.

I want to make a few comments on Xbox. It is important for us to have a core that's thriving. It is equally important to place smart bold bets in other areas where we have the ability to add value and have impact. That's what we are doing with Xbox.

We made the decision to manage Xbox to maximize enterprise value with a focus on gaming. Gaming is the largest digital live category in a mobile first Cloud first world. It is also the place where our past success, a revered brand and passionate fan base present us a special opportunity.

With our decision to specifically focus on gaming, we expect to close Xbox Entertainment Studios and streamline our investments in music and video. We will invest in our core console gaming and Xbox Live with a view towards the broader PC and mobile opportunity.

I hope you can see that we have bold ambitions, and we have made a lot of progress. Also know that we are well underway in evolving our organization and culture to deliver on these bold ambitions.

This includes simplifying how we work and modernizing our engineering processes. In all that we do we will be accountable to our customers, partners and shareholders. Empowering every individual and organization to do more and achieve more in a mobile first Cloud first world is a huge undertaking, and it is one that Microsoft is uniquely qualified to take on and change the world.

Thank you, and with that let me turn it over to Amy to give you more guidance on FY15.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Satya. Before going into detail about our outlook, let me first say that all forward looking information assumes the macroeconomic environment remains stable throughout this coming fiscal year. As Satya detailed, we are taking bold steps to move Microsoft forward with a renewed sense of clarity and alignment.

Our investment plan reflects those changes as we reallocate resources to aggressively drive toward our goals and pursue the highest growth and financial return businesses. Even as we invest for growth, we expect our total operating expense in FY15 to be down from this past year before considering the addition of the Nokia cost structure and integration and restructuring cost. Now let me address phone separately.

In FY14 we recorded about $750 million of operating expense for the phone business for the period post the acquisition. Annualized, this would have been about $4.5 billion. But we are aggressively working to drive synergies across key functions such as development, supply chain and operations as we integrate and right size the business. We expect to realize more than $1 billion in synergies and as result, we will be on a path to reach operating breakeven for the phone business in FY16.

Including phone, we expect operating expense to be between $34.2 billion and $34.6 billion dollars in FY15. In addition to the expense guidance I just provided, and as we announced on July 17, we expect to incur between $1.1 billion and $1.6 billion in restructuring expense. These will be substantially complete in the first half of the fiscal year.

Separately we will also incur about $150 million per quarter in integration cost such as systems work. Similar to this quarter we will continue to report these items in a separate line item in the income statement.

Now let me give our view on the first quarter starting with devices and consumer. In licensing we expect revenue to be $4.1 billion to $4.2 billion. This range reflects an ongoing business PC refresh cycle, headwinds for consumer PCs and a continued moderation of the benefits from the XP end of support.

In computing and gaming hardware, we expect revenue to be $1.7 billion to $2 billion. This range reflects the continuing ramp of Surface Pro 3 and Xbox One as both products are introduced into new markets in Q1. In phone hardware we expect revenue to be $1.9 billion to $2.3 billion as we de-line the device portfolio to our strategy. And in devices and consumer other, we expect revenue to be $1.8 billion to $1.9 billion.

Moving on to Commercial, we expect revenue across our two segments to be $12.0 billion to $12.2 billion. Within this we expect Commercial other revenue of $2.2 billion to $2.3 billion. And in corporate we expect about $300 million of negative impact next quarter.

We expect COGS to be $7.5 billion to $7.9 billion with variability being driven by both hardware segments. We expect first-quarter operating expense excluding integration and restructuring to be between $8.5 billion and $8.7 billion.

As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividends interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. We expect these items to generally offset one another.

We expect our full-year tax rate to be between 21% and 23%. This is in line with the fourth quarter excluding the prior period tax adjustment as the changing mix of our business as well as the impact of the NDS acquisition will continue to influence our tax rate.

Investments in Cloud infrastructure are necessary to support and enable the significant growth and momentum in our Cloud services. In Q1, we expect CapEx to increased sequentially increase sequentially to further support our growth. Similar to FY14, these investments are decided based on the thorough review of demand and capacity plans to ensure that the investments provide an appropriate return on capital. We also remain focused on software driven innovation to increase the utilization and capacity of the capital we deploy. We expect earned revenue to grow in line with normal seasonality.

In closing, Q1 is the start of an incredibly important year for Microsoft. We are making important changes to our organization and culture to enable and empower our people to do their very best work. Mobility in Cloud presented an enormous opportunity, and we are focusing resources on our core so we can capitalize and deliver on the next wave of innovation, growth and a long-term shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn it back over to Chris, and we can move to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. And with that we will move to Q&A. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you very much. I've got two parts to it. The first is, Satya, you've been changing the engineering processes within the Company adding more analytics to the process. How do you see this change impacting both the product and the speed of go to market?

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, two things, Mark. One is the diversity of products that Microsoft has from silicon tape outs to services that we are continuously updating in Azure or Office 365 is a lot more than let's say when we first created that Microsoft engineering system. That was for retail packaged products, so since then a lot has changed, and a lot has evolved.

So, what we are doing is we are in introducing new functions and new skills, design is even more important than it ever was, data analytics as you said is very important to us and they are not outside functions. They are functions that are integral to how we do product development, how we do AB testing, how do we do log analysis on a continuous basis. So, that's the engineering process and culture change that we have ongoing, and in fact a lot of learning from a variety of different teams that's now spreading across a lot of Microsoft.

MARK MOERDLER: Thank you and, Amy, one quick question. We saw a significant acceleration this quarter in Cloud revenue -- I guess Amy or Satya, we saw acceleration in Cloud revenue your year, what -- is this Office for the iPad? Is this Azure? What's driving the acceleration, and how long do you think we can keep this going?

AMY HOOD: Mark, why don't I take it and if Satya wants to add, obviously he should do that. In general I wouldn't point to one product area. It was across Office 365, Azure and even CRM online.

I think some of the important dynamics that you could point to particularly in Office 365, I really think over the course of the year we saw an acceleration in moving the product down the market into increasing what we would call the mid-market and even small business at a pace. And that's a particular place I would tie back to some of the things Satya mentioned in the answer to your first question.

Improvements to analytics, improvements to understanding the use scenarios, improving the product in real-time, understanding trial, ease-of-use, ease of sign-up, all of these things actually can afford us the ability to go to different categories, go to different Geos and to different segments. And in addition I think what you'll see, Mark, as we initially moved many of our customers to Office 365 it came on one workload. I think what we've increasingly seen is our ability to add more work loads and to sell the entirety of the suite through that process.

I also mentioned in Azure our increased ability to sell some of these higher value services. So, while I could speak broadly about all of them, I think I would generally think about the strength as being both completion of our product suite, ability to enter new segments and ability to sell new work loads.

SATYA NADELLA: The only thing I would add is it is the combination of our SaaS offerings like Dynamics and Office 365, our public Cloud offering in Azure, but also our private and hybrid Cloud infrastructure, which also benefits, because they run on our service, the Cloud runs on our service. So it is that combination which makes us both unique and reinforcing, and a best example is what we are doing with Azure after directory.

The fact that someday gets on-boarded to Office 365 means that tenant information is in Azure AD. That fact that the tenant information is in Azure AD is what makes EMS, or our Enterprise Mobility Suite more attractive to a customer managing iOS, Android or Windows devices. That network effect is really now helping us a lot across all of our Cloud efforts.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark.

MARK MOERDLER: Congratulations on the quarter.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Amy, you are taking a very disciplined approach on expenses. Just curious if you can help everyone understand how you are approaching that and your confidence in doing more with less?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent.

Let me actually, I will started, and I think Satya will have some things to add. First of all I will start by saying I wouldn't ascribe the behavior to me. I would ascribe the behavior to senior leadership team and to a group that focused on investing in the core, focused on making trade-offs, focused on really accelerating our growth in key areas.

Our ability to make changes really throughout the second half of this year in particular and as we've led into FY15 is really about a group focused on building and investing in something that can really be even greater than it is today. So, while I would use the word disciplined, I don't think it is about a person, and it shouldn't be. It should be about an environment in which every person here thinks about how they can increase their ROI and accrue to the collective. I think we've actually see the benefits of that in the past few quarters, and I think you'll see it as we head into FY15.

BRENT THILL: You capture it well.

CHRIS SUH: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Thank you for the question and a very nice quarter. I was hoping to talk a little bit about the growth strategy at Nokia. You guys look to cut expenses pretty aggressively there, but this is -- particularly smart phones is a very competitive marketplace. Can you tell us a little bit about the strategies for how you actually start to gain share with Lumia on a going forward basis and maybe give us an idea of what levels of share or what levels of unit volumes are you going to need to hit to get to that breakeven in FY16?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start and Amy can even add. So, overall, we are very focused on I would say thinking about mobility share across the entire Windows family. I already talked about in my remarks about how mobility for us even goes beyond devices, but for this specific question I would even say that we want to think about mobility, not just one form factor of a mobile device, because I think that's where the ultimate prize is.

But that said we are even year-over-year basis seeing increased volume for Lumia. It's coming at the low end in the entry Smartphone market, and we are pleased with it. It's come in many markets we now have over 10%, that's the first market I would say that we need to track country by country. And the key place where we are going to differentiate is looking at productivity scenarios or the digital work in the life scenarios that we can light up on our phone in unique ways.

When I can take my Office Lens app, use the camera on the phone, take a picture of anything and it have it automatically OCR recognized and into OneNote in searchable fashion, that's a unique scenario. What we've done with Surface's PPI shows is us the way that there's a lot more we can do with phones by broadly thinking about productivity, so this is not about just a Word or Excel on your phone, it is about thinking about Cortana and Office Lens and those kinds of scenarios in compelling ways. And that's what at the end of the day is going to drive our differentiation and higher end Lumia phones.

AMY HOOD: And, Keith, to answer your specific question regarding FY16, I think we've made the difficult choices to get the cost base to a place where we can deliver on the exact scenario Satya has outlined, and we do assume that we continue to grow our units through the year and into FY16 in order to get to breakeven.

KEITH WEISS: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hello. Congratulations on a great quarter. I just wanted to dig into Office 365. You put up another quarter of pretty impressive metrics going up to 5.6 million Home Premium users. I think the Commercial side grew, I think it was 98% year-over-year. And, Satya, you talked about some pretty meaningful download numbers as far as on the iPad. I wonder if you can just give us an update on Office 365, how it's doing versus your expectations and what your expectations are over the course of next 12, 18, 24 months as we continue this transition?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Phil.

In terms of versus our expectations, in this quarter it did do better than we expected, and frankly we had quite lofty goals, so I think that is encouraging. I think I talked about some of those key drivers in the prior question.

When I think really about a Home and Personal because we haven't had a chance to talk specifically about the consumer usage, and you referenced Office on the iPad in your question. I think it is really about continuing to make the subscription value whether it is through the Home SKU or the Personal SKU have the most value to a user.

It is about a user having the opportunity to access Office, the world's leading productivity app on the device of their choice, having it light up the very best on Windows devices and having that accrue back to our subscriptions. So I think our ability to execute on that over the past 18 months that we've had these SKUs in market is quite encouraging. I don't really look to Office on the iPad as one item, it is a part of a value proposition that I think we make both in the consumer segment as well as in the Commercial segment.

PHIL WINSLOW: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: I wonder if you could talk about Office for a moment. I'm curious whether you think we've seen the worst for Office here with the consumer fall off. In Office 365 a growth in margins expanding there, just if you can look through the dynamics and give us a sense do you think you're actually have turned the corner there and we've maybe seen the worst in terms of Office growth and margins?

SATYA NADELLA: Rick, let me start qualitatively, in terms of how I view Office, the category, and how it relates to productivity broadly, and then I will have Amy even specifically talk about margins and what we are seeing in terms of I'm assuming Office renewals if that's probably the question. The -- first of all, I believe the category that Office is in, which is productivity bought broadly for people that group as well as organizations is something that we are investing significantly and seeing significant growth in.

On one end you have new things that we are doing like Cortana, this is for individuals on new form factors like the phones where it is not about any single application but an intelligent agent that knows everything about my calendar, everything about my life and tries to help me with my everyday task. On the other end is something like Delve which is a completely new tool that's taking what is enterprise search and making it more like this Facebook news feed where it has a graph of all my artifacts, all my people, all my groups and uses that graph to give me relevant information and discover.

Same thing with Power Q&A and Power BI, it is a part of Office 365. So we have a pretty expensive you of how we look at Office and what it can do. So that's the growth strategy and now specifically on Office renewals --

AMY HOOD: I would say in general I will make two comments. In terms of Office on the consumer side between what we sold on-prem as well as the Home and Personal, we feel quite good with attach continuing to grow and increasing the value prop. So I think that's to address the consumer portion.

On the Commercial portion we actually saw Office grow, as you said, this quarter. I think the broader definition, that Satya spoke to of the Office value prop, and we continued to see Office renewed in our enterprise agreement. So in general I think I feel like we are in a growth phase for that franchise.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Rick.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hello, thanks.

Satya, wanted to ask you about two statements that you've made, one around responsibly making the market for Windows Phone just following on Keith's question here. It is a really competitive market. It feels like ultimately you need to be a very, very meaningful share player in that market to have value for a developer to leverage the universal apps that you are talking about in terms of presentations you've given at Build and so forth.

And I'm trying to understand how you can do both of those things at once, and in terms of responsibly making the market for Windows Phone, it feels difficult given your nearest competitors there are doing things that you might argue are irresponsible in terms of making their market given the fact that they monetize it in different ways.

SATYA NADELLA: Yes, one of the beauties of Universal Windows apps is it aggregates for the first time for us all of our Windows volume. The fact that even what is an app that runs with a mouse and keyboard on the desktop can be in the store, and you can have the same app run in a touch first, a mobile first way, gives the developers the entire volume of Windows which is 300 million plus units as opposed to just 4% our share of mobile in the US or 10% in some countries.

So that's really the reason why we are actively making sure that Universal Windows apps is available and developers are taking advantage of it. We have great tooling, because that's the way we are going to be able to create the broadest opportunity to your very point about developers getting an ROI for building to Windows. So that's how I think we will do it in a responsible way.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thank you so much for your time.

I wanted to ask a question about, Satya, about your comment about combining the next version of Windows into one for all devices. And just wondering if you look out, you've got different SKU segmentations right now, you've got enterprise, you've got consumer less than 9 inches for free. The offering that you mentioned earlier that you recently announced, how do we think about when you come out with this one version for all devices, how do you see this changing the go to market and also the traditional SKU segmentation and pricing that we've seen in the past?

SATYA NADELLA: My statement, Heather, was more to do with just even the engineering approach. The reality is that we actually did not have one Windows, we had multiple Windows operating systems inside of Microsoft. We had one for phone, one for tablets and PCs, one for Xbox, one for even embedded, so we had many, many of these efforts. So, now we have one team with a layered architecture that enables us to in fact [go on] for developers, bring that collective opportunity with one store, one commerce system, one discoverability mechanism. It also allows us to scale the UI across all screen sizes.

It allows us to create this notion of Universal Windows apps and bring coherence there. So, that's what more I was referencing, and our SKU strategy will remain by segment. We will have multiple SKUs for enterprises, we will have for OEM, we will have for end users. And so we will be disclosing and talking about our SKUs as we get further along, but this -- my statement was more to do with how we are bringing teams together to approach Windows as one equal system, very differently than we ourselves have done in the past.

HEATHER BELLINI: Excellent, thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Heather. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Satya, you made comments about harmonizing some of the different products across consumer and enterprise, and I was curious what your approach is to viewing your different hardware offerings both in phone and with Surface, how your go to market may change around that. And also since you decided to make the operating system for sub nine inch devices free, how you see the value proposition and your ability to monetize that user base evolving over time?

SATYA NADELLA: The statement I made about bringing together our productivity applications across work and life is to really reflect this notion of dual use, because when I think about productivity, it doesn't separate out what I use as a tool for communication with my family and what I use to collaborate at work. So that's why having this one team that thinks about Outlook.com as well as Exchange helps us think about those dual use.

Same thing with Files and OneDrive and OneDrive for Business, because we want to have the software have the smarts about separating out the state, caring about IT control and data protection while me as an end-user get to have the experiences that I want. That's how we are thinking about harmonizing those digital life and work experiences.

On the hardware side, we will continue to build hardware that fits with these experiences. If I understand your question right which is how will we differentiate our first party hardware? We will build first party hardware that's creating categories. A good example is what we've done with Surface Pro 3 and in other places where we have really changed the Windows business model to encourage a plethora of OEMs to build great hardware, and we are seeing that.

In fact in this holiday season I think you will see a lot of value Notebooks, you will see clamshells, so we will have the full price range of our hardware offering enabled by this new Windows business model. And I think the last part was how will we monetize? Of course we will have a combination, will have our OEM monetization, and some of these new business models are about monetizing on the backend with Bing integration as well as our services attach. And that is reason fundamentally why we have these $0 priced Windows SKUs today.

ED MAGUIRE: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Karl Keirstead, Deutsche Bank.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I wouldn't mind focusing for a moment on the enterprise server-side. That's where at least for me much of the upside came. We haven't seen server product revenue growth in the mid-teens in a while, total Microsoft bookings, 20% ex-Nokia, haven't seen that in ages. Perhaps the answer to these questions are related, but what's happening with those two numbers to drive the upside.

I'm sure a little bit came with Azure being strong, but that's relatively small. So clearly there was an inflection up on the on-prem server tools business. Maybe part of it was renewal rates, and if that's the answer how much room do we have to go on that? Thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: I will start, and Amy, you can add.

Overall we've had a major revamp of our server lineup, SQL 14 being the recent one which we launched in the last quarter. It's the strength of our server products. This is that phenomena where servers have becoming -- become much more competitive. Windows server for virtualization and private class, system center for data center management. SQL for all the in memory workload capabilities it has, and BI.

All of that has really benefited from us running our own Cloud, pushing our own servers to run these apps scale services. With that being in place and these refreshers, we are seeing increased invest -- investment and interest on our infrastructure when it comes to our data centers. One of the things is, as the public Cloud is growing, we in fact don't see it at least for now as a zero sub.

In fact we see growth, especially with the virtualization rates, because people -- overall the number of applications on mobile side are growing. All of those mobile applications drive back end compute and storage. And that back end compute storage some of it goes into the public Cloud, but a lot of it even goes into the data center. And that's where we have a very good price-performance equation and a TCO equation, and so we are been pretty competitive and grabbing share. And the Hyper-V share is a good example of that.

AMY HOOD: I think Karl, you are right when you triangulate the data around our strong trend line on unearned and even Commercial bookings grows at 23%, and the numbers you'd exactly talked about, it really was a combination of Office 365 Cloud growth, as well as we talked about the benefits of our hybrid offerings. A lot of on-prem server growth as well this quarter.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay, thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Karl.

OPERATOR: Daniel Ives, FBR Capital.

JIM WARREN, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Great, thanks. This is Jim Warren for Dan Ives. Just can you talk a little bit about the geographies? You mentioned the North America and Europe strength and maybe just talk a little more about the dynamics there and in terms of where you are seeing this strength, Cloud or PC, et cetera?

Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Jim.

Actually I would say the strength across the products isn't geographically specific. So it is a relatively consistent. We've seen Cloud growth globally. We've seen on-prem server growth globally. In general, the products get launched first and often in the US, so it tends to be the most mature of some of those transitional markets. But I think it general my geographic comments are far more holistic than they are product specific.

JIM WARREN: Thanks very much.

CHRIS SUH: Operator, we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Stifel.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: How are you? Thanks very much.

Satya, you guys did a very good job this year of returning capital to shareholders: over $15 billion. Can you give us some sense philosophically if you see a lot of opportunity for additional repurchase/dividend activity, or is this a level you are fairly comfortable with?

Thanks.

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for the question.

Overall my comments remain the same. I answered this even in the last call which is the approach we have taken is a balanced approach, and a thoughtful approach. We are going to look at our own need to invest in order to drive growth in the opportunities we see. I think today's conversation and results show how some of the bets we've made with our Cloud are paying off, and it is great to see that momentum. And it is in fact a pretty broad-based momentum across Azure, Office 365 and Amy mentioned it pretty briefly: even CRM online growth.

So to me that remains the core which is being able to place our capital to drive organic growth and for the long-term health of this Company. That said, we will have a balanced approach in terms of both share buyback, as well as dividends. That's the approach we have taken over taking over the last multiple years. And that will be the same thoughtful process that I expect us to continue with going into the next fiscal and beyond.

BRAD REBACK: Great, thanks very much.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brad.

CHRIS SUH: Okay. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to see many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast, and you can follow our comments at our Investor Relations website. Please contact us if you need any additional details. Thanks again for joining us today.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140724ea7m006bt
  


 HD
 Q3  2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,133 words
   PD
24 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the third-quarter 2014 Microsoft Corporation earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, please proceed.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, operator. Good afternoon, and thank you for joining us today. On the call with me today are Satya Nadella, Chief Executive Officer; Amy Hood, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our web site, Microsoft.com/investor, we have posted a document summarizing our quarterly results, as well as a slide deck which is intended to follow the quarterly results document, and provide a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Please keep in mind that all growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless otherwise specified, all impacted numbers have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of last year's revenue deferrals and recognition, related to the Windows upgrade offer, the Office deferral, the video game deferral, and the expense related to the non tax deductible European Commission fine.

As a reminder, in our segment reporting structure, we have consolidated revenue adjustments of this nature into corporate and other, to provide better comparability of operating results. We will post this call's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and in any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investors relations web site until April 24, 2015.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ, because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Satya.

SATYA NADELLA, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Chris. It's great to have the opportunity to join today's call. From my first day, I have said I'm committed to an ongoing dialogue with investors. Joining these investor calls going forward is going to be a big part of that, and I'm enthusiastic about today's call.

It's been an incredibly busy couple of months. In addition to executing on our plan and announcing new products and services, I have spent a lot of time gathering feedback and exchanging ideas with customers, partners, employees, and investors. It is important and valuable to see the Company with a fresh perspective, to get grounded both on our current realities and future opportunities.

As I've told our employees, our industry does not respect tradition, it only respects innovation. This applies to us and everyone else.

When I think about our industry over the next five, ten years, I see a world where computing is more ubiquitous, and all experiences are powered by ambient intelligence. Silicon hardware systems and software will co-evolve together, and give birth to a variety of new form factors.

Nearly everything we do will become more digitized. Our interactions with other people, with machines, and between machines. The ability to reason over and draw insights from everything that's being digitized will improve the fidelity of our daily experiences and interactions.

This is the mobile-first and cloud-first world. It's a rich canvas for innovation, and a great growth opportunity for Microsoft across all our customer segments. To thrive in this world, we will continue to zero in on the things customers really value, and Microsoft can uniquely deliver.

We want to build products that people love to use, and as a result, you'll see us increasingly focus on usage as the leading indicator of long-term success. To that end, we're already making progress.

Amy will provide additional detail, but I wanted to say a few words about the quarter itself. Today's results demonstrate the breadth and strength of our overall business. We saw strong momentum in Cloud services, our commercial Cloud business more than doubled year-over-year with Office 365 and Azure ar both performing extremely well.

Business customers continued to make Windows their overwhelming platform of choice with solid growth both in Windows Pro and Windows volume licensing revenues. We saw continued improvement in search, with our US search share growing to 18.6%, and search revenue increasing by 38%.

Bing continues to deliver platform capabilities across our products. One recent example of this is the recently-announced Cortana virtual assistant for Windows Phone. And very importantly, across all our businesses, we continue to have a rigorous focus on execution and cost discipline, resulting in solid revenue and earnings per share.

I sum up this quarter in two words, execution and transition. We delivered solid financial results, and we took several steps to reorient Microsoft. In recent weeks, we talked about how we're advancing Office, Windows and our data platform, and how we think holistically about the constituencies we serve, IT, developers and the people at the center in the mobile-first cloud first world.

We will continue to invest in our cloud capabilities, including Office 365 and Azure in the fast-growing SaaS and Cloud platform markets. We are committed to ensuring that our cloud services are available across all device platforms that people use. We're delivering a cloud for everyone on every device.

At the same time, we have bold plans to move Windows forward. We're investing and innovating in every dimension from form factor, to software experiences, to price.

Windows Platform is unique in how it brings together consistent end user experiences across small to large screens, broadest platform opportunity for developers, and control and assurance for IT. And with the addition of Nokia's talented people and their depth in mobile technologies, we will enhance our device capabilities.

The past 2.5 months have been a period of significant change at Microsoft, but also a period of nailing the basics, and delivering against our product and financial plans. In the months ahead, we will continue to intensely be focused on two things: rock solid execution, and pivoting the Company towards the future. We will continue to push hard and move quickly, and you will see the proof of that, month after month, in the products and services we build for the mobile-first cloud-first world.

What you can expect of Microsoft is courage in the face of reality, we will approach our future with a challenger mindset, we will be bolder in our innovation, we will be accountable to our customers, partners and shareholders. And with that, I'll turn it over to Amy to go further into the details of the quarter, and we'll be happy to take your questions after that.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Satya, and good afternoon, everyone. Let me start with a few things I think are notable this quarter, then I'll give our outlook, before moving onto Q&A.

We had a very good third quarter, with solid results across our businesses, and strong momentum in our most strategic areas. At the same time, we remain focused and disciplined in our spending. Total revenue was $20.4 billion, up 8%, and earnings per share grew 5%.

We had outstanding momentum and results in our cloud services. As Satya mentioned, commercial cloud revenue more than doubled again this quarter. Office 365 is now on an annual revenue run rate of $2.5 billion, and Azure revenue grew over 150%, driven by both new customers and increased usage.

In our Office 365 Home service, we added nearly 1 million new users this quarter, and now have over 4.4 million subscribers, they continued to enhance its value competition with new features, premium services, and cross-platform functionality. As we cross the one-year anniversary since launch, we are pleased with the renewal rates we are experiencing thus far.

With Bing, we made clear progress again this quarter. We grew our US share and improved RPS significantly. Display revenue, related to portal and e-mail, declined, while we saw ad revenue growth in products like Skype and Xbox. Importantly, we are innovating, while expanding our cloud gross margins through both improved scale and continuous engineering efforts to drive efficiency.

Businesses are clearly expressing their overwhelming preference for Windows. Windows Pro revenue grew 19%, driven by growth in business PCs.

Mix shift to developed markets, where attach is higher, continued strength in the enterprise, and an increased mix of Pro in small and medium businesses. Windows volume licensing also had a solid 11% revenue growth. Windows XP end of support contributed in part to this growth we saw this quarter, as did a general hardware refresh.

Our commercial results reflect ongoing strength, and we again outperformed the enterprise IT market. Customer movement from transactional purchasing to subscription and multi-year agreements was better than our expectations. Therefore, our commercial unearned revenue grew 12% this quarter, which was above our expectations, and our contracted not billed balance exceeded $22 billion.

We had double-digit growth in SQL, Systems Center, Windows Server Premium, and Lync. Clearly, our value proposition and product road map is resonating.

Xbox One has sold in over 5 million units since launch, and engagement has been high, with users spending nearly 5 hours per day on their console. We will continue to extend the unique entertainment value proposition of Xbox One, particularly in markets outside of the US, where some services aren't as mature.

Xbox 360 sales exceeded our expectations this quarter, and across the platform, Xbox Live members continued to embrace the service, with transactional revenue growing 17%. We do expect to work through some inventory in Q4.

We continued to enhance the value proposition of Surface through both hardware and software innovations, which makes Surface it one of the best, high-value productivity devices available. This quarter, the mix of sales moved to our second generation and Pro devices, and this change had a positive impact on gross margin.

Now, let's turn to operating expenses. As a result of our ongoing prioritization efforts, OpEx was favorable to what we expected in January. Across the company, we are focused on continually aligning our resources to our top priorities, which includes investing in the next wave of innovation for our customers.

We are devoting resources to our sales team and partner ecosystem, to ensure they are positioned for the migration to cloud services. And finally, our agility is also improving, as planned marketing spend was redeployed from Q3 to Q4, in support of a commercial cloud campaign.

With that summary of Q3 results, I would like to talk about our outlook. Given the Nokia devices and services transaction is closing tomorrow, the guidance I will walk through next excludes any related impact.

Let's start with devices and consumer. In licensing, we expect revenue to be $4.1 billion to $4.3 billion. This range reflects an expectation that the benefits of XP end of support will moderate.

In hardware, we expect revenue to be $1.3 billion to $1.5 billion, in what is a seasonally slower hardware quarter. This number also reflects channel inventory draw down for Xbox consoles.

In devices and consumer other, we expect revenue to be about $1.9 billion. We expect to see continued growth in Office 365 Home and Bing, as we drive additional usage.

Moving on to commercial. We expect revenue across our two segments to be $13.1 billion to $13.3 billion. Within this, we expect commercial other revenue to be about $2.1 billion, on the strength of the transition to our cloud.

And in corporate, we expect to defer revenue of about $100 million. We expect COGS to be $5.7 billion to $5.8 billion, with variability primarily due to hardware.

And moving onto operating expenses. For the fourth quarter, we expect OpEx to be $8.4 billion to $8.6 billion, when adjusting for the prior-year European Commission fine.

This represents full-year operating expense growth of about 4%. This is on the low end of our original guidance that we provided a year ago of 4% to 6%, as we invested in R&D and sales efforts, while rationalizing our marketing spend.

As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense, and the net cost of hedging. We expect these items to generally offset each other.

We expect a higher tax rate in Q4, and the full year tax rate to be between 18% and 20%. We expect capital expenditure to be about $1.5 billion, as we build out our cloud infrastructure.

We are concentrating on hardware, software, and data center optimization and supply chain efficiencies to maximize the benefits of our cloud scale. The benefits of this work are realized in improving gross margins. We expect unearned revenue to grow in line with normal seasonality.

Now, let me share some thoughts regarding Nokia devices and services. The acquisition will close tomorrow, which is about four months later than the deal economics we outlined in September assumed. Since then, the Nokia business results have also changed.

We are focused on the transition from planning to implementation, which accelerates with the deal closing tomorrow. Given this is a complex body of work that will take time, we do not intend to update our financial guidance for any Nokia impact during the quarter. However, I want to share the following to help as you update your models.

Under the existing commercial agreement between Microsoft and Nokia, license sales and platform payments are reported in the D&C licensing segment. Once the acquisition closes, results for Nokia devices and services will be reported in the D&C hardware segment. For Q4, we will clearly show the impact of the ending of the commercial agreement, Nokia's ongoing operations, and any one-time integration and severance cost, and we remain committed to achieving annual cost synergy targets of at least $600 million within 18 months of close.

Now looking toward FY15. Satya and I, along with the rest of the senior leadership team, are working together to solidify our plans for the year ahead. Our goals are clear:

Get more out of the tremendous resources we have available. Drive innovation and products that people love to use. And execute in areas where Microsoft can uniquely succeed is in today's mobile-first cloud-first world. And with that, let me turn it back over to Chris, and we can move to Q&A.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks Amy, and with that, we'll move to Q&A. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS. Please proceed with your question.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Question for Satya, just if you could reflect on your initial time as CEO, and maybe give everyone a sense of how you prioritize your near-term objectives here in the next several quarters? That would be helpful, thank you.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you, Brent. The first ten weeks or so have been extremely energizing, and as I said, for me, what was important was to reach out, talk to lots of different constituents and relearn the place, and see it for the first time, and just get a different fresh perspective. Even in spite of having spent the 22 years here, it's been fascinating to get that fresh perspective.

And the way I look at is, even from day one, I have had this deep conviction that our vision is about going boldly into this mobile-first cloud-first world, and we feel that we are well on our way, and if there's anything that I want to do, it is how do we make sure we remain focused on it, with every device launch, with every service launch, we keep coming back and reinforcing that vision. Because at the end of the day, it's the purpose with which we approach the vision, and the execution behind it, which is what counts. And to me, being able to think about that deeply, what does it mean for us culturally, what does it mean for us in terms of our plans.

And just getting behind it, leaning into it as an entire company, is what's my priority, and that's what I obsess about. That's what I focus about.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Brent. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler, with Sanford Bernstein. Please proceed with your question.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you very much. Satya, welcome on board, and thanks for joining the call. If you don't mind, I'm going to ask an overall question either of Amy or of Satya.

Looking at the commercial license business, how much of the shrinkage year-over-year in commercial license is driven by the move of traditional license players from license or -- licensed paying customers, from license to the cloud? How much is related to guys moving from software assurance, how much from license? Can you give any color in there?

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark for that question. Why don't I take that one. Overall, in commercial licensing, I often talk, as you know, about the commercial business all up, mostly because I think some of the core dynamics really reinforce that we see a bit of what you're talking about, which is that renewal rates have remained high and in line, our ability to recapture revenue in those contracts remains strong, and our ability to attach cloud products has grown. And so what we have seen this quarter, and what you see even in the commercial licensing line itself is that continued switch.

And in fact, it was faster this quarter, than we had thought. Really, when you look at our commercial unearned revenue, along with the C&B balance that we talked about last quarter. We had so many billings at the end of last quarter, when you really normalize for those end of quarter billings, bookings were also better than we had expected in terms of the annuity stream.

So I think both a transition to long-term agreements is encouraging, the addition of premium product, the addition of new product. As well as the transition to a cloud, is really core to thinking about the health of the segment all up.

MARK MOERDLER: Thank you, I appreciate it.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Mark.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley. Please proceed with your question.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: And Satya, again, thank you for joining the call. It's great to have your views and inputs here. One of the questions I get most often from investors is trying to understand sort of how you're going to approach the role, and what you're doing initially, in terms of, is there a strategic review that's going on?

Are you reviewing the businesses, and should we expect any big changes in the strategy of Microsoft? So I'm going to pose that question to you, in terms of over the next couple of weeks, months, quarters, even, is there anything of a strategic review going on? Is there any big changes in the Microsoft strategy that we should be expecting from that review?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Keith for the question. The frame work I have in terms of how I'm approaching my job, and how we as a leadership team, and as a Company, are going to execute and plan, because one of the things that I strongly believe in, is you're planning on a continuous basis, you're executing on a continuous basis, it's not episodic if you will.

The only way we're going to succeed here is by having this notion that you're planning all the time, and you're also making the changes to your plan, based on the changed circumstances. And I think that's the way to run a company like ours, in a marketplace that's as dynamic as ours.

With that said, I start with, though, a vision that's very grounded on what the future opportunity is. So this mobile-first cloud-first thing is a pretty deep thing for us.

When we say mobile-first, in fact what we mean by that is mobility first. We think about users and their experiences, spanning a variety of devices, so it's not about any one form factor that may have some share position today, but as we look to the future, what are the set of experiences across devices, some ours and some not ours, that we can power through experiences that we can create uniquely.

So that notion of having a central focus and a central purpose is what I think we have already signaled, and we are well on our way to execute on it. Now, you also need to continuously build some new capability.

When you think about mobility first, that means you need to have a really deep understanding of all the mobile scenarios for everything from how communications happen, how meetings occur, and those require us to build new capability. We'll do some of this organically, some of it inorganically.

A good example of this is what we have done with Nokia. So we will, obviously we're looking toward to that team joining us, building on the capability. And then execution, even in the last three weeks or so, we have announced a bunch of things, where we talked about this one cloud for everyone, and every device.

We talked about how our data platform is going to enable this data culture, which is in fact fundamentally changing how Microsoft itself works. We also talked about what it means to think about Windows, especially with the launch of this universal Windows application model, how different it is now to think about Windows as one family, which was not true before, but now we have a very different way to think about it. And so we are well on our way to execute on it.

But to your core question of are we going to review, we're all the time reviewing. And one of the things that I feel as a leadership team, we have really picked up the pace on asking the hard questions, what is the believability of any one of our plans, and pushing ourselves.

Because at the end of the day, to me, I want to be very accountable to you all, to our customers, to our partners, as a team, by executing on our plans very well. Because at the end of the day, that's what matters. So that at least gives you a framework for how we're approaching it.

KEITH WEISS: Excellent. Thank you very much for that.

AMY HOOD: Thanks Keith.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please operator.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Rick Sherlund with Nomura. Please proceed with your question.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: First, Satya, on Platform-as-a-Service, I'm kind of curious how aggressively you plan to maybe change your business model to a subscription model and drive, like adobe did, less upfront revenue, more encouraging subscription and cloud-based, and whether we should begin to anticipate what it might look like to Microsoft as you make this transition to more of a subscription business. I'm just not sure what the margins are on your cloud business and as you transition, most SaaS companies have 70%, 80% gross margins, I'm not real sure where you are on your cloud businesses today. Do we think this is going to be a smooth transition, or might we expect it to be a little more disruptive, as you gain more and more traction on a subscription and cloud basis?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks for the question, I'll start and maybe Amy you want to add. The way I look at it, Rick, we're well on our way to making that transition, in terms of moving from pure licenses to long-term contracts, and as well as subscription business model.

So when you talked about Platform-as-a-Service, if you look at our commercial cloud, it's made up of the platform itself, which is Azure. We also have a SaaS business in Office 365. Now, one of the things that we want to make sure we look at is each of the constituent parts, because the margin profile on each one of these things is going to be different.

The infrastructure elements, right now, in particular, is going to have different economics versus some of the per-user applications in a SaaS mode have. It's the blending of all of that, that matters, and the growth of that matters to us the most in this time, where I think there's just a couple of us really playing in this market.

I mean, this is gold rush time in some sense of being able to capitalize on the opportunity, and when it comes to that, we have some of the best, the broadest SaaS solution and the broadest platform solution. That combination of those assets doesn't come often. So what we are very focused on is how do we make sure we get our customers aggressively into this, having them use our service, be successful with it, and then there will be a blended set of margins across even just our cloud. And what matters to me in the long run is the magnitude of profit we generate, given a lot of categories are going to be merged as this transition happens, and we have to be able to actively participate in it, and drive profit growth.

AMY HOOD: And let me add a bit, Rick. I think, specifically as you think about the transitions, and where you'll see it, first, I would say year-over-year, we had flat to improving gross margins in all segments but hardware, where we had a mix shift to the Xbox console, which from a business model perspective, obviously drives gross margin decline.

With that being said, within the Office 365 business I start from the fact and a principle, which is having a user, whether they be in the consumer or in the enterprise, have access to our most recent, most innovative, most secure product, which is always going to be for us, probably the one born in the cloud, will be a driver of satisfaction, and a driver of usage. Those two things lead to revenue.

You're already seeing that transition in the enterprise, where we already sold that way. The transition is quite easy, from an economic standpoint. In the transactional business, you saw the impact of it this quarter.

We had a bigger mix shift to annuity, more went on the balance sheet. We still had strong growth, but you do see the impact interquarter.

And in the consumer side of the business, which you also referenced with Adobe, I think we have just launched another SKU in addition to Home, called Personal, as we continue to drive consumer usage that way. The launch of Office on the iPad is an example of where we will add the most value, which is in the subscription.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you Rick. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs. Please proceed with your question.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, and Satya, I'll echo everybody's thoughts that it's great to have you on the call, and hear your perspective. I was wondering if you could share with us the decision recently to offer Windows for free for sub-9-inch devices, and how you think this impacts your share in that arena? And also, how should we think about Windows pricing, given your comment about how Windows is going to play in different market segmentations, how do we see Windows pricing evolving, if at all, for other types of form factors over time?

SATYA NADELLA: Overall, first of all, thanks Heather for the question. Overall, the way I want us to look at Windows going forward is, what does it mean to have the broadest device family and ecosystem.

Because at the end of the day, it's about the users and developer opportunity we create for the entirety of the family, that's going to define the health of the ecosystem. So to me, it matters that we approach the various segments that we now participate with Windows, because that's what has happened. Fundamentally, we participated in the PC market.

Now we are in a market that's much bigger than the PC market. We continue to have healthy share, healthy pricing, and in fact, growth, as we mentioned, in the enterprise adoption of Windows.

And that, we plan to in fact add more value, more management, more security, especially as things are changing in those segments. Given BYOD and software security issues, we want to be able to reinforce that core value.

But then, when it comes to new opportunities from wearables to Internet of things, we want to be able to participate in all of this, with our Windows offering. With our tools around it, and we want to be able to price by category.

That's effectively what we did. We looked at what it made sense for us to do on tablets and phones below 9 inches, and we felt the price there needed to be changed. We have monetization vehicles on the back end for those, and that's how we're going to approach each one of these opportunities.

Because in a world of ubiquitous computing, we want Windows to be ubiquitous. That doesn't mean it's one price, one business model for all of that, and it's actually a market expansion opportunity, and that's the way we want to go execute on it.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of John DiFucci with JPMorgan. Please proceed with your question.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: I'm going to give Amy a question here for numbers. Amy, we see sales and marketing expense declined 7% year-over-year in this quarter. Can you remind us if there's anything unique last year, or is this just better controls?

And along these same lines, free cash flow, excluding acquisitions grew 2%, which is a bit of a surprise, given the direction the Company is going, and the first time in seven quarters we have actually seen growth in free cash flow. Can you tell us how we should be thinking about this going forward?

AMY HOOD: Thanks John, I was getting lonely. I didn't have any questions, so I appreciate it.

Let me start with your first one, which was, is there any sort of unique thing that resulted in that comparable in sales and marketing? We did have more launch expense going on a year ago, but we also focused on rationalizing and focusing our marketing dollars in quarter. I think it's a combination of both, and I would probably say more of the latter, which is really thinking and prioritizing more effectively throughout the year, to earn the highest ROI on the dollars we're spending.

We also did invest in sales year-over-year. Most of that is specifically around marketing, so I want to make sure that you understand that where we see opportunity, we're investing in our selling engine to get it, which is, I think, an important caveat to make sure is clear, when you see year-over-year sales and marketing decline.

The second half of that, in terms of cash flow, I think, as we remain focused on prioritizing, and really thinking about the return on the dollars we spend, you did see also, as I talked about earlier, margins increase year-over-year. All of that has had a positive impact on cash flow. Thanks, John.

JOHN DIFUCCI: In going forward, how should we be thinking about that, just continued discipline, I guess, around expenses, but also investment where it's needed?

AMY HOOD: Yes. When we talked at the end about how I think about 2015, maybe it's better said is how we think about every day, which is what can we do today, this week, this month, to better invest behind places where we feel like we are uniquely capable of success, and not being afraid to make those changes. And finding the agility and the empowerment here to do those things is incredibly important.

And I would say, culturally, Satya mentioned about being more data-driven. I think in addition to the day-to-day, which was more focused on customers, I think really it's a cultural statement about how we are going to operate more internally, as well.

And so maybe that's the most forward-looking comment I could tell you, which is that being empowered to look weekly, monthly, and see how we can get better, and better, and better. And I think that's actually driven a lot of excitement around here.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Okay. Great. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, John. We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse. Please proceed with your question.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Congratulations on a great quarter, and Satya, great to have you on the call, as well. I wanted to focus in on Office 365. If you compare this quarter to last quarter, you added 1.1 Home Premium users, last quarter, I think it was 500,000. In September, you talked about a run rate of I think $1.5 billion, now you're at $2.5 billion.

I wonder if you can talk about the momentum that you're seeing in Office 365 and maybe give us a few thoughts on business versus the home/consumer side of that. And then, Amy, when you think about Office 365, how do you think about the difference in lifetime value of an Office 365 customer versus a traditional Office user?

SATYA NADELLA: Let me start, and then Amy, you should definitely add on to it. Office 365, I'm really, really excited about what's happening there, which is to me, this is the core engine that's driving a lot of our Cloud adoption, and you see it in the numbers, and Amy will talk more about the numbers.

But pne of the fundamental things it's also doing is it's actually a SaaS application and it's also an architecture for enterprises. And one of the most thrilling things we announced when we talked about the cloud for everyone and every device, and we talked about Office 365 having now iPad apps, we also launched something called the Enterprise Mobility Suite, which is perhaps one of the most strategic things during that day that we announced, which was that we now have a consistent and key platform for identity management.

Which by the way, gets bootstrapped every time Office 365 users sign up, device management, and data protection. Which is really what every enterprise customer needs in a mobile-first world, in a world where you have SaaS application adoption, and you have BYOD or bring your own devices happening.

So to me, the Office 365 growth is in fact driving our enterprise infrastructure growth, which is driving Azure growth, and that cycle to me is most exciting. So that is one of the reasons I want to keep indexing on the usage of all of this, and the growth numbers you see is a reflection of that.

AMY HOOD: And Phil, specifically to some of your, how do we think about the lifetime value. Maybe I will use the consumer, actually SKUs, which you started with, as a good example.

First, whenever we launch a new motion, a new SKU, in this instance, especially a subscription, I do think it takes some time both for the customer to understand the value proposition, as well as for retailers and partners to really hone their motion to pivot to selling a new subscription model. I think you're starting to see some of the acceleration, as well as increasing awareness of the product, which I think is terrific.

And maybe more importantly, as we think about the value we're adding, the Office on the iPad announcement certainly brought attention, as we continue to drive people to the subscriptions. And I made a comment around renewal rates, and we're happy with them, as we have just passed the one year anniversary of the launch. And I think when you look at the LTV, we will be better off for many reasons, including financially, when a person moves to the subscription.

My deep belief is the most important thing we will do is continue to think about how we can modernize, add features, add innovation, so that it's more valuable to them every day they use it. And that is far easier in a cloud world than it is on premise, so I think that's probably the most important driver of LTV long-term.

PHIL WINSLOW: Awesome, thanks.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citigroup. Please proceed with your question.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Amy, just a question for you, I know you're not providing updated guidance for Nokia. Just wondering, maybe a little bit of thought behind that decision. I know the deal closes tomorrow, you probably could have easily moved things around here a bit and reported on early next week, and had that benefit.

Is the lack of guidance there, is it just simply you haven't been able to get your hands into that business at this point? Is there something else that's changed in that business, just trying to get a sense. It does open up quite a bit of variability, in terms of how people are going to model things over the next three months.

AMY HOOD: Thanks Walter. It really wasn't a choice. The reality is, we have not had the type of access on tool close where we could confidently begin to give the type of guidance that I believe we have come, and you have come, to expect from us, in terms of the depth and analysis required to get there.

They do report in a different accounting system, it needs to be converted to GAAP. We have not had access to forward projections, haven't had deep access to their systems, and so until we get that, which really starts tomorrow, it's not really a question of whether it was this week or next week, it's really a question of us getting the confidence and access to be able to report at the level of details I know you all would expect me to do.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Walter. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Karl Keirstead with Deutsche Bank. Please proceed with your questions.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: I would like to focus on that server product revenue number of 10%, and Satya, I think you know a thing or two about this group, so perhaps I'll direct that to you. But that growth rate is so far still above what a lot of your megacap tech vendors, peers, I should say, are posting. I wanted to ask you if you could try to outline for us the couple of factors that have enabled Microsoft to continue growing that server business well above your peers, and secondly, if you think that 10%-ish growth is sustainable over FY15?

SATYA NADELLA: Thanks, Karl. I'll start, in fact both Amy and I worked on that business. So we'll both take a crack at it.

It's a pretty exciting change that's happening. Obviously, that part of the business has been performing very well for a while now. But quite frankly, it's fundamentally changing.

One of the questions I often get asked is hey, how did Windows server and the hypervisor underneath it become so good, so soon? You've been at it for a long time, but there seems to have something fundamentally changed. We've grown a lot of share recently, the product is more capable than it ever was, the rate of change is different.

It's for one reason alone, which is, we use it to run Azure. The fact that we use our servers to run our cloud makes our servers more competitive for other people to build their own clouds. It's the same trend that's accelerating us on both sides.

The other thing that's happening is, when we sell our server products, they, for the most part are just not isolated anymore. They come with automatic cloud tiering.

SQL server is a great example, we just launched a new version of SQL which is by far the best release of SQL in terms of its features, like it's exploitation of in-memory. It's the first product in the database world that has in-memory for all the three workloads of databases, all RTP, data warehousing and BI. But more importantly, it automatically gives you high availability, which means a lot to every CIO and every enterprise deployment, by actually tiering to the cloud.

Those kind of feature innovation, which is pretty boundary-less for us is breakthrough work. It's not something that somebody who has been a traditional competitor of ours can do, if you're not even a first-class producer of a public cloud service.

So I think that we are in a very unique place. Our ability to deliver this hybrid value proposition and be in a position where we not only run a cloud service at scale, but we also provide the infrastructure underneath it, as our server products to others, that's what's driving the growth. The shape of that growth, and so on, will change over time, but I feel very, very bullish about our ability to continue this innovation.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Ed Maguire with CLSA. Please proceed with your question.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Great to hear you, Satya, on the call. I had a question about device and consumer licensing. First of all, the Windows Pro revenue is very strong, and Amy, I know you had alluded to receding impact of XP upgrades, but I wanted to get a sense of how sustainable you think that growth can continue?

And also noticing that the particularly Office consumer revenue is improving on attach rates, and there had been a bit of a disconnect there, because of the transition to Office 365. Wanted to get your thoughts on how long that might be sustainable, or whether this is related to the broader XP expiration? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Ed. Let me take those in reverse, actually. On the Office consumer performance, I will always, first and foremost think about the combination of Office 365 Home, as well as our consumer performance, and that grew obviously at a higher rate than 15%, that we talked about this quarter.

That, and increasing attach. There were some dynamics this quarter that I think were important.

Some stabilizing that we have seen in the consumer-developed world PC market also benefits, as you might imagine, our Office business. We have the highest attach rates in developed markets and so that tends to be an important driver of Office revenue, whether earned as a license or a subscription.

The second thing is related a bit to your first question. These are hard to separate oftentimes, many of the dynamics in our market. As we have seen Windows Pro mix increase.

For example, in small business, when people buy PCs with Windows Pro, they're more likely to purchase a form of Office, whether it be a subscription or a license. That's another dynamic you saw this quarter.

A final dynamic that I'll talk about relating to Office was around Japan. We did see some pull-forward due to the end -- to the tax increase. That did have an impact on Office consumer growth, but even without that, as we talked about, we still had increasing attach, and very good performance for the quarter.

Now, backing up, because it's complicated, was the Windows sustainability in the business segment. As we said, it's very hard to separate cleanly the impact of XP from what is an improving business PC refresh cycle, as well as some positive macro economic trends that we're seeing. So, as I said in my comments, the end of XP does create a bit of a moderation in growth.

That being said, the differentiation and value proposition of Pro is clearer than it has been. The investment in that SKU, and the value proposition of Pro has had mix increasing within segments of the market. For example, in small business and in the enterprise, for people who buy a Windows PC. And so I think that's an important dynamic, that we'll continue to invest in, and we're excited to see.

ED MAGUIRE: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Ed. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Raimo Lenschow with Barclays. Please proceed with your question.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Question for Satya, as we think about the new world, in terms of more usage and it's more software driven rather than device driven, can you talk a little bit how you want to reengage or further engage with the developer community, with the big theme of your presentation at Build? I noticed [Ed Burke's] submarine was mentioned by a lot of guys and saw a lot of attention, but talk a little bit about that, how the developer community is really important for you, and what you're doing around that to get the software future of Microsoft going again.

SATYA NADELLA: Great, so thanks for the question. Developers are very, very important to us. If you're in the platform business, which we are, on both on the device side as well as on the cloud side, developers and their ability to create new value props and new applications on them, is sort of life itself.

I would say a couple of things. One is the announcements we made at Build on the device side, really are breakthrough work for us, which is, we are the only device platform today that has this notion of building universal apps, with fantastic tooling around them. So that means you can target multiple of our devices, and have common code across all of them, and this notion of having a Windows universal application help developers leverage their core asset, which is their core asset across this expanded opportunity, is huge.

There was this one user experience change that Terry Myerson talked about at Build, which expands the ability for anyone who puts up this application in Windows Store to be now discovered across even the 1 billion-plus PC install base, and so that's, I think, a fantastic opportunity for developers, and we're doing everything to make that opportunity clear, and recruit developers to do more with Windows. And in that context, we'll also support cross platforms, so one of the things that we have done is the relationship with Unity.

We have tooling that allows you to have this core library that's portable, you can bring your code asset. In fact, we're the only client platform that has the abstractions available for the different languages, and so on.

And then on the cloud side, in fact, one of the most strategic APIs is the Office API. If you think about it, you would be building an application for iOS, if you want single sign-on for any enterprise application, it's the Azure AD single sign-on. That's one of the things we showed at Build, which is how to take advantage of list data in SharePoint, contact information in Exchange, Azure active directory information for log-on, and those are the APIs that are very, very powerful APIs and unique to us.

And they expand the opportunity for developers to reach into the enterprises. And then, of course, Azure is a full platform, which is very attractive to developers. That gives you a flavor for how important developers are, and what your opportunities are.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Raimo. Operator, we have time for one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Amy, I just wanted to go back to D&C licensing, because I think the guidance for the next quarter suggests a relatively modest decline at the midpoint. Certainly more modest than we saw prior to this quarter for the last few quarters.

And I guess I have two questions. One is, are you able to separate the XP end of life impact from the broader improvement in corporate PC refresh, for example? And then two, Satya, what thought have you given around how you could potentially make what has been traditionally a unit model with Windows OEM revenue into something potentially more recurring in nature? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Ross. Let me take the first part of that. I think our guidance for the D&C licensing segment takes into account a moderate decline, as I said, and the benefit of the end of XP, as well as some of the impacts of the pull-forward in Office for Japan. So I think in general it's pretty reflective of the trend lines that we discussed, and I do think it is hard to really separate completely the difference between a generally improving business PC environment and the end of XP. We tried our best to do that in the guidance, and we'll obviously learn more over the coming weeks.

SATYA NADELLA: And the thing I would add is this transition from one time, let's say licenses or device purchases, to what is a recurring stream. You see that in a variety of different ways, you have back-end subscriptions, in our case, they would be Office 365.

There's advertising, there's the app store itself. So these are all things that attach to a device. And so we are definitely going to look to make sure that the value prop that we put together is going to be holistic in its nature, and the monetization itself will be holistic, and it will increase with the usage of the device across these services, and so that's the approach we'll take.

AMY HOOD: Thanks Ross.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you Ross. So, thank you all. That wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those unable to attend in person, these events are generally webcast and you can follow all of the events at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need additional details, and thanks again for joining us today.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, everyone.

SATYA NADELLA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time, and thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140426ea4o009yd
  


 HD
 Q2  2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,541 words
   PD
23 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: ,>> Operator Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft second-quarter fiscal-year 2014 earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure to introduce your host, Chris Suh , General Manager, Investor Relations for Microsoft . Thank you, Chris. You may begin.

CHRIS SUH , GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORP : Thank you, operator. On our website, Microsoft.com /investor, is our financial summary slide deck which is intended to follow prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until January 23, 2015.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements, which are predictions projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factor section of our form 10-K, form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission . We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.

Before I hand the call over to Amy, please keep in mind all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Also unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers to the current quarter have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of last year's revenue deferrals and recognitions related to Windows, Office and Xbox video games.

As a reminder, with our new segment reporting structure we have consolidated adjustments of this nature into corporate and other to provide better comparability of operating results. You can find details of the adjustments and reconciliations of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in our financial summary slide deck. With that, I'll turn it over to Amy.

AMY HOOD , CFO, MICROSOFT CORP : Thank you, Chris. Good afternoon and thank you all for joining us today. As I look back on the quarter, I am pleased with the results as they exceeded expected revenue growth while continuing to maintain focus on improved execution and cost management.

Our devices and consumer segments had a very good quarter and grew 13% with a successful holiday. Our commercial segment had another great quarter and grew 10% to over $12 billion as we continue to deliver on our differentiated cloud strategy. We performed well this quarter and you see it in our financial results.

This holiday we continued to make significant progress in the consumer space, headlined by Xbox One which launched in 13 markets and sold in 3.9 million units in just over five weeks. According to NPD Group figures, Xbox One was the leading console in the US for the month of December, which was its first full month in market.

When adding in Xbox 360, which held the third spot, Xbox led the US market with 46% share in December. We are excited by this enthusiastic response from our loyal customers and are working to increase the availability of Xbox One.

With Surface, demand continued to grow, benefiting from improved execution at retail and favorable reviews of the new Surface devices. Sequentially, both units and revenue more than doubled this quarter with customers recognizing Surface's differentiated value propositions as one device for everything in their life. We feel good about the progress we have made over the past couple of quarters and are enthusiastic about the overall opportunity ahead with Surface.

The Windows ecosystem as a whole is also making important progress. Earlier this fall, we launched Windows 8.1, which enabled smarter, faster and more personalized devices and our OEM partners are taking advantage of this.

Over the last few months they've delivered a breadth of differentiated devices designed to meet a wide range of customer needs. We are encouraged by what we have been able to accomplish with our partners and collectively we will continue to focus on driving the Windows ecosystem forward.

Now, let me share some perspective on what we saw in the PC market, which was slightly better than our expectation. Business PCs grew again for the third consecutive quarter and benefited from an improving macro environment, better availability of innovative new hardware and a refresh cycle ahead of Windows XP end of support.

Additionally growth was higher in large enterprises than small- and medium-sized businesses. Consumer PCs, while better than our expectations, continued to be soft as they faced challenges from competing form factors. And as a general theme, developed markets outperformed emerging markets.

Windows continues to be the platform of choice for business. This quarter Windows Pro revenue grew 12% and out-paced the underlying business PC market. This was proven by faster growth in both enterprises and developed markets where Pro attach is higher. Windows non-Pro revenue however was down 20%, reflecting dynamics of the consumer PC market.

Now let's move to our commercial business where key metrics remain strong. Bookings grew 12% and renewal rates remained in line across our product portfolio even with the large expiring base in the quarter.

Unearned revenue grew 12% and our contracted not-billed balance is at a record level of over $23 billion. To me this is important, as these long-term commitments demonstrate the confidence that customers have in our product road map, where we are investing in key areas such as big data, infrastructure management, and cloud computing.

In big data our upcoming release for SQL Server 2014 builds on the momentum we've established. Offering complete business intelligent solution for big data, SQL Server is driving significant memory performance gains.

Additionally it enabled hybrid cloud solutions with cloud back up and disaster recovery as well as providing enhanced availability and security. Hybrid infrastructure and management offerings also continue to be important priorities.

Windows Server, Azure and System Center are the centerpieces of our hybrid cloud strategy and together they enable portability and scalability of workloads. Using our suite of products customers get high-scale virtualization, built-in software-defined networking and hybrid business continuity that enables their modern data centers.

As CIOs look to cloud computing to reduce cost and deliver business agility, they are turning to our cloud services. Office 365 and Dynamics CRM online offer customers the ability to transition easily to the cloud and benefit from enterprise-class features and a familiar user interface. Additionally Windows Azure provides the scalability and flexibility that addresses their evolving infrastructure and platform needs.

In summary, we had a very good quarter across our consumer and commercial business. We are taking share with many products and seeing improvements in areas where we needed to be better.

As we do this, we continue to prioritize the deployment of our resources to areas that accelerate innovation and deliver products that our customers love. With that overview of the quarter, I'll hand it over to Chris to give more details about our performance before I come back and share thoughts on our outlook.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Amy. First, I am going to review our overall results and then I'll move on to the details by reporting segment. We had a successful holiday quarter and our broad diversified portfolio helped us deliver record revenue in Q2. Total revenue was up 11% to $24.5 billion, and without the impact of foreign exchange, revenue would have been higher by $196 million or 1 percentage point.

Cost of goods sold increased 46%. This increase was primarily due to costs associated with the new Xbox and Surface products which launched this quarter, and also growth in cloud infrastructure supporting our consumer and commercial offerings. Even as we invest in our devices and services initiatives, gross margin was flat at $16.2 billion.

Operating expenses grew at 3% which was below our guidance, as we continue to focus on prioritizing spend toward strategic growth initiatives. Operating income and earnings per share both declined 4% to $8.0 billion and $0.78 respectively. This quarter we returned $4.3 billion of cash to shareholders in buybacks and dividends, our highest amount in the last 12 quarters.

I am now going to talk through the performance of each of our reporting segments. In our devices and consumer segment revenue grew 13%. Within this, the licensing segment, which primarily includes Windows OEM, Consumer Office and Windows Phone declined 6%, reflecting overall PC and device market trend.

We continue to see similar dynamics to the previous quarter. Total Windows OEM revenue declined 3%. As Amy described 12% growth in Windows Pro was offset by 20% declines in Windows non-Pro. Excluding the impact of China where we continue to draw down inventory levels, Windows non-Pro revenue declined 14%.

Office attach, including our cloud offerings, was up again this quarter. Traditional consumer Office licensing revenue declined 24%. However, we estimate that approximately 16 percentage points of this decline was due to the shift to Office 365 Home Premium. Excluding this impact, traditional consumer Office out-performed the underlying consumer PC market.

Next I'll move to our hardware segment where revenue grew $1.9 billion or 68%, driven by a good holiday quarter for our consumer devices. Xbox One had a record launch and together with Xbox 360 we shipped 7.4 million consoles. For Surface we saw improved sales of Surface RT and also introduced Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2 into the market.

Moving to the devices and consumer other segment. As a reminder, this segment includes our online marketplaces, advertising, Xbox Studios, Office 365 Home Premium and other consumer products and services. Revenue in this segment declined 10% when compared to last year when we launched Halo 4.

Search advertising revenue grew 34% driven by continued revenue per search improvements and query volume growth. Bing has now grown its share of search queries to 18.2% in the US.

Office 365 Home Premium adoption continues to be strong. With this service customers are always running the most up-to-date version, have content available across their devices with SkyDrive integration and get free Skype minutes.

The overall value proposition is resonating well with customers and we now have more than 3.5 million subscribers. For the quarter it accounted for more than 15% of total consumer Office licenses sold.

Turning now to our commercial segment. All our commercial revenue and gross margin across both on-premise and cloud services grew 10%. Commercial licensing segment, which reflects our traditional software licensing, grew 7%.

And our commercial other segment, which captures our commercial cloud services as well as our enterprise services business, grew 28% to $1.8 billion. As economies of scale benefits accrue to these online services, we are seeing gross margin expansion in our commercial other segment.

We saw continuing strength across our commercial portfolio. Server product revenue grew 12%. In the data center the premium version of Windows Server which targets tier 1 application work loads, saw significant revenue growth again this quarter. Revenue for System Center grew double-digits and Hyper-V, our virtualization product gained 5 points of share over the last year.

In our data platform business, SQL Server continued to out-pace the market and revenue grew double-digits, with SQL Server Premium revenue growing over 25%. Our commercial Office product also remains strong, growing 10%.

Within this, our productivity server offerings, SharePoint, Exchange and Lync continue to perform well with Lync growing over 25%. We're excited about the unified communications opportunity as we combine the enterprise richness of Lync and the global reach of Skype to transform the communications experience.

We are pleased with our momentum in cloud services. This quarter revenue for commercial cloud services again grew over 100% as customers of all sizes continued to leverage our cloud services to improve productivity, reduce costs, and leverage a secure and trusted platform. We are seeing broad-based adoption as Office 365 seats, Azure customers and Dynamics CRM net seat at all grew over 100%. We now have 70% of the Fortune 500 companies using at least one of our cloud services.

Having now reviewed our results for this past quarter, let me turn it over to Amy to discuss our forward-looking guidance.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Chris. Before I get into our expectations for the quarter, let me quickly touch on Nokia . We continue to expect that the deal will close this quarter, but are still in the process of securing all regulatory approvals and meeting closing conditions. So all guidance here assumes no impact from Nokia . Assuming the deal closes this quarter, we will include Nokia in our guidance starting in the fourth quarter.

Looking ahead to the third quarter, we are expecting a similar macro environment to what we saw this quarter. As such, many of the dynamics from the second quarter will likely continue into the third.

With that, let's get into the outlook, starting with devices and consumer. In licensing we expect revenue to be $4.1 billion to $4.3 billion. This range reflects similar dynamics to what we saw in the second quarter with business PCs growing, strong Pro mix and headwinds in consumer PCs.

In hardware, we expect revenue to be $1.9 billion to $2.0 billion. This reflects continued post-launch momentum with Surface 2, Surface Pro 2, and Xbox One, with the upcoming launch of the Xbox exclusive game, Titanfall. And in devices and consumer other we expect revenue to be about $1.8 billion.

Moving onto commercial. In what is a seasonally slower quarter, we are confident in our ability to continue to be the vendor of choice with our productivity and infrastructure offerings.

In commercial licensing we expect revenue to be $10.4 billion to $10.6 billion. In commercial other we expect revenue to be about $1.8 billion, reflecting continued momentum in our commercial cloud business.

We expect COGS to be $6.1 billion to $6.3 billion next quarter. This range primarily reflects variability associated with our hardware business.

Moving on to operating expenses. We expect OpEx to grow 5% to 6% to $7.7 billion to $7.8 billion. We are also reducing and narrowing the range for our full-year guidance to $31.2 billion to $31.5 billion.

As a reminder, other income and expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. We expect these items to generally offset one another.

We still expect our full-year tax rate to be between 18% and 20%. We now expect full-year capital expenditures to be about $6 billion, which is down about $500 million from our prior guidance.

This reduction is primarily driven by improved capacity utilization and scale benefits, as we converge our online services infrastructure platforms while continuing to support the strong demand that we see in business. Adjusting for prior year tech guarantees and product deferrals, we expect unearned revenue to sequentially decline, as it has in prior years.

So in summary, I feel good about the financial results this quarter. We are executing well across the Company as demonstrated by share gains in our commercial business. And we are also making important inroads with our consumer offerings. Looking ahead, there is a lot to be excited about as we continue our transformation around One Microsoft .

With that, I'll turn it back to Chris and we'll take your questions.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Amy. With that, we'll move on to Q&A. Operator, please repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you.

(Operator Instructions)

Our first question comes from the line of John DiFucci with JPMorgan Chase . Please proceed with your question.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Obviously nice upside on the hardware business and with Surface and Xbox. But my question is on the licensing business, so bear with me a little bit here.

You had both licensing businesses, device and consumer and commercial licensing, they were both better than expected at least by about $100 million each. At the same time, deferred revenue was shy by something like $250 million. But there is some conflicting things. I am just trying to get my head around this.

The contract not billed, Amy, you pointed out was really strong, saw a big jump by somewhere around $2 billion sequentially. And you also saw some nice traction, the commercial cloud services more than doubled. Assuming it's small.

Here's my question. With all that happening, is there a shift happening with your on-premise corporate business to more transactional versus ratable contracts? That would help out, to help offset the financial implications as you shift to cloud services on the corporate side. Is that's what's happening with all these movements? Sorry about all the detail.

AMY HOOD : I really appreciate the question because it's going to let me help expand on a couple of dynamics, which I think are at work here. So now I am going to ask you to bear with me with a little bit of a long answer.

Let me start by your comments, I think, around the overall commercial licensing bucket, which I am going to expand to include, as you did, the overall commercial business, both cloud and licensing. There are a number of metrics that I tend to look at together, as opposed to individually, to think about how we did in the quarter.

You touched on one, unearned, which grew 12% this quarter which is quite good. The second is bookings, which grew 12% in the quarter which is very good. Renewal rates, which were in line across our products. And finally, the CNB balance, the contracted not billed balance, being up sequentially $2 billion, as you point out is very big.

If you think about those together as a group, those data points are very important. Because together I would say any, I think you said $200 million short on unearned. With those data points together, I would say there is no shortage in terms of commercial licensing and commercial other strengths all up.

As you know, contracted but not billed tends to be at the end of the quarter. We signed a bunch of contracts that we can't bill for until the very beginning of the next. Think about that as business done in quarter. We'll see that come into the unearned balance, frankly, in Q3 as well as into adjusted.

So that dynamic answers away the first question and a part of the question you asked. Now, that could have -- that's sort of a separate piece. Then you said, well, some of the dynamic could be explained by some strong transactional business in the quarter.

I would say there is one place, and I would actually separate these things because the first was good and the second was better than we thought. Office non-annuity or transactional did a little better than we thought in quarter, as well. And so that's a good point that we didn't bring out that that is another component of the 10% all up commercial growth.

Now, so I guess my answer is, I agree with your transactional comment but I disagree that it's probably the overall -- it's a component of a quote, unquote shortfall and unearned. I would say both actually are quite good.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thanks, Amy.

That's fairly helpful but actually just a clarification on the contracted not yet billed. You said, and yes, contracts get signed at the end of the quarter. So, what you're saying that the big jump primarily was because they just hadn't been billed yet versus signing. I could see if you were just signing longer-term deals that you are going to bill annually, but that's not what's happening? It's more about just -- is that accurate? Either one could happen.

AMY HOOD : Yes, that's right. If something was actually billed at the end of the quarter, it goes into unearned. Contracted but not billed is actually that the contract was signed, but because the billing won't quite take place until after the end of the fiscal quarter, it ends up in contracted but not billed as opposed to unearned.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Right, but are we seeing any -- typically your contracts are three years. But are we seeing any extension on the average contract length?

AMY HOOD : No, no, that's not one of the impacts. Thanks, John.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Great. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH : We'll move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Mark Moerdler with Sanford C. Bernstein. Please proceed with your question.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you very much. Two quick questions. The first one is can you give us any sense of how much of the Office 365 and the Home Premium could be generated by net new users as compared to simply the move over existing users? And then I'll ask the second one.

AMY HOOD : Mark, that's actually -- here's how I think about the value prop. Because I can't really say these are sales through retail and through OEM generally, whether it's a net new user or not. What I can say is that attach overall went up in the Office consumer business, which I would say is and could be a sign that some of those are net new. And I would hope that to be the case.

The value prop of Office 365 Home Premium really does expand the footprint. It allows for multiple users. It has cross platform capabilities with Office for Mac. It's got mobile capabilities as well, and allows for easier trial. So, it does lower many of the barriers to experience and try the product. So while I can't point and say there is an exact number that is a new user, I can certainly say with attach going up that dynamic is helpful.

MARK MOERDLER: Excellent.

The second quick question is on the Windows side. Any sense whether or not -- we've seen, obviously, an improvement on the numbers on here. Do you believe that's being driven purely by an improvement going on on the market? It's the Windows 7 refresh accelerating as we get closer to the day? Any sense of what the drivers are, both on the consumer and enterprise side as to why we're seeing the pick up?

AMY HOOD : Sure. I covered it a little bit in my comments, but it's probably worth spending a little bit more time. Let me start with the business market.

I think there really are three factors that I would point to particularly in the business environment. And the first one may, Mark, also help on the consumer side. The overall macro spending environment is better. It's a little bit better than we thought. In businesses we are seeing it. You are seeing it in some of the IT spend forecasts you all put out. They're being raised and I think that has an impact.

The second is, I think our partners have done a very good job expanding the types and availability of new and interesting hardware. That brings people to the store and I think is an encouraging sign.

Finally, as you asked, at the end of life of XP, that has been an impact. We expect it to continue to be, as we said, in Q3. But I wouldn't point to simply one of the factors as being the reason, but it is a combination of those factors.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect. I do appreciate. Thank you.

AMY HOOD : Thank you, Mark.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Mark. We'll move to the next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse . Please proceed with your question.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Thanks, guys. Congratulations on the great quarter. I have a question back on the Windows volume licensing side. You kind of touched on it earlier, but you saw 10% growth year over year this quarter verses 6% last quarter. So you continue to have very healthy growth here.

One of the questions I've been getting from some clients is, A, what's driving that? And B, as we get closer and then actually pass the official end of life of XP, how do you think that's going to affect the growth in Windows licensing beyond that point?

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Phil. I'm going to take the opportunity to make your question two questions. One is to talk about Windows volume licensing overall, and secondly allow me to talk a little bit about the places that you could see the impact of Windows XP in the current quarter. And I think that will help as you think about Q3 going forward.

In volume licensing, you are right, it did grow 10% in Q2. And we do believe we are seeing some of the benefit of that growth is the end of life of Windows XP. But it's also reflective of the value many of our bigger customers are seeing in upgrading to the enterprise version of Windows.

The enterprise SKU includes things like DirectAccess, Windows To Go, the Corporate Image, App Blocker. Those really are differentiating and they really do matter to many CIOs. So I think specifically on VL while end of life of XP is one component it's certainly not the only component.

Now, if I expand your question to -- and I think in a way Mark asked about it too, is the end of life of XP. One place that we've talked about it was Windows and how does it play into the business PC growth? The second we talked about was volume licensing. And the third, which I actually talked about in John's question, was Office and some transactional strengths.

Some of the strengths that we saw in Office transactionally really can be linked back to the end of life of XP. As people refresh a PC and that they're buying Pro, those people often are Office customers. And so if they tend to buy on a transactional basis, it also sees some impact through Office. I think you can tie that back to some of the out-performance we saw the quarter as well.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Phil. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs . Please proceed with your question.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS : Great. Thank you. Nice execution in the quarter. Amy, I wanted to ask if you could share with us how you see the gross margin profile of the Company changing as you continue with your journey to be a devices and services Company? And as you look out to when the transition is complete, and I know you probably don't know when exactly that's going to occur, how do we think about what it will look like?

AMY HOOD : Heather, thanks.

This is one of those questions that I think is best taken in a bit of a chunk. You know, first of all, I think if you look at our commercial segment, I will do it all up as I think it's relatively easy with that break down. In general, and you saw it this quarter, even as we continue to invest in the infrastructure to support our cloud conversion of our commercial customers to AGR and Office 365 and CRM Online, our actual gross margin remains flat. Which means we're increasing our utilization and growing gross margin in the commercial cloud business as we continue to see traction.

Over time, I continue to believe our commercial business in the absolute moving to the cloud is a net positive, as we talked about before, to overall profit, including increasing the amount of gross margin we make as a Company. That, I think, this quarter was 83%ish, so that I would take as a separate bucket from our devices and consumer business.

And there, what's interesting is we have a couple of business models there with different gross margin profiles. And you're actually seeing the impact of some of that in this quarter. Xbox, as we know, especially with new consoles like the One, tend to be gross margin negative on the front. This is a heavy quarter for that over time, through the attach of first, second, third party games and other services, the margin profile with any console life changes. But it's never going to be at 83% gross margin because of different business even for the market leader and even successfully generating cash and return.

That is different from other businesses we also have in D&C. I think the important thing that I tend to focus on as I go through all these businesses, is continued margin improvement within the business, continued efficiency within the business, and continued focus on the absolute profit within each of those areas. And then the mix then becomes more of a math equation, as we continue to grow the overall amount of cash and profit the Company generates.

CHRIS SUH : Okay. Thank you, Heather.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Heather.

CHRIS SUH : Next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Brent Thill with UBS . Please proceed with your question.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS : Hi, Amy. Back on contracted not billed, you had four quarters over $21 billion and jumping up obviously to north of $23 billion. That jump that happened, can you help us understand what the buckets that made that jump up this quarter was? Is there an easier way to think through where that actually came from?

AMY HOOD : Yes. Yes and no, of course. Brent, let me say contracted but not billed is related to the number of expirations we have in the quarter.

Chris and, I think, I both talked about we did have a lot of expirations in the quarter. When those tend to fall at the end, they can impact the actual magnitude is the absolute number of expirations. And then the timing of when those fall in the quarter can also impact how it's recognized. That's why I never really look at it separately from unearned bookings and renewals together. And so, because timing is one thing, that's why I tend to put them in a bucket and say together it's a good and healthy trajectory.

BRENT THILL: Real quick on the multi-year agreements mentioned, the healthy renewals. Any color you can add to the re-up on the size of what you are seeing in general across some of those bigger multi-year agreements?

AMY HOOD : I think in general it reflects the same trends we've been seeing. It's across our broad portfolio. You see it across Windows Office and Server.

If you look at our KPIs I think that points out that it's pretty broad-based. So I don't think there's any one particular area I would call out. It's really more about platform health and commitment.

BRENT THILL: Thank you.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Brent.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Brent. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Walter Pritchard with Citigroup . Please proceed with your question.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP : Thanks. Question on the consumer retail side. This is the first year I think you've had full retail store presence. You also, I believe, had some presence in some of the Best Buys with mini stores in there. I am wondering what your take-away is from the holiday season, and if those efforts you think were a part of the reason why you had a pretty successful holiday season, especially on the PC side? And what that experience suggests that you should do in the future in terms of retail store build-out and general investment around retail?

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Walter.

When we talk about improved retail execution, I really think that's a partnership, as you said, with retailers, with our OEMs and with our efforts to really improve both the devices, the assortment, and the experience of buying in the PC aisle. So I do feel good about the investments we've made there. And we've made them, I think, thoughtfully and continue to keep a focus on cost and expense as we do that.

So do I think it had an impacted? I do. But I really think the broader impact was investments and commitments we had with our partners to also improve the retail buying experience.

CHRIS SUH : Thank you, Walter.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Thanks.

CHRIS SUH : Next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Keith Weiss with Morgan Stanley . Please proceed with your question.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Excellent. Thank you for taking my question. Very nice quarter.

I want to dig into gross margins in the quarter. By my estimates you guys outperformed the guidance for gross margins that you gave on the quarter, despite the fact that you saw significant out-performance in D&C hardware. Which, as you were saying especially for something like Xbox One, which is just out of the gate, we had expectations of being very low if not negative gross margins.

Can you help us understand a little bit of where that gross margin out-performance came from? Was any of it in D&C hardware getting better yields or better gross margins on those products than your expectations? If not, where did the out-performance come from?

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Keith. I'm glad you asked that question. With our out-performance, as you pointed out, in D&C hardware, we did actually see increased COGS related to that.

However, that was offset by some COGS improvements and savings we saw across other areas, as we continue to focus on efficiency and execution. And so, you're right, we did see COGS grow with hardware, but we were able to find savings elsewhere as we focused on improved execution.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Keith.

KEITH WEISS: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH : We'll move to the next question please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Rick Sherlund with Nomura Securities. Please proceed with your question.

RICK SHERLUND , ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks. Congratulations on the margins, cost management and execution. And also, Amy, I think we all appreciate your very substantive answers to the questions.

Just a follow up to an earlier question on the contracted but unbilled. We're seeing with VMWare that they had a surge of three-year contracts coming out of recession, and a lot of those are coming back for renewal now. Is that what you were suggesting as you've got an unusually large volume of contracts coming up for renewal?

AMY HOOD : Rick, yes.

In many ways you have seen this over-covering our Company for a while. Expirations can be chunkier. That's not a year statement. This quarter we had a big expiry base. I wouldn't characterize it as abnormally large. But the timing is a bit related to three years ago, and the timing of some of the contracts. So it's probably a consistent driver.

RICK SHERLUND : Okay.

And last quarter we talked a bit about, are there any metrics you can help us to understand better what the effect of your revenues is from the shift to the cloud? I think on Office it's more of a net, a delta that, I think you said it hurts you about $150 million in the previous quarter. Is there any way you can give us a sense of what the net impact is on the business from the shift to cloud?

CHRIS SUH : Hi, Rick. It's Chris.

I think I talked about this a little bit. The place where you can see most direct impact is in the consumer Office business. We talked about business on a traditional license basis being down 24 points. But our estimate is approximately 16 points of that decline is accounted for by the shift to Office 365 Home Premium. That gives you a good estimation of the direct impact we're seeing particularly on the consumer side.

RICK SHERLUND : That implies it would only be down about 8% were it not for the shift to the cloud?

CHRIS SUH : That's one way to look at it, yes. The net number would be about 8%.

RICK SHERLUND : Perfect, thank you.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Ed Maguire with CLSA. Please proceed with your question.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Yes. Good afternoon. I wanted to ask about phone, because you had not discussed Windows Phone on the call so far. How it's tracking based on your expectations, whether you are planning on continuing to invest with non-Nokia OEMs. And also, Amy, whether any of your expectations or investment plans for the integration with Nokia have changed in any meaningful way since you announced the deal? Thanks.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Ed. That's a good point. We didn't have a chance to discuss the phone results.

We did see growth in Windows Phone, both in the licensing and in the mobile phone IP revenues. Both grew this quarter. I think, regarding Nokia , we continue to see the growth in many of the places we have seen it historically, unsubsidized markets, as well as with entry-level smart phone devices. So I think many of those dynamics haven't really changed.

Do I have any updates to how to think about Nokia other than we continue to expect it to close in the quarter? I don't. We mostly remain focused on working hard to get to the point. We're working together as one team to drive that business forward.

ED MAGUIRE: Thank you.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Ed.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Ed. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch . Please proceed with your question.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Hi. Thank you very much, Amy.

I appreciate the fact that you are trying to improve the margins in each of the commercial and the consumer businesses. But the margin differential between these two businesses is still -- is a pretty wide one. It looks like the consumer business is growing. The two dynamics that I can see are the of consumer business -- the three are: one is the margin differential is too wide. You try to improve it.

The marginal difference is too wide. The consumer business trend-wise is growing faster than commercial. And third is that you have the shift to the cloud. Unless you do something like an Adobe or Autodesk where you force transition to happen quickly, there is the risk that you get a lot of growth, which is fantastic.

There's a lot of progress to share, but the margin inflection point could be delayed for several years. I think that what one of the questions that was spurred behind, I think presumably Heather's question, was -- that's what I'm trying to get at.

So how long you are going to get this shift to result in a way that we may not see the earnings growth rate, but we have to wait to some point in time? Or are you at the point where you can actually force this shift to happen much quicker? Thank you very much.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Kash.

I think the way I think about it is we have a broad portfolio. And we address customers of all types. And in many ways our biggest goal is to meet the needs of our customers whether they be CIOs or consumers. And setting our business model to support the products and the adoption curve that we want needs to be married with the adoption curve and timing of our customers.

I feel like we have done a very good job of balancing the pace of that. I have been encouraged by the pace of adoption of many of our cloud services. You heard the Home Premium numbers today, as well as talking about the commercial cloud. And so for me it's hard to say is there too big of a delta? It's really about managing each of these things toward absolute growth and absolute improvement and having customer adoption. So, I probably just have a different perspective on that than you have.

KASH RANGAN: Thank you very much.

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Kash.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks, Kash. We'll go to the next question please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from the line of Ross MacMillan with Jefferies. Please proceed with your question.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks a lot, and my congratulations, as well.

Amy, you said that Office 365 Home Premium was more than 15% of total consumer Office licenses sold. And I wonder if you think about your commercial business. And we either think about it as a percentage of total Office 365 or as a percentage of what's traditionally been transactional, whether you have a similar metric in terms of percentage of total Office licenses sold.

AMY HOOD : That's actually a good question.

We only recently started selling the Office client in our volume licensing agreements through a subscription. So that is actually good feedback for us to think, going forward, about talking about the Office-specific business that way. In general we think of Office 365 as being a broad set of assets, including Exchange, SharePoint, Lync and Office in the commercial business. And we haven't really talked about it given the newness of the model in the enterprise, as being as meaningful as it has been in the consumer. The shift is far faster there on the client.

ROSS MACMILLAN: I just think that would be helpful, especially as we think about it with respect to your traditional commercial transactional business. Maybe if I could slip in one other one just to go back on the contracted not billed. I just want to be clear in my own mind because I've heard two things.

One thing I heard you say was we had stronger transactional business late in the quarter, but I also heard you say there were, frankly, more renewals on multi-year that would have resulted in that balance going up, especially if those were late in the quarter. Am I right to think it's those two factors that are at play here? Both stronger transactional and a larger pool, if you will, of multi-year renewals? And is it relatively evenly balanced between the two? Thank you.

AMY HOOD : Thanks. Actually transactional execution in the quarter is recognized all in-quarter. That's non-annuity. It doesn't go to either the unearned balance or the contracted not billed balance. So that's not an impact that results in a change to unearned or CNB.

The latter, which is the absolute size of the expiration dates, frankly, could or couldn't impact CNB. It can impact things like unearned growth, but it also can impact CNB depending on if it's contracted in-quarter but not billed until after the end of the quarter.

ROSS MACMILLAN: That's really helpful. Thank you for the clarification.

CHRIS SUH : Thanks. We'll move to the next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Brad Reback with Stifel. Please proceed with your question.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Hi, how are you guys doing?

AMY HOOD : Hi, Brad.

BRAD REBACK: Amy, in the Q it talks about the Surface still losing money, even at the almost $900 million run rate of revenue in the quarter. Can you give us any sense of what type of volume you need for that business to have the scale to make some money?

AMY HOOD : Thanks, Brad.

When we launched Surface just a year ago, our goal was really to create a product that showcased what can happen when you innovate in hardware, in the service and in the software. As you know we've learned a lot over the course of this journey, and we have to make more meaningful progress. But I think for us, we've remained focused as we launch the second version of Surface to stay focused on both price point and gross margin.

I think we've made a big Leap from D1 to D2. And I look forward to making leaps as we go forward in our product road map. But I do think it's more to think about it as a goal we absolutely have as we continue to innovate the line.

BRAD REBACK: Great. Thank you.

AMY HOOD : Thanks.

CHRIS SUH : We'll move to the next question please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from the line of Gregg Muskowitz with Cowen and Company. Please proceed with your question.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you very much. Amy, despite the healthy gross margins, your XBox platform revenue grew $1.2 billion year over year, but your related cost of foods sold went up by $1.6 billion. I realize there may be additional costs related to launch. Wondering if you could talk to expected profitability levels for XBox for the balance of fiscal 2014.

AMY HOOD : Thanks. We'll continue to be in launch mode for Xbox One, especially as many people are excited about launch of Titanfall in March. And we'll continue to add and expand markets over the course of the year. I would continue to think about our investment in being the leading next-generation console as certainly extending.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH : Thank you. So we have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our last question comes from Brendan Barnicle with Pacific Crest Securities . Please proceed with your question.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES : Thanks so much. Amy, you mentioned briefly in your comments some of the strengths you had seen in SQL Server. That seems to be taking market share. You highlighted a couple of the features, but what do you think is driving that market share gain?

And a similar question over on the server side where you seem to have better server numbers than what we have seen in units. What would be accounting for that additional strength?

AMY HOOD : Thank you. You're right.

I only pointed out a few of the value props of SQL Server. And actually dating back years the real value prop of SQL has been the breadth of its offerings: analytics, reporting and core data base functionality. Over the years I think the balance of those things, and continuing to add and innovate at very good value, has continued to be appealing.

As we move forward and add some cloud capabilities into our hybrid model and continue to add features into the premium levels, when you are the established, and I think in many ways, unit leader then you can focus on continuing to move up the stack, adding value and increasing your premium mix. The team has really done a terrific job of doing that, so it's nice to be asked so that I can talk about it.

And I think I mentioned it briefly, but Systems Center is another where we've gained share in virtualization. I think we're quite proud of the progress we've made especially in that area. That's enabled a lot of growth as well. So I actually appreciate the question. It's good to be able to talk so positively about those assets.

CHRIS SUH : Thank you, Brendan. Okay, so that wraps up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Just a quick reminder that Build, our developer conference, will kick off the morning of April 2 in San Francisco. We encourage investors to watch the key notes live via webcast.

We'll also look forward to seeing many of you at the coming months in various investor's conferences. For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast and you will be able to follow comments at the microsoft.com/investor website. Please contact us if you need additional details. Thanks again for joining us today and take care.

AMY HOOD : Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time and thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Consumer Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140125ea1n006si
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,939 words
   PD
24 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Greetings and welcome to the Microsoft fiscal-year first-quarter 2014 earnings.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

As a reminder, this conference is being recorded. It is now my pleasure, and now I will introduce and turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager Investor Relations for Microsoft. Thank you, Chris, you may begin.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: On our website, Microsoft.com/ investor, is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks, and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Our website also includes information related to our new financial reporting segment which were announced on September 19, 2013, and discussed with investors on our conference call on September 26. As reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission in the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until October 24, 2014.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking stamens, which are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Before I hand the call over to Amy, I'd like to remind you that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Also, please keep in mind that with our new segment reporting structure, adjustments for items such as upgrade offers, tech guarantees, and presales are consolidated into corporate other to provide better comparison of operating results. Unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of last year's revenue deferrals related to the Windows upgrade offer, Windows 8 presales, the Office offer, and a $113 million revenue deferral in the current quarter, primarily related to Windows 8.1 presales. You can find details of the adjustments and reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in our financial summary slide deck.

And with that, I'll turn it over to Amy.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon and thank you for joining us today. By now you've had a chance to look at our press release, earnings slide deck, key performance indicators and our 10-Q. Our results have been reported using the new reporting framework I first discussed at our financial analyst meeting in September. Since this is a new way to think about our business, I'm sure you'll have a lot of questions. So after our prepared remarks, we will allow a little more time than usual for Q&A. And with that, let me dive right in.

This quarter, we delivered record first-quarter revenue. We did it while working through a significant transformation of our organization, and while making significant moves to implement our new strategy. Our Company is focused and delivering. Our enterprise business remains strong despite a macro environment that some have characterized as tough. We are driving our business forward with industry-leading solutions in key areas like collaboration, unified communications, and cloud services. And high customer satisfaction is driving high enterprise agreement renewal rates.

At the same time, we are making meaningful progress in our consumer business. We saw growing engagement and adoption across our major consumer services, including Office 365 Home Premium, Skype, Bing, and SkyDrive. And with the new Windows, we're building high-value experiences for our consumers that allow people to use our devices and services all day long, whether at work or at home. From a geographic perspective, we saw broad-based revenue growth. Overall, both developed and emerging markets showed strength. The US and parts of Western Europe were particularly strong, while China was weak.

Now, let me share some quick thoughts on the PC market, which turned out better than we had expected. We're seeing signs of stabilization in the business segment, with two consecutive quarters of growth, and a relatively stable outlook for the next couple of quarters. While the consumer segment is more volatile, with increasing competition for share of wallet, it also performed better than expected, particularly in developed markets.

With that backdrop, let's move on to Windows. We are seeing favorable reviews and customer enthusiasm for Windows 8.1, which became available last week. Windows 8.1 delivers on Microsoft's promise of a quick innovation cadence, launching less than one year after Windows 8. Based on extensive customer feedback, we added more customization capabilities, made the UI simpler and easier to use, added new and smart ways to search, improved power management, and allowed multitasking, even on a tablet.

Combined with the progress our OEM partners are making, we are collectively increasing the selection of compelling Windows devices available to meet the dynamic needs of all segments of the market. This holiday, we will see competitive opening price points on tablets and laptops, such as the Dell Inspiron 15 for less than $300. We will also see exciting mobile devices, from 6-inch phones to 10-inch tablets, many with Microsoft Office. In the 6-inch category, we are incredibly excited by the Nokia Lumia 1520 tablet announced this past Tuesday. For 8-inch tablets, Toshiba, Dell, and Lenovo will have devices available for less than $300. And for 10-inche tablets, we, of course, like the Nokia Lumia 2520 with LTE.

In addition to third-party devices, we are also excited about our first-party lineup. With Surface, we are making progress with better end market execution. As a result, we more than doubled the number of units we sold over the prior quarter. In terms of mix, Surface RT did better than expected. With Surface Pro, we saw some customers delay purchase in anticipation of Surface Pro 2, which delivers significantly improved battery and processor performance.

Moving on to the enterprise where demand for our solutions continues to be strong. Earlier this month, we announced our fall wave of enterprise products and services, which touches nearly every aspect of IT. We are seeing solid growth, we are outperforming our competitors, and we are taking share in areas like virtualization and the data platform. Our hybrid infrastructure and management offerings continue to be top choices for CIOs, with Windows server Premium and System Center growing double digits again this quarter. The latest versions of Windows Server, System Center and Windows Intune deliver enhancements to networking, storage and device management for Windows and alternative platforms. These enhancements will help customers realize the promise of hybrid cloud computing across their data centers, hosted clouds, and Windows Azure.

In the data platform, SQL Server continues to outpace the market. The next version, SQL Server 2014, will offer new in-memory and cloud capabilities that will increase performance and unlock new hybrid scenarios. Later this month, we will make Windows Azure HDInsight, our [faduke]-based big data solution generally available. We continue to bring additional values to the Windows Azure platform. This quarter we delivered a number of updates that enable faster connectivity, improve security, and integrate access and identity across on-premises and cloud applications. With all of the innovation we are delivering to our enterprise customers, we continue to be uniquely positioned to capture more and more of the addressable market.

Before handing it off to Chris, I'd like to say a couple of additional things. As part of our new reporting framework, we've disclosed segment gross margin. The segment breakout is important in understanding our performance because each of our businesses are impacted by different dynamics. And have different margin profiles. In devices and consumer, the sequential change in gross margin dollars reflects the progress we are making towards our strategy of delivering a compelling family of devices and services. While we feel good about the increased traction we saw with Surface this quarter, we know there is more to do. We are intensely focused on improving our capabilities in key areas like demand planning and supply chain management, and on achieving scale as quickly as possible.

And in commercial, we are already seeing the benefits of the investments we've made to transform our business model from perpetual software licensing to services. In our commercial cloud business, which includes Office 365, Azure, and other Microsoft services, we saw year-over-year gross margin expansion. With regards to our pending acquisition of substantially all of Nokia's devices and services business, we still expect the transaction to close in the first quarter of calendar 2014. We will provide an update to the EPS impact, if any, post closing.

So, in summary, we are executing better, getting our customers what they want, and making meaningful progress through the early stages of our transformation. And we've accomplished all of this while also working through the One Microsoft realignment and several significant announcements. We are committed to executing and delivering. And so far that's what we've done.

With that backdrop for the quarter, I'll hand it over to Chris to give more details about our performance before I come back and share thoughts on the outlook.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. First, I'll review our overall results and then I'll move onto the details by business segment. Total revenue was up 7% to $18.6 billion. And came in about $700 million better than our expectation. And without the impact from foreign exchange, revenue would have been $200 million, or 1 percentage point better. Annuity revenue was particularly strong and grew 11%, driven by commercial performance.

Cost of goods sold increased 23%, which was in line with our expectation of over 20% growth. This increase was primarily due to Surface costs and also higher depreciation related to the CapEx investments we made to support our cloud services strategy. As a result, gross margin grew 3% to $13.5 billion, reflecting the changing mix of our revenue. All-up, operating expenses grew 8%, which was generally in line with our expectation, with the exception of G&A which declined due to lower legal expenses.

We continue to be thoughtful and diligent in how and where we focus our resources. In advertising, the team has embraced One Microsoft, and the benefits are already accruing with improved messaging and results. And in R&D, we are continuing to focus our resources while accelerating our cadence. Operating income and earnings per share both declined 3% to $6.4 billion and $0.63, respectively. Unearned revenue grew a healthy 14% to $20.1 billion. And our contracted-not-billed balance grew to over $21 billion, driven by commercial strength.

Our inventory balance sequentially increased by $675 million, mostly due to builds of Xbox 360 and Xbox One. Ahead of the holiday selling season, Xbox represents over half of our inventory balance. Inventory for Surface products declined sequentially, even as we built levels ahead of this week's Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2 launches.

This quarter we announced a 22% increase in our quarterly dividend to $0.28 per share to. And also announced a $40 billion share repurchase program. We returned $3.8 billion of cash to shareholders, our highest quarterly amount since the second quarter of fiscal 2011.

I'm now going to talk about the performance in each of our reporting segments. Our devices and consumer licensing segment is comprised principally of Windows OEM, consumer Office, and Windows phone including related patent licensing. Our Windows OEM business performed better than expected, declining 7% versus our expectation of a mid teens decline. As Amy noted, we believe we are seeing stabilization in business PCs, which grew again this quarter and drove Pro revenue growth of 6%. We also saw better-than-expected performance in the consumer part of our business. Non-Pro revenue declined 22%, but was several points better than expected. Excluding the impact of China, which continues to have a different dynamic than other emerging markets, non-Pro revenue declined 17%.

Together with our OEM and retail partners, we brought an incredible breadth of Windows devices to market. We've also made meaningful improvements to our advertising campaigns, which now clearly highlights the value proposition of our devices. As we head into holiday, we are excited by the opportunities to bring the new Windows experience to even more users around the globe.

Consumer Office licensing revenue declined this quarter. The financial impact of the shift to Office 365 Home Premium was generally in line with our expectation. Office 365 subscribers benefit from the natural integration of services, such as SkyDrive and Skype. And have the flexibility to access the service from numerous end points. Whether it be a traditional licensing or subscription, customers continue to see the value in Office, as overall attach of Office increased this quarter. The Windows phone ecosystem is seeing sustained growth. While we have work to do, our share is growing in many geographies, the device portfolio is expanding, and the number of apps available in the marketplace is increasing.

I'll now move on to our devices and consumer hardware segment, where revenue grew $401 million, driven almost entirely by Surface. With improved sales and marketing efforts, combined with pricing and promotional activities, we saw Surface units and revenue growth sequentially from Q4, with the mix of sales shifting towards 32 gigabyte RT devices. Demand increased for this device both in retail and in education. From a gross margin perspective, in addition to product costs, which grew as a result of increased Surface sales, we also incurred non product expenses as we readied inventory lines for the new Surface lineup and the holiday sales cycle.

Moving to devices and consumer other, as a reminder, this segment includes our online marketplaces, advertising, Xbox Studios, Office 365 Home Premium, and other consumer products and services. This quarter, revenue growth in this segment was driven by both an increase in advertising revenue and also volumes in our online marketplaces. Search advertising revenue grew 47%, driven by continued revenue per search improvement and query volume growth. Bing has now grown its share of search queries in the US to 18%. Gross margin declined slightly due to higher royalty costs, and also infrastructure cost growth as we expand the geographic footprint of our services.

Turning now to our commercial business, where all-up commercial revenue across both on-prem and cloud services grew 10% this quarter. Notably, even as we invest for growth, we saw gross margin expansion in our commercial cloud business. Across our commercial portfolio we saw healthy renewals, a continued shift to premium products, and strong adoption of our cloud services. Our enterprise cloud strategy is resonating with customers. And server product revenue grew 12%. SQL Server revenue grew double digits, with SQL Server Premium revenue growing over 30%. Our commercial Office products also remain strong and grew 11%. Within this, SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync collectively grew double digits, with Lync growing nearly 30%.

Helping to drive this demand for our server and Office products is deployment of hybrid cloud solutions. This quarter revenue for our commercial cloud services grew over 100%, as service such as Office 365 are integrated with Azure services for comprehensive cloud solutions. Importantly, we are seeing strong customer adoption, with Office 365 suites and Azure customers both growing triple digits. Dynamics CRM Online is also expanding its base with two-thirds of new Dynamics CRM customers opting for the cloud.

With that overview of our commercial business, let me share the financial performance of each of our commercial reporting segments. Revenue in the commercial licensing segment grew 7%. And in our commercial other segment, revenue grew 28% to $1.6 billion. As a reminder, corporate and other is where we consolidate adjustments for tech guarantees, pre-sales, and the like. In the comparable quarter of last year, we had aggregate deferrals of $1.4 billion for Windows and Office. And this quarter we deferred $113 million primarily related to Windows 8.1 pre-sales.

Having now talked through our results for the past quarter, let me turn it over to Amy to discuss our forward-looking guidance.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Chris. As we look toward the second quarter, we are assuming the macro environment remains generally the same. With this, we expect many of the dynamics we saw in the first quarter to continue, with strong performance in our commercial business and ongoing improvement in our consumer business. Importantly, we are set up for a terrific holiday season. We have a wide variety of Windows-based devices in market. Earlier this week we launched Surface 2 and Surface Pro 2. And in November we will launch our next-generation console, Xbox One. Building on the performance and unique experiences that gamers love, it will also deliver an innovative entertainment experience by bringing movies, music, sports and live TV together in one place.

With that, let's get into the outlook, starting with devices and consumer. In licensing, we expect revenue to be $5.2 billion to $5.4 billion. This range reflects similar dynamics to what we saw in the first quarter. As I noted earlier, we expect the business PC market to be stable. However, the consumer PC market is subject to more volatility.

In hardware, we expect revenue to grow 35% to 45% to $3.8 billion to $4.1 billion, reflecting the expanded Surface lineup and the much-anticipated Xbox One launch. The 10 percentage point range reflects variability in device unit volumes. In the consumer hardware business, such variability is not uncommon, especially during launches and the holiday season. And in devices and consumer other, we expect revenue to be $1.7 billion to $1.8 billion. Search revenues should continue to grow, reflecting improved revenue per search and query volume. As a reminder, in Q2 of the prior year, we launched Halo 4, which contributed $380 million of revenue to this segment.

Now, moving on to commercial. We expect revenue to grow 9% to 11%, in line with the first quarter. As we think about this part of the business, we are confident in our ability to continue to add value to our products, while providing low total cost of ownership for our customers. In commercial licensing, we expect revenue to be $10.7 billion to $10.9 billion, with similar dynamics to what we saw in the first quarter. This includes healthy renewals and strong annuity revenue growth from volume licensing with software assurance. In commercial other, we expect revenue to be $1.7 billion to $1.9 billion, reflecting ongoing momentum in our commercial cloud business and enterprise services. As CIOs increasingly look to capitalize on the opportunities with cloud computing, we are confident they will continue to look to Microsoft for their IT solutions.

Moving on to cost of revenue, which we expect to be $7.9 billion to $8.3 billion next quarter, this range primarily relates to the unit variability assumed the hardware revenue. In Surface, we are still in the early stages of the lifecycle. As you know, there are many things that go into bringing hardware to market, including both variable and fixed cost. We are intensely focused on building volumes and achieving scale to cover these costs and get to profitability. As you think about the economic model for Xbox, you should keep in mind that console margins are just one aspect of the overall platform's financial performance. Attach of games, accessories Xbox LIVE services also contribute to the economic model. We expect the launch of Xbox One to be the biggest in Xbox history. And we feel great about our ability to continue our leadership position in the living room.

Moving on to operating expenses, we expect OpEx to grow 6% to 8% to $8.5 billion to $8.6 billion. We also reaffirm our full-year guidance of $31.3 billion to $31.9 billion. We continue to invest in innovative experiences for our customers, while remaining focused on expense. We still expect full-year capital expenditures to be about $6.5 billion, even though we only spent $1.2 billion in the first quarter. Given the nature of the investments, there is variability from quarter to quarter due to our success-based approach, as well as the timing of delivery and completion. We expect our tax rate for the full year to be between 18% and 20%, depending on our geographical mix of earnings. When adjusting for tech guarantees and product deferrals, we expect unearned revenue to be roughly in line with historical trends.

So, in summary, I'm really pleased with our results this quarter. It was a great start to the fiscal year, as we executed and delivered across all of our businesses. We are on track with implementing the transformation of the Company around the One Microsoft strategy. And at the same time are not missing a beat in executing faster. And as we look forward to the second quarter, our enterprise business will remain strong. And we are also set up for a fantastic holiday season, with Surface, Xbox One, and a host of devices from our partners, which will allow us to reach new customers and drive increased engagement.

With that, I'll turn it to Chris and then we'll take your questions.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. And with that we are going to move on to the Q &A. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon, Amy and Chris. Thanks for the additional details. I know everyone appreciates the forward-looking details. My question is on the commercial revenue. Obviously an impressive number in a seasonally soft Q1. Your guidance assumes also a continued good trajectory. Maybe if you can walk through why you think you are outgrowing your peers and what has led to this double-digit number.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Brent, for that question. When I think about the commercial business, and focus on our unearned revenue growth of 14%, plus our bookings growth, which was quite strong as well at 6%, I think about the road map. The strength of the commitments that customers are making is really for the forward-looking. It is a three-year commitment to the Microsoft platform, both to our cloud and on-prem solutions, the breadth and strength of that road map in our offerings. And I think in many ways that's what gives us the confidence that we are outperforming our peers. And also I think it speaks a lot to the innovation in the road map we've shown. Whether it is for Azure, Office 365, or our broader server portfolio, I do feel quite good about both our competitive position and our ability to execute. I think we did a great job in the field this quarter remaining focused on delivering what we needed to deliver to our customers. And we were quite pleased.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi. Thanks, guys, and congrats on a great quarter. I just want to focus in on Xbox and Xbox platform. Amy, I wonder if you could give us maybe some color on how it performed this quarter. But, in particular, as you look into the December quarter here, obviously you gave that gross margin guidance but I was wondering if you could talk high level about how you're approaching the Xbox One launch, say, versus Xbox 360, from a perspective of how you're pricing it relative to COGS. And how the build of Xbox One looks versus 360.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Phil. I think it's a great question and it gives me the opportunity to talk about the breadth of the portfolio that we will have to offer at holiday. And then talk a little bit about the gross margin profile and philosophy we have about those products. We are excited that we will have a great value offer at holiday with Xbox 360. And we will also have a great choice with our innovative Xbox One platform to really give us a good breadth rolling into holiday of selections across price points. We did, with Xbox One, make a decision to really enable a first-class experience out of the box. There is connect, there's a headset, and there's the console. And depending on where you are around the globe, there may be a game included as part of bundled for geographic interest.

As I said, the best way always to think about the life value of the Xbox plan is over its lifecycle. I'm excited about the increased opportunity that Xbox One allows us to attach more and different services beyond what we've historically thought of as simply a gaming platform. And when I think about the opportunity going forward, it is important in Q2 to realize that will impact our gross margin in the short term. But winning the platform at holiday, and our positioning to do that, allows us to grow profitability in a far different way over the lifecycle. So, hopefully, that helps.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan Chase.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thanks. Amy, billings were about what we modeled for the quarter. But deferred revenue was about $700 million less -- than we expected, anyway. Which was equal to the upside in revenue. So I'm just curious, did you end up recognizing a greater portion of revenue upfront this quarter than you normally would? I realize, given how you organize revenue, the question to be said is, was the transactional portion of the revenue in the commercial segment greater than it is typically this quarter?

CHRIS SUH: Hi, John, this is Chris. I'm going to jump in a little bit and I'll let Amy add on. I think the way to think about -- the way we think about it is, we did see growth across annuity and non-annuity in the business. But also the changing dynamic is the mix of the dollars that are going into unearned revenue. As we bill more contracts in some of our subscription offerings, that also changes the nature of the term, if you think about one-year subscription offerings and things like this. That has a little bit effect on the unearned balance, as well.

AMY HOOD: Let me add little bit because I would've said, John, both of those things you said are true, and both are good. Which is, I do think our unearned balance, growing 14% year over year was better than we actually had expected, from our perspective. And we also saw very good non-annuity performance within the quarter, particularly in Office and in SQL. Which, I think, are very good signs, we believe, for both, to see the strength broad-based. As you know, the annuity portion tends to be related to large customers making long-term commitments. Some of the non-annuity is exciting because it tends to be smaller customers who've decided to go ahead and upgrade to the most recent version of Office, which is also encouraging.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

KEN WONG, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, guys. This is Ken Wong for Walter. We wanted to focus a bit on Windows. The OEM business was down just 7% this quarter versus down 15% last quarter, in what seemed like a really -- you guys had a lot of pressure on ASPs and what-not. What drove the quick turnaround from quarter to quarter? Maybe if you could just dig in a little bit there.

AMY HOOD: Let me try to break it up a little bit, Ken, to make sure I understand, and can get a chance to talk about the overall performance. Business was better than we expected. So, actually ASPs were probably higher than many people had modeled and that we had expected due to mix. Growing 6% in the Pro segment was both better than we expected and probably better than many people had considered. In the consumer segment, the minus 22%, and taking out China to minus 17%, I think is generally overall, when you take those two numbers, probably in line with most of the device level estimates for PCs we've seen across the industry, and from some of our peers reporting in the system. I do think we were impacted by some inventory levels. They did come down a bit actually this quarter, as w ell. So, I think overall, we do think that things are probably more stable in the business segment and encouraging. And in consumer and developed markets particularly were better than we had seen.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking the question. You saw a real market uptick in the advertising revenue with the search advertising revenue. Any particular catalyst you could point us to in what really catalyzed that part of the business and how sustainable that's going to be on a go forward basis?

AMY HOOD: Sure. Thanks, Keith. A couple of things. It was driven, as you noted, both by RPS improvements and volume improvements, which is encouraging. I also think underlying that are some real technical improvements we've made within the search engine. The algos are better, and the investments we're making are really allowing us to monetize at a higher level. We also saw some strength in a few other geos, which helped increase the performance there. So, I do believe that trend we expect to continue into Q2.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, great. Thank you, Amy and Chris. I just was wondering, you talked about the entry of a lot of new SKUs that are coming out for the holiday season. As we start thinking about building our OEM models, how do we think about ASPs for this 8-inch and below category that you referenced there is a lot of product coming out with?

AMY HOOD: Good question, Heather. Let me talk about, first, the importance of the breadth of the offers that we are putting into market. With Windows 8.1, one of the focus we had was to expand both the opportunity for screen sizes and to reach new price points, and to cover really from the smallest to the largest with touch and non-touch. And I think our ability to work with partners and some of the sales execution we've seen in the field has led to have a broad opportunity at retail for holiday for devices. It is important. I do hope -- in some ways this is a question that is a bit awkward. You always want to say it's good to have ASPs go up. Transparently going forward, as we make more progress, especially in the smaller screen sizes, we should expect units to go up, and be very excited about that in terms of share. But ASPs would trend down. I don't think that will have a material -- our guidance does not assume a material impact to ASPs in Q2. But over the long term, I actually do understand the question and would expect ASPs to be on that trend line, assuming we are successful in those lower-end device sizes.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. And, Amy, thank you for giving so much more data and guidance. We appreciate it. Couple of quick attach question. You had said that the consumer Office last quarter was going to be down roughly 5% lower than the PCs due to the move to subscription. You said the attach was higher this quarter. Should we think that the dip was roughly in line with that?

CHRIS SUH: Hi, Mark, this is Chris. Let me try to clarify the numbers just so we are all on the same page. We did say consumer Office did decline this quarter. Last quarter, you're right, we said about 5 points of impact. And so the impact, indeed, was about what we expected. But with the increase in attach, they tended to offset each other in the end. And so the numbers came in pretty much as expected. So, I think that's the right way to think about it.

AMY HOOD: But, of course, I can let Chris -- I'm going to add a little to the answer, sorry. Mark, I do think it is important for us to continue to reiterate the importance of the success of the Office 365 Home Premium SKU from a strategic standpoint. We have done a very good job. And I would say as a mix percentage of the SKU, it continues to do even a little better than we had hoped in terms of execution at the end point in driving value. And while that does have an impact on the initial ASP of the SKU, the long-term lifetime value of that product, in my belief, given the always up to date, first to see innovation, use across multi end points, inclusion of Skype, inclusion of SkyDrive, really does allow for a higher lifetime value, and ultimately a happy customer. And, so, I really am encouraged by our progress and our execution there.

MARK MOERDLER: Beautiful. One other quick question. Any sense for what commercial licensing would've been if not for the move to cloud and subscription? Does it make a material change at this point?

CHRIS SUH: No, the best way to think about that, Mark, is, if you look at -- it's not an exact offset, but when I talked about the commercial business all up, I gave the construct around products, like commercial Office, commercial Server, as all up across both on-prem and commercial. So, we talked about Office growing 11% across both commercial licensing and commercial other, in aggregate. If you look at the specific segment, you will see that Office in the commercial licensing segment actually grew 6%. So you can see that we are having outsized growth in the commercial other segment, which is Office 365. So that maybe helps at least dimensionalize the size of the growth in relative terms.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect. I do appreciate it. Thank you both.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura Securities.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Just to follow-up on Mark's question, I believe there was a slide at [STAM] that showed about $150 million of negative impact in the quarter from the move to the cloud. Which, in and of itself, it's about 1% of revenue, so it's not a very big deal. And I think most of that was from Office versus server and tools. So, if you say it is about as expected -- I'm just looking for some clarification here -- is really the only impact we're seeing in the Office segment versus server and tools? Or was there much impact in that part of the business from the move to subscription?

AMY HOOD: Rick, let me clarify. The $150 million, you're right, was actually just related to the consumer Office segment. And had no broader connotation beyond that. So, that $150 million in a quarter on consumer Office actually does have a meaningful impact to the growth of that, especially versus PCs. So, that being said, obviously we've talked about the momentum in our broad Office 365 revenue. It is a bigger impact across not just Office, because I think that is actually not the way of thinking about Office 365's impact. There it is really around Exchange, Lync, SharePoint. And the broad server impact there is actually more meaningful than its impact on maybe Office client on the commercial side.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan, Jefferies.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks a lot. I have two questions. Just, first, on the device and consumer licensing business. Your forecast for Q2 suggests a moderating decline. And I was curious as to whether on the corporate OEM side, if you will, that is just a reflection of the ongoing stabilization trend. Or do you also expect to see improvement on the consumer OEM side? And related to that, how do you think about the impact of the end-of-life of XP on the corporate OEM side? Do you think that the improvement is completely unrelated to that end-of-life forthcoming or do you think there could be some impact related to that? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Great. Let me divide up the question. I think, as you said, two parts. Our Q2 guidance for devices and consumer licensing really says that the trends we saw in Q1 on both sides continue in Q2. So I think that is an important distinction, as you noted and asked for clarification on. So I hope that is helpful on that component. And when it comes to end-of-life of XP, I tend to think about that more on the VL side, as well, and the strength there which would be in the commercial reporting segments. We continue to make progress on the XP install base. And now a little over 75% of the PCs are running 7. And so I do think, as we continue to get to end-of-life of XP you will see the impact more on the VL side of the business than you would in the device and consumer licensing segment.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thank you very much, that's helpful. And maybe one quick follow-up. Just on the Office business overall in the commercial segment, if you think about units, whether licensed or 365, when you just think of the aggregate pool of units, you alluded to it before, but did that perform in line with your expectation? Or was it actually slightly better on a unit basis? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: It was slightly better, Ross, is the best way of thinking about that, from a unit perspective.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Thank you very much. Congratulations.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: I was wondering if you could address the conditions in China in a little bit more detail, not just on the consumer but also in the commercial, as well as what your expectations might be given the lifting of the ban on game consoles for Xbox there. And also if you could just address some of what you're seeing in terms of your commercial cloud adoption outside of the US. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: I'll take the first part of the question, Ed. So, yes, as I said on the call, our macro conditions in China, which I think is consistent with what some of the other companies have reported, as well, have been challenging. Our total revenue across all of our business, including the PC-related businesses, were down year over year. And I think that overall is impacting our results in China all up. I think the second part of your question was related to commercial cloud? Sorry, can you repeat your second question?

ED MAGUIRE: Sure. I was wondering about Xbox expectations there, but also the trends of commercial cloud adoption in areas outside of the US.

AMY HOOD: We haven't really talked specifically about our expectations for China on the Xbox. But let me take the second half of that question. Our performance in both Office 365 and Azure has actually been quite good both in the US -- to your question -- and outside the US. Part of the reason that you have seen us investing on the capital expense side is to continue to build out the opportunity set, because we are seeing good demand outside the US. And I do think our ability to be competitive there is just as high as it is here. So, we've already seen that growth.

ED MAGUIRE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Good afternoon. I wanted to drill a little bit into how you're thinking about holiday on the consumer hardware side, and specifically just expectations around Surface. And then, also, any insight or color you think in terms of what your expectations are with RT versus Pro. Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Jason. I think overall for holiday, given our guidance, we clearly do expect a healthy holiday performance across the portfolio. I say that because we do have offerings that provide great value, from having Surface be one, RT still in market, Surface 2, Surface 2 Pro, plus Xbox 360, plus Xbox One, really does provide both value portfolio, and those who want the latest and greatest experience have something covered. The guidance does include good performance across all of those product lines. We did see, I think as Chris and I both talked about, a lot of progress in sales execution on Surface in particular this quarter. And that does give us more confidence about our ability to execute again well in Q2. In particular, as you noted, RT did do quite well this quarter. And I look forward to seeing that continue with the Surface 2 device, as well, at holiday.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thank you very much for all the details, as well. Maybe my math skills have gotten horribly weak, but I just took the midpoint, Amy, of your revenue guidance for the different line items, and also the midpoint of your cost of revenue inputs, and the midpoint of your OpEx. And I come up with what looks to be about a 10% reduction to where I think most sales side models are. Maybe I'm doing -- I'm hoping that I did something wrong here. But if that is the case, I get about 29% op margin relative to the 33% or so that you did last year. So can you just walk us through what are the items that you are assuming in your cost structure which effectively makes the op income flat. Although you are getting good revenue growth rate. I just wonder if there are any one-time items or if it is just emblematic of a shift in your business model to devices and consumer, especially with Nokia going forward. Wonder if we should not be thinking about op margins but really op income growth rate? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Kash. I think the one thing I would urge you to do as you think about the guidance we gave is looking specifically at the DNC hardware guidance. As well as making sure you are mapping the COGS very specifically to whatever assumption you are making in DNC hardware. Given the business model of Xbox, that can and will have an impact in Q2 to the overall gross margin structure. So, as you think through that, I think that is probably one of the assumptions that it may sound like using the midpoint could lead you a bit off of where I would have expected.

KASH RANGAN: Got it, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. I just wanted to follow on from Jason's question earlier on. Can you talk a little bit about where you see the improved success, and the sales execution success, on the Surface? Is it commercial? Is it consumer? And what is driving the improvement there? And how much is the improved revenue run rate driven also by the fact that the channel needed to be ready for the holiday season? Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Hi, Raimo. Thanks for the question. As we talked about, especially for this last quarter, Surface we saw two things I'll mention. Which is, popularity of the Surface 32-gigabyte RT device. That one was more successful this last quarter. And we actually saw demand increase in both commercial and in the education customer segment, as well. So, we did see some improvement across both those segments.

AMY HOOD: Yes. I would say that another way, is that it was in retail and in education, was really our RT performance.

CHRIS SUH: Yes, right. Sorry. That's what I meant, actually.

AMY HOOD: So, I just want to make sure that was clear. It really was better execution at retail and in edu. And I still look forward to building a commercial channel, which we are just trying to do as we continue to add resellers to our model.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Perfect, thank you.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks so much. I had two quick ones. One was the SQL Server success continues to be very impressive, particularly relative to the field. So I'm wondering where you are seeing the most success there. Is that market share gains? Is that pricing's getting you into some new markets? If you could provide any color there that would be held. And then when is your expectation for the next update on Nokia?

AMY HOOD: Great. Let me take the second one first because it is the easiest. We still do expect the transaction to close in the first calendar quarter of 2014. And post closing, if there are any EPS impact changes to what we said before, we will give them post closing. So, now back to your original question on SQL, that is a terrific one to get to talk about. Our growth there is, as you said, both share growth and revenue growth. It's happened, I think, generally both in BI, which we've seen a lot of traction with. I don't know if you had a chance to see some of our Power View announcements recently. Our ability to span from the end user to the hardest big data problems really has resonated, both in the market and with industry analysts who've taken, I think, a strong position that we're the real market leader there. The other thing I would say is a very healthy performance of our premium SKUs. Our premium SKUs have continued to provide market growth and I think are competing quite well with the competition.

BRENDAN BARNICLE: Great, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen and Company.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you very much, and good afternoon, guys. Just two questions. First, Amy, if I recall correctly I believe last quarter you had mentioned an expectation for double-digit annuity growth in fiscal '14. Is that still how you're thinking about the annuity part of the business? And secondly, the year-over-year cloud revenue growth you reported was certainly impressive. But I was wondering if you could shed some light, perhaps, on how much of Azure billings or revenue are incremental versus cannibalistic?

AMY HOOD: Two good questions. I do expect our annuity growth, and the guidance we gave it still does assume double-digit annuity growth going forward. And I think our performance this quarter gives me confidence that the guidance in Q2 is the right one, given our strengths and our competitive position. Secondly, on cloud revenue, your question gives me an opportunity to talk about the importance of our hybrid cloud. Within especially our server business, our ability to power the cloud, whether you want to run it, you want a service provider to run it, or you want to use ours, is really an incredibly powerful story. And I think, in some ways, whether or not it is cannibalizing becomes somewhat difficult. What we have generally found right now is that it has been often additive. And if you look at our server growth all up, which we tried to provide to help give some parameters around that to give some confidence that we are both growing the base and providing additive opportunity, I think that's the number I would probably look to, to see the impact there.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Kirk Materne, Evercore.

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Thank you very much for fitting me in. Two quick ones for you, Amy, on the commercial cloud offerings. First round Office 365 you mentioned you've seen pretty good uptake even outside the US. I was interested in just your ability to monetize Office 365 in some of the emerging markets that have been challenging over time for Office. And then, secondly, as a follow-up to Greg's question on server, within Azure how much of the uptake in Azure is coming from existing Microsoft logos versus bringing on net new logos onto the platform? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Great, thanks, Kirk. You're talking about two things. I do think -- it is interesting. Maybe the best example of how to think about us moving beyond our traditional markets is the fact that we were the first to commit to a data center in China, a market that we've historically had challenges monetizing at a high level. We went there, we are going there with Office 365 and Azure. We look forward to being able to make progress. We are investing both headcount and capital dollars, because we do believe this provides an interesting opportunity for us to begin monetizing in markets that have been harder for us to grow maybe with our more traditional business models.

Secondly, with Azure, I think we've seen both. But the thing I would say is what has been really helpful is that, as we make it easier to attach Azure services to our normal rhythm in the field through our enterprise agreements and through volume licensing, it provides a really helpful way and a really easy selling motion to provide customers flexibility. We add it in the normal rhythm of the sales motion. We allow people to try, use, and buy. And that has served us well in terms of being able to expose Azure to more and more customers in a normal selling cycle. So, I think that's probably one of the better ways. It's the same actual selling rhythm we've used with Office 365 so successfully.

And with that, I wanted to say thank you. I know that this quarter we changed reporting segments, and that requires a lot of work. So, thank you for all the work put in to understand our transition that we are trying to make as a company. And, so, let me turn it back to Chris to say his final words.

CHRIS SUH: That wraps up today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences. For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast and you'll be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. And thanks for joining us today.

AMY HOOD: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's teleconference. You may disconnect your lines at this time. And thank you for your participation.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | icnp : Consumer Goods | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Consumer Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | itech : Technology | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131028e9ao0024e
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,420 words
   PD
18 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's fiscal year 2013 fourth-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, please disconnect at this time. And I would now like to turn the meeting over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, you may begin.

   TD
CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, operator.

On our website, Microsoft.com/investor, is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 18, 2014.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements that are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Before I hand the call over to Amy, I'd like to remind you that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Also, unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of the revenue deferrals and recognitions related to the Office and Windows upgrade offers, the $900 million charge for inventory adjustments primarily related to the new Surface RT pricing we announced earlier this week, and the goodwill impairment charge from last year. You can find the details of the adjustments and reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures in our financial summary slide deck.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Amy.

AMY HOOD, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Chris, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today.

In many ways, our fourth-quarter results reflect the trends we saw developing throughout the fiscal year. The consumer x86 PC market declined, as users continued to prioritize devices with touch and mobility. At the same time, we saw continued strength in our enterprise products and cloud solutions, and increased adoption of our consumer services.

This quarter, our Windows business declined as the device market continued to evolve beyond the traditional PC. We are working to transition the business into this modern era of computing, taking advantage of the new scenarios enabled by Windows 8. As we've said before, given the complexity of the ecosystem, this journey will take time, but we continue to make incremental progress.

In June, we released the public preview of Windows 8.1. It blends the desktop and modern experience, and has new features and improvements in areas such as personalization, search, built-in apps, and cloud connectivity. Windows 8.1 will be a free update to existing Windows 8 users, and will be made available to OEMs in August, less than one year since launch.

To increase and improve retail distribution, we entered into a strategic partnership with Best Buy to create a Windows Store in over 600 Best Buy locations. These store-within-a-store locations provide a large-scale, hands-on consumer experience that showcases Microsoft devices and services.

The percentage and breadth of touch devices available at retail continues to improve. The first 8-inch Windows tablet became available at retail a few weeks ago. It has legacy application compatibility, includes Microsoft Office, and retails for less than $400. We expect additional compelling small-screen devices to be available in the coming months.

Less than a year ago, we launched Surface RT and Surface Pro, each with a unique value proposition. Surface is one part of our journey to bring innovative, compelling Windows devices to market in the modern era of computing. With each step, we analyze our progress and fine-tune our action plan as needed.

Here's what we did this quarter. We reduced the price of Surface RT by $150 to $349 per device. As a result of this price change, as well as inventory adjustments for related parts and accessories, we recorded a $900 million charge to our income statement. While this resulted in a negative $0.07 impact on earnings, we believe this pricing adjustment will accelerate Surface RT adoption, and position us better for long-term success.

We also increased retail distribution this quarter. Surface is now available in 29 markets and 10,000 retail locations.

We expanded the availability of Surface to our business and institutional customers. Through our new channel expansion program, commercial customers are able to purchase Surface devices from authorized resellers in the US. Over the next few months, we will authorize commercial distributors and resellers in more countries.

So, in summary on Windows, we are working hard with our partners to gain share in the evolving and growing device market. I want to be very clear. We know we have to do better, and that's one reason we made the strategic and organizational changes we made last week.

With over 1.5 billion Windows users around the world, a transition of this magnitude takes time. We are confident we are moving in the right direction.

Now, on to our enterprise business, which continues to be strong. We closed out the year with record unearned revenue of $22.4 billion, as businesses continue to make long-term commitments to the Microsoft platform. Within our Server and Tool business, we continue to make significant improvements in performance, reliability, and scalability with SQL Server. As a result, customers are increasingly moving mission-critical and BI workloads to the platform. While SQL Server has been the unit share leader in the market for some time, it has consistently outgrown the market over the past 12 months, and is now the second-largest database in revenue share.

We recently announced the next versions of Windows Server and System Center, which will continue to deliver on our Cloud OS vision. With new features and enhancements in virtualization, storage, and networking, we are empowering our customers to more efficiently manage their application services, and their private, hosted, and public cloud infrastructures.

In Windows Azure, we continue to innovate and broaden our cloud platform offerings. We recently announced an important enterprise partnership with Oracle, that will enable customers to run Oracle software on Hyper-V, and in Windows Azure. In June, we announced the public preview of Windows Azure in China, operated by 21Vianet, making Microsoft the first multinational organization to offer public cloud services in China. As a result of the greater choice and flexibility, we are seeing increased customer traction, both in terms of an increase in enterprise customers, but also, the average deal size.

Our productivity solutions continue to be a top priority for CIOs. As enterprise customers look to modernize their productivity infrastructures, they are increasingly turning to Office 365. We recently announced the expansion of commercial availability into several new markets, making Office 365 available in over 125 markets worldwide. I'm pleased to share that momentum is accelerating, and Office 365 is now on a $1.5 billion annual revenue run rate.

During the quarter, we saw ongoing momentum for our consumer services such as Office 365 Home Premium, SkyDrive, Xbox LIVE, Skype, and Outlook.com. By giving consumers rich, high-value experiences across productivity, communications, and entertainment, these services can help give our products, and our overall ecosystem, a strategic advantage in today's marketplace, where the line between home and work is blurring for many customers. Our unified communication offerings of Skype and Lync are great examples of where consumer and enterprise products can be mutually reinforcing, and create more opportunity for Microsoft.

In summary, the fourth quarter continued many of the trends we saw developing throughout the fiscal year. We continued to make important strides toward our strategy, to create a family of devices and services for individuals and businesses, to empower them for the activities they value the most. Some of our investments are already paying off, while others reinforce the foundation that positions us for future growth and profitability.

With that, I'll hand it over to Chris to give more details about this quarter, before I come back to share thoughts on the first quarter of fiscal 2014.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks Amy.

First, I'm going to review our overall results, and then I'll move on to the details by business segment.

Revenue was up 3% to $19.2 billion and operating income declined 11% to $6.2 billion. Earnings per share declined 19%, to $0.59. Foreign exchange had a $257 million, or 1 percentage point, negative impact to revenue this quarter, and a $177 million or 3 percentage point negative impact to net income.

From a geographic perspective, revenue in the US was strong relative to other regions. Annuity revenue continued to be strong, growing 13%. We had record unearned revenue of $22.4 billion, and our contracted-not-billed balance was approximately $21 billion.

Now to the results for the Windows Division, where revenue declined 5% this quarter. The x86 PC market continued to decline. While business PCs showed modest growth, we estimate consumer PCs declined more than 20%.

As a result, OEM revenue declined 15%. OEM revenue lagged the PC market, primarily due to market dynamics in China and lower ASPs, reflecting the introduction of our small screen touch offerings and current-period incentive programs.

Non-OEM revenue grew 22%, driven by sales of Surface, and continued double-digit growth in volume licensing, as businesses across all areas and segments continue to value the Windows platform. This quarter we saw continued progress in the transition from Windows XP, and today, almost three-quarters of enterprise desktops are running Windows 7. Volume licensing of Windows delivered more than $4 billion in revenue this year.

Next, I'll walk through our Server and Tools business, which posted another solid quarter with 9% revenue growth and double-digit bookings growth. Product revenue grew 9%, driven primarily by growth in premium versions of Windows Server and SQL Server. Our cloud momentum continues with strong customer adoption, upsell to higher level services, and increased innovation.

We released a number of Azure services, including Mobility, Media, and Website services, and a growing number of customers are already using multiple services for their cloud platform needs. We added 25% more enterprise customers this quarter and now over 50% of the Fortune 500 are using Windows Azure.

In the data center, System Center revenue grew 14% and the premium version of Windows Server continued to see significant revenue growth. Hyper-V, our virtualization product, continued to gain market share over the past year. Companies such as Aston Martin and Grant Thornton continue to look to Hyper-V and System Center to deliver their critical business applications.

In our data platform business, SQL Server revenue grew 16%, and again outpaced the broader market. Last month, we announced SQL Server 2014, the next version of our data platform, which has in-memory capabilities built right into the core database. We also announced Power BI for Office 365, a cloud based BI solution that combines the power of SQL Server with the familiarity of Office.

Now, I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division, where revenue grew 2%. Within that, business revenue grew 7%, driven by 10% growth in annuity revenue. Consumer revenue declined 27%.

Results in our Consumer business were driven by declines in the consumer x86 PC market and the shift to subscription, offset in part by attach gains. As our customers transition to this new subscription model, there is a short-term impact to revenue, due to the changes in the timing of revenue recognition, but over time, we expect our revenue to grow, and become more recurring and predictable.

With the subscription model, we are providing greater value to our customers, through frequent product updates, new cloud services, and attractive pricing. We saw strong early adoption of the subscription offering and now have more than 1 million Office 365 Home Premium subscribers. It has been a big year for Office 365, and as Amy said, it is now on a $1.5 billion annual revenue run rate. This was our strongest quarter ever with more net seat adds in the quarter than all of fiscal 2012. We are seeing strong upsell with one in three Office 365 seats now running premium workloads.

In terms of our productivity offerings, we continued to see strength with Exchange, SharePoint and Lync, each growing double digits. Lync revenue grew over 30%, driving our enterprise communication business to deliver more than $1 billion revenue this fiscal year. Additionally, we met a key milestone in the Lync and Skype integration, and users can now seamlessly communicate in voice and IM across the two services.

Next, I'll move on to the Online Services Division, where revenue grew 9% and operating performance improved by $107 million, or 22%. Online advertising revenue was up 11%, driven by both rate and volume improvements in our search business.

In the Entertainment & Devices Division, revenue grew 8%. Xbox LIVE transaction revenue grew nearly 20%, and is providing economic opportunities for publishers in this soft console market. This quarter, we announced our next generation gaming and entertainment console, Xbox One. And at E3, we showcased an impressive line of games that will be coming to the new platform.

Progress with Windows Phone continues, as our partners including Nokia, Samsung, Huawei and HTC are delivering new phones at a broader range of price points. Telefonica also recently announced an enhanced marketing effort to promote Windows Phone 8 devices. And with the recent Sprint announcement, Windows Phone 8 devices will now be available on all major US operators.

Now I'll cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 14%, principally driven by Surface and growth in cloud infrastructure. Operating expenses grew 9%, primarily related to sales and marketing for Surface and Windows 8. This quarter, our CapEx increased as we continued to invest in our cloud infrastructure and expand our geographic footprint to support the growth in our online businesses. And finally, we returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.

Now, I'll turn the call back to Amy for our outlook.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Chris.

Before I discuss our expectations for the first quarter, I'd like to spend a few minutes discussing last week's announcement on One Microsoft. If you haven't already done so, I encourage you to read our Strategy Memo and Steve Ballmer's email to employees. Microsoft is rallying behind a single strategy.

As part of this, we implemented a new organizational structure that will allow us to advance our strategy more quickly and more efficiently. We are currently in the process of determining what changes, if any, will be made to our reporting segments.

In late September, we will host a financial analyst event here in Redmond, at which point we will discuss our strategy, our new organizational structure, and any changes to our reporting segments. We will also give more thoughts on our full-year outlook at that time. Please look for additional details from Chris over the coming weeks.

Now, moving on to our expectations for the first quarter. In Windows, we expect revenue to continue to be negatively impacted by the decline in the consumer x86 PC market. Excluding the impact of the Windows Upgrade Offer in the prior year, OEM revenue should account for approximately 65% of the division's revenue, and should decline mid-teens. Non-OEM revenue should account for approximately 35% of the division's revenue, primarily reflecting revenue from volume licensing and Surface, including Surface RT at its new price point.

When updating your models, please keep in mind that in first quarter of fiscal 2013, prior to the launch of Surface, OEM accounted for 75% of the division's total revenue.

Within Server and Tools, product revenue, including transactional and multi-year licensing, is about 80% of the division's total, while enterprise services is the remaining 20%. We expect both product and enterprise services revenue to grow high single-digits.

In the Microsoft Business Division, we expect business revenue to account for approximately 85% of the division's total, while consumer revenue should account for the remaining 15%. Business revenue should grow mid single-digits, reflecting low double-digit growth in annuity, and the shift from transaction licensing to cloud services.

With the ongoing shift to subscriptions, consumer revenue will lag the x86 consumer PC market by approximately 5 percentage points, even as attach continues to grow. This excludes the impact of the Office Upgrade Offer in the prior year. As a reminder, Business revenue accounted for 80% of total revenue in the prior year.

In the Online Services Division, we expect revenue to grow low double-digits, reflecting growth in search revenue, partially offset by lower display revenue.

With the Entertainment and Devices Division, we expect revenue to decline low single-digits, as the industry awaits the next generation consoles.

For the first quarter, cost of goods sold will reflect Surface, as well as the impact of the capital expenditures we made in fiscal 2013. As a result, COGS should grow over 20%. Other Income and Expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense, and the net cost of hedging. In the current low interest rate environment, we expect these items to generally offset.

For the first quarter, regarding CapEx, we expect continued growth in our investments in our global datacenters. Excluding the impact of the Windows and Office Upgrade Offers, unearned revenue should roughly follow historical seasonal patterns.

Now, turning briefly to the full fiscal year. We are reducing our operating expense guidance. We now expect fiscal year 2014 operating expenses to be $31.3 billion to $31.9 billion, with growth in the low-teens for the first quarter. We expect our tax rate to be between 18% and 21% for the full fiscal year.

In summary, as we look back on the year, fiscal 2013 was a pivotal time for Microsoft. With Windows 8, we increased our addressable markets. Our OEM partners have started capitalizing on the new opportunities, delivering a wide range of new Windows hardware from phones, to tablets, to new PCs.

We extended our first-party devices through Surface and the announcement of Xbox One. We modernized productivity with Office 365, changing our business model. For the first time, both businesses and consumers can now access Office through subscription.

We took share from competitors in key enterprise markets. We added several new features, including infrastructure-as-a-service capabilities, to Windows Azure. With Azure, we are fundamentally changing the way businesses manage their IT infrastructure. And, we continued the expansion of our datacenter footprint, which enables us to deliver high-value services and experiences globally.

As we look to fiscal 2014, we're focused on a single strategy. With our new organizational structure, we believe we will be able to execute more quickly and more efficiently, driving long-term growth, profitability, and shareholder value.

With that, I'll turn it back to Chris, and we'll take some questions.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Amy. We want to questions from as many of you as possible, so please just stick to one question. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Amy, I'm wondering if you could talk a little bit about -- you talked about COGS in Q1 and you don't mention COGS for the rest of the year. Obviously, you have Xbox One launching in the second quarter. Could you give us some guidance about how we should think about that product having an impact on margins, maybe comparing it to the 360 or anything else you could do to help us directionally with the COGS impacts beyond Q1?

AMY HOOD: As we transition to a device and services Company I think you should keep in mind that we expect CapEx to continue to grow as we ramp our business. Specifically to Xbox One, and a new generation of consoles and launches, I think you should think about that as you think about all console lifecycles, and so keep that in mind as you model COGS and seasonality throughout the year.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Walter. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Can you give us some color on the short-term revenue impact of the move to the cloud? Is it just MBD? Is also in Server and Tools? How does the license revenue convert to cloud revenue?

AMY HOOD: Mark, thanks for that question. It is primarily in MBD where we had a higher percentage of our revenue, but that was accounted for transactionally, both on the business side and in the consumer side. So, I think that's why you've seen us in our outlook for Q1, try to start to explain that transition to consumer by saying that we expect it to lag the PC market by approximately 5 percentage points while attach increases.

MARK MOERDLER: Is there a similar lag on the transactional side on the enterprise?

AMY HOOD: Yes. You can see it when we gave the guidance for the Business segment. We said 10% growth in the annuity, and so that would clearly say that part of that is a transactional move from recognized upfront revenue to multiyear licensing agreements.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a follow-up on actually both those two. First, Amy obviously when you go to a subscription model you have less upfront, lower billings that first year versus license. Wondered if you give us sort of a backfill, where a $1 of cloud or Office 365 revenue would have been, in that first year would have been $3 relative to license. Just so we can try to backfill and help with that transition?

And also actually to Walter's question about Xbox COGS, maybe give us a sense for if this cycle really should be any different than previous cycles when you thought about pricing relative to the cost of the console itself. Thanks.

AMY HOOD: I'll try to remember both those questions. Let me take the second one, because it is the most recent in my mind. I would not think about this console cycle as being any different from prior cycles.

So, let me go back to the first question, which is can I give an example, I believe, of how to think about the transition from how we used to recognize revenue when we bought something upfront transactionally, versus buying a subscription from us.

I'll give an example, if you used to buy a license from us as a consumer, and paid us, for example $100 for ease of math, we recognized $100 in the period in which it was purchased. Now, if that same person went and bought Office 365 Home Premium and once it was activated, we would recognize the revenue over the period of the purchase, which is 12 months, and recognize it ratably.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I was wondering, focusing on the Server and Tools division, you guys came in with high single digit growth versus the guidance of low double digit growth. I was hoping you could walk us through some of the elements that perhaps transpired during the quarter, that caused that gap. Why you came in slightly below expectations there, and to what extent was the shift towards subscriptions a part of that.

AMY HOOD: Let me start by saying Server and Tools had a very good quarter. We continue to win share in virtualization with SQL Server, and continue to grow faster than both Oracle and IBM. Revenue did grow 9%, which importantly far outpaced the underlying hardware market. And over the period of the quarter we did see the hardware market fundamentally come in a bit lower than we had expected.

KEITH WEISS: Okay.

CHRIS SUH: Great, thanks, Keith. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Amy, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the incentive pricing you've been doing, not just on your own devices, like Chris mentioned in his prepared remarks, but also in the OEM market. If you haven't done incentive pricing at the OEM level, is there a chance we could see this strategy going forward, as a way to help lower the price points of consumer PCs and just try and spur demand? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Heather. I think it's a great question. I do think that we should think about incentives and all of our programs, including a small screen touch view that we have launched, as a way to increase the breadth of our Windows devices available across all price points.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Heather. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: I wonder if you have any perspective for us on, you've got Intel's Haswell chip shipping now, 8.1 coming in, probably, October. Are you sensing that OEMs are trying to manage inventories down for the time being and waiting cautiously? Intel suggested that maybe you are seeing some inventory liquidation, so I wondered if you could give us a sense for what you're hearing from the OEMs.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Rick. I think like the rest of the ecosystem, we are excited by the advances Intel has made with the fourth-generation Core processor, and we're also looking forward to the next Atom chip. But with launch a little less than a month ago, I think it's a little bit too early for me to say, and we'll have to wait and see how the quarter plays out.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Rick, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Amy, on the expenses, you're revising next year down, and it looks like your expense growth will materially slow from what it was this year. I'm just curious if you could help us understand where that's coming from and how you're thinking about that for next year.

AMY HOOD: Well actually, I think this is -- I feel good because I think in some ways, the re-org we announced last week, along with our increased focus and our new single strategy has allowed us to really look and say, what are the things we are going to put behind and focus to improve our execution, and so, I feel quite good about our ability to do that. And you've heard us say before, many of the reasons we did this re-org are about doing things better and more efficiently.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, thanks, Brent, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Amy, you had discussed your increased CapEx this quarter, and I was wondering if you could address the margin profile of your cloud services. In the comments, you discussed how you have higher datacenter cost, and what I'd like to understand is whether this is temporary, as you are ramping up this transition towards subscription business, or whether this actually changes the gross margin profile of these revenues. Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Ed, it's a good question. As we transition to a device and services Company, that is a multiyear commitment to evolve our business. You should expect that CapEx will continue to grow as we ramp that business.

With the expansion of Azure service offerings and the continued momentum in Office 365 as well as our consumer services, investing in this global footprint to meet customer demand is incredibly important, and quite strategic. And really, the question is, our ability to scale smartly, and that will create an advantage for us that we can pass along to our customers, and so I look forward to being able to move these datacenters globally to reach more people with more services.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Ed. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Amy, your CapEx this quarter was about $700 million or greater than $700 million, greater than you guided just 90 days ago. Why was there such a sudden change? I know, Chris explained why it was higher, and why it's going to be higher going forward, but why was it such a sudden change, so dramatically just in this quarter? And will this planned increase going forward affect your ability to do things like buy back shares?

AMY HOOD: In Q4, really as we continued to add Azure services, in fact we added over 80 this quarter, and, with the increased demand of Office 365 and the $1.5 billion annual run rate, up from just $1 billion in Q3, I would think about that as our ability to increase demand and meet demand globally with our services. And so, doing that in Q4 was important, because you want to be ahead of demand there.

JOHN DIFUCCI: So, was that something that was unexpected? You just had higher demand in Q4?

AMY HOOD: We're accelerating.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Okay. Okay, and will this affect your ability to buy back shares going forward, this increase in CapEx?

AMY HOOD: No. I mean, our cash -- we returned $2.9 billion this quarter, over $12 billion for the year, and we'll continue to take a balanced approach to capital allocation with those investments, acquisitions where they make sense and return of capital to shareholders.

CHRIS SUH: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Amy, congrats on your first conference call as CFO. My question had to do with the Windows side of the business. I know that you had an impairment charge for the inventory clearance, but even if I add that back in, it looks like the operating margins in the Windows business were sequentially lower, quite materially. Just wanted to get some insight into what drove that from the March quarter into the June quarter.

As you look further out into the operating margins of the Windows business, given that you're going to be focusing on Surface, how should we think about the margin structure? I guess you have a volume threshold to clear before you can start to make a margin, given that it's more of a product. But really two parts to that question. Love to get your insights, thank you so much.

AMY HOOD: Thanks, Kash. Let me address what I think were the two components. The first component felt like a general question about margins this quarter for Windows. As you said, they were impacted by Surface. And the second one is by the marketing investment we continue to make in the ecosystem to move it forward.

Overall, as you think about the Windows division as we report it, obviously since there is a mix between hardware and software, you should continue to expect margins to reflect that mix.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Kash. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Ross MacMillan, Jefferies.

ROSS MACMILLAN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Amy, I just wanted to drill into the billings growth where we adjust for the unearned, and it's a lot higher for the Server and Tools business, which is obviously going through a transition towards more a subscription arrangement, a lot higher there than in the MBD segment. I'm just wondered if you could compare and contrast why that might be.

I understand the consumer piece in MBD, but is the other piece of this just that there are more traditional licensing arrangements in MBD with enterprise customers, and so the impact from the transition is all the greater, and that's why you see that more subdued billings growth rate in MBD? Thanks.

AMY HOOD: Ross, thank you, it's always terrific when someone answers their own question. You actually have it exactly correct.

ROSS MACMILLAN: Great, thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Ross. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Just a follow-on, a bit on Kash's question. With Windows revenue coming in where it did, we're getting a few questions from investors about how Windows fared this quarter, relative to PC units. If we were to exclude tablet revenues both Surface and otherwise, just wondering, Amy, if you might be able to say roughly on a year-over-year basis how Windows PC revenue compared to the low double digit PC unit decline, cited by the IDCs and Gartners?

AMY HOOD: Chris actually covered that a bit in his comments, but let me reiterate, because I do understand the question, I think. Which is related to our OEM revenue, 15%, down 15%.

It was related, I believe to China. Lower ASPs on the small screen SKU that we mentioned, as well as some of the incentive programs that we had in place during the quarter.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Gregg. Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Amy, welcome on this first earnings call. I have a question on the business PC side, that was an area of strength for the Windows division, and you saw some growth there. Can you talk a little bit about if that's -- if you see that as a sustainable number, or is that still driven by the end of life for Windows XP? Thank you.

AMY HOOD: As we mentioned, our Windows business did make incremental progress in the business side, we expect that to continue in Q1. And, with the end-of-life of Windows XP next year, we expect continued migrations, and today in the enterprise, about three-quarters of desktops are already running Windows 7.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Perfect. Thank you.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you. Next question, please, operator.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Amy, contracted but unbilled was down sequentially from Q3, the first time we had seen that in the last two years. What's contributing to that shift?

AMY HOOD: Thank you. Actually I think our strong annuity growth, as well as our record unearned balance I do believe supports our belief that the strong performance of our multiyear licensing agreements is in place.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks. Operator, I think we have time for one more.

OPERATOR: Karl Keirstead, BMO Capital Markets.

KARL KEIRSTEAD, ANALYST, BMO CAPITAL MARKETS: I just wanted to ask a question about the mix shift to multiyear licensing across Microsoft, that's been a big part of the story. It's been up about 5 percentage points year-over-year each quarter in fiscal 2013. Amy, I'm just wondering, as we look forward to fiscal 2014, can we expect it to increase at that clip, or is the Software Assurance attach rate now getting high enough that that mix shift should start to moderate?

AMY HOOD: I continue to believe we'll have double-digit annuity growth next year, so I think that shift you've seen, especially as we continue to move people to our cloud services, will continue.

KARL KEIRSTEAD: Okay, thanks.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Karl. Okay, so that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at various investor conferences, and at our financial analyst meeting to be held in late September, where we'll share more details about our long-term strategy, new organizational structure, and outlook for the rest of the fiscal year. Thank you again for joining us today.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation, you may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130725e97i006pp
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,439 words
   PD
18 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft fiscal-year 2013 third-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question and answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager Investor Relations. Chris, you may begin.

CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Mary. Thanks, everyone for joining us this afternoon.

With me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Account Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. On our website Microsoft.com/investor is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until April 18, 2014.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements that are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Before I hand the call over to Peter I would like to remind you that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Also, unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of the revenue deferrals and recognition related to Windows, Office, and Xbox video games, and the expense related to the non-tax-deductible European Commission fine. Details of the adjustments can be found in our financial summary slide deck and press release.

And with that I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Chris and good afternoon, everyone.

Before I get into my comments about the quarter let me say a few words about the CFO transition we announced today. As we all do throughout our careers, at various times we assess our personal and professional goals and priorities. Sometimes we change jobs, sometimes we change companies, and sometimes we step back and focus on family and other personal goals. As we approach the end of our fiscal year, for me personally it's a good time to refocus my priorities to spend time with family in a way I haven't previously had the chance.

I feel great that the Company is on a path to an exciting future in devices and services, and I couldn't be more proud of and confident in the finance organization. I look forward to working with my successor on the transition, including getting out and meeting with many of you. I have truly enjoyed working with all of you.

And now on to the quarter. I'm pleased to report we drove revenue and earnings per share growth of 8%, even as we navigate an evolving device market. Our results reflect our diversified portfolio, as well as the investments we have made in key strategic areas. During the quarter we launched the new Office, our enterprise cloud services continued to gain traction, and we continued to take market share in the data platform.

Before I dive into more details on our progress in these areas, I want to address what's top of mind for many of you, which is our Windows business. There's no doubt the device market is evolving. Consumers and businesses are increasingly shifting their focus to touch and mobility, and as a result they want touch enabled computing devices that are ultra thin, lightweight, and have long battery life.

While Windows revenue has been impacted by the transition from the traditional PC to a new era of computing devices, the overall addressable markets are growing and we are excited by the opportunities ahead of us. We built Windows 8 with touch and mobility at the center of the experience which positions us well in this new era. However, the transition is complicated given the size of our hardware and software ecosystem. We still have an immense amount of work to do, yet we feel good about the foundation we have laid and are optimistic about the long-term success of Windows.

I want to take some time now to be clear about where we are in this journey and what we are doing to help drive this change. With Windows 8 we are setting a new accelerated pace for updates and innovation as we focus on making the Windows experience richer and better. Since launch we have delivered several important updates to improve our mail, storage, search, music, and video services. During the quarter we also added to the Surface family of devices with Surface Pro, which combines the performance capabilities of a PC with a modern tablet design.

Looking ahead we will release the next version of Windows, code-named Windows Blue, which further advances the vision of Windows 8, as well as responds to customer feedback. The assortment of touch-enabled devices that are built for Windows 8 by our OEM partners is also improving. Over the last couple of months we started seeing devices that take full advantage of Windows 8, and we expect to see more devices across more attractive price points over the coming months.

As part of this, we are also working closely with OEMs on a new suite of small touch devices powered by Windows. These devices will have competitive price points, partly enabled by our latest OEM offerings designed specifically for these smaller devices, and will be available in the coming months.

In the upcoming back-to-school selling season we expect to see devices that incorporate advances from throughout the supply chain, including chipsets. Haswell, Intel's fourth-generation Core processor, will help enable new devices that combine performance benefits with power savings. Later in the year we expect to see devices based on Intel's upcoming Bay Trail Atom processor, which promises to deliver tablets and hybrid PCs with extended battery life at competitive prices.

Today in the Windows store there are six times as many apps since launch, and we expect more to be added as we gain traction with Windows 8 adoption. In June we will host Build, our developer conference, where we will provide more tools and information for developers to build great Windows 8 apps.

In retail we are working to improve the consumer purchasing experience. Our initiatives include focused efforts to further educate and incentivize retail sales professionals and to have better in-store product differentiation.

In summary Windows is transforming to the new era of computing. As I said on our last earnings call, growth in Windows depends on our ability to give customers the exciting hardware they want at the price points they demand and a wider range of apps and services to meet their diverse needs. We are hard at work with our partners to meet these goals and we're confident we are moving in the right direction.

Now switching gears to productivity. This quarter we launched the latest version of Office, which brings mobility, social, and cloud features to the world's most popular productivity apps. Importantly, the new Office represents a fundamental shift in our model. Now both businesses and consumers can access Office through subscription. With this shift we expect to grow our customer base, increase customer satisfaction via continuous updates, and reduce piracy.

As our enterprise customers modernize their productivity infrastructures, we are confident they will continue to deploy Office 365. We also expect our transactional customers to increasingly transition to the cloud with Office 365.

It's been a while now that we've been talking about our investments in the cloud and I'm pleased to share that we are starting to realize the benefits of those investments in a meaningful way. Office 365 lights up with this latest release as evidenced by our growing customer adoption. This quarter was our strongest ever with net seat additions up five times over the prior year. One in four of our enterprise customers now has Office 365 and the business is on a $1 billion annual revenue run rate.

Our Server and Tools business continues its momentum with yet another solid quarter of revenue growth. Within the data platform, we continue to take share with our strength in mission-critical and business intelligence workloads. Enterprises recognize the power of SQL Server to unlock business insight, and as a result we continue to significantly outpace the market, and are seeing new deployments and very healthy renewals.

In enterprise cloud just in the last week we launched our Windows Azure Active Directory and infrastructure as a service offering on Windows Azure. This innovation across platform and infrastructure services uniquely positions Microsoft as the only cloud provider who can offer customers a comprehensive hybrid cloud solution that integrates existing IT infrastructure with all the benefits of the public cloud.

Xbox continues to be at the center of our living room strategy having evolved from gaming to an entertainment platform. Whether they are playing games, being social, or watching movies, consumers continue to be drawn to Xbox LIVE. Xbox LIVE now has over 46 million members, up 18% from the prior year. Clearly there's a lot of momentum, and with E3 only a couple of months away we look forward to sharing more shortly.

In summary, our diversified portfolio drove solid revenue and earnings per share growth. We are hard at work here at Microsoft and with our partners to drive Windows 8 adoption forward. At the same time we have strong momentum in our enterprise businesses, including our cloud services. Combined with our unique consumer assets like Xbox LIVE and Skype, we are well positioned to deliver on our devices and services strategy.

And with that, I'll hand it over to Chris to discuss our quarterly results in more detail. I'll then come back to discuss our expectations for the fourth quarter and beyond.

CHRIS SUH: Thank you, Peter.

First I'm going to review our overall results and then I'll move on to the details by business segment. Our diversified portfolio helped us deliver solid financial growth this quarter. Revenue was up 8% to $18.8 billion and operating income increased 5% to $6.7 billion. Earnings per share grew 8% to $0.65.

Foreign exchange had a $180 million or 1 percentage point negative impact to revenue this quarter, and a $99 million or 2 percentage point negative impact to net income. From a geographic perspective, we saw similar growth rates across both developed and emerging markets.

Multiyear licensing revenue continued to be strong, growing 16%. Additionally, unearned revenue grew 13% to $17.1 billion. And our contracted-not-billed balance was over $21 billion.

In the Windows division, revenue was flat this quarter. Within that, OEM revenue performance was in line with the underlying x86 PC market, which continues to be challenged as the PC market evolves beyond the traditional PC to touch and mobile devices. This quarter, inventory levels were drawn down as the channel awaits new Windows 8 devices. Non-OEM revenue grew 40% this quarter, driven by sales of Surface and continued double-digit growth involving licensing.

Businesses continued to value the Windows platform. Volume licensing of Windows is on track to deliver almost $4 billion in revenue this year, and nearly three-quarters of enterprise agreements that we signed this year include Windows. Additionally, this quarter we saw continued progress in the transition of Windows XP to Windows 7, and now two-thirds of enterprise desktops are running Windows 7.

Next I'll move on to our Server and Tools business where we continue to have good momentum. Revenue grew 11%, highlighted by multiyear licensing revenue, which grew 20%. The strength in multiyear licensing reflects the commitment and confidence that our customers have in our products and roadmap.

In the data center, the premium version of Windows Server, which targets Tier 1 application workloads, saw significant revenue growth again this quarter. Companies such as Domino's Pizza and Xerox continue to look to Hyper-V, System Center to deliver their critical business applications. Revenue for System Center grew 22%; and Hyper-V, our virtualization product, has gained 4 points of market share over the past year.

Our momentum in public cloud continues with more innovation, greater customer adoption, and a comprehensive suite of offerings. Enterprise customers like NBC Sports and 3M continue to choose Windows Azure for their cloud platform needs. Recently we launched Windows Azure Active Directory, which is an identity and access management solution designed to support cloud-based line of business applications. Today over 2.9 million businesses, government bodies, and schools are already enjoying the benefits of Windows Azure Active Directory, using it to manage access to Office 365, Dynamics CRM online, Windows Intune, and Windows Azure.

In our data platform business, SQL Server revenue grew 16%, and again outpaced the broader market. Usage of SQL Server for Tier 1 applications continues to grow based on functionality, reliability, and value. In addition to our efforts in big data, we are developing in-memory BI technologies built right into SQL Server that achieve breakthrough improvements in transaction process.

Now I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division, where revenue grew 5%. Within that, business revenue grew 10%, driven by 16% growth in multiyear licensing. In January we launched the new Office for consumers. The new Office introduces touch, social, and mobile scenarios, as well as tight integration with SkyDrive, enabling access to documents from any device. The new Office is also available as a subscription, which benefits customers as they are always using the most modern version of Office.

As Peter stated, we expect this shift to grow our customer base and we saw strong early adoption of the subscription service. I would like to remind you that with subscription, the revenue is earned ratably over the length of the subscription rather than at initial purchase. All up, consumer revenue was roughly in line with the consumer PC market, influenced by this shift to subscription and strong attach gains.

In terms of our productivity server offerings we continued to see strength with Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync each growing double digits. Specifically, Lync revenue grew over 30% again this quarter with excitement around the platform continuing to grow. 90 of the Fortune 100 companies are now using Lync and there are more than 5 million seats of enterprise voice deployed.

At our Lync 2013 conference in February we announced that Lync and Skype connectivity for presence, instant messaging, and voice will be available to all Lync users by the end of June. Connecting these audiences is a key milestone as we deliver on the promise of truly unified communications.

Next I'll move on to the Online Services Division, where revenue grew 18%. Online advertising revenue was up 22%, driven by another quarter of significant search rate improvement. Operating performance improved 45% this quarter, driven by revenue growth and continued expense management.

In the Entertainment and Devices Division revenue grew 33%. Xbox sold 1.3 million consoles and maintained its share position in a soft console market. Xbox LIVE continued its strong momentum, and we continuously look for ways to further extend the value of Xbox LIVE for both our members and content partners. As evidence of the expanding benefits, we saw transactional revenue grow roughly twice as fast as member growth this quarter.

Momentum with Windows Phone continues to build. The device is now available at a broad range of price points, are receiving great reviews, and carrier support continues to grow. We now have over 10% share in several countries but realize there's still a lot of work ahead to break through in some key markets. With growing awareness of Windows Phones and sustained innovation from our hardware partners, we feel well positioned to continue our momentum.

Now I'll cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 21%, principally driven by Surface, growth in cloud infrastructure, and royalties on Xbox LIVE content and video games. Operating expenses grew 4%, primarily related to product launch marketing.

This quarter our effective tax rate was approximately 19%. And finally we returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.

Now I'll turn the call back to Peter for our outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Chris.

For the remainder of the call I will discuss our expectations for the fourth quarter and share some thoughts on fiscal year 2014. Let me start with the fourth quarter. In the Windows division, similar to this quarter, revenue will continue to reflect sales of Surface and strong volume licensing, while OEM revenue will be impacted by the declining traditional PC market as we work to increase our share in tablets.

Within Server and Tools, product revenue including transactional and multiyear licensing is about 80% of the division's total revenue. Enterprise services is the remaining 20%. We expect both product and enterprise services revenue to grow low-double digits.

In the Microsoft Business Division, multiyear licensing revenue, which is approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow low-double digits. Excluding the recognition of revenue from the Office Upgrade Offer, transactional revenue, which is the remaining 40% of the division's total, should be in line with the x86 PC market. As a reminder, when updating your Q4 model, we expect to recognize approximately $780 million of revenue related to the Office Upgrade Offer.

In the Online Services Division we expect revenue to grow low-double digits, reflecting growth in search revenue partially offset by lower display revenue.

Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division we expect revenue to grow midteens. For the fourth quarter we expect COGS to grow midteens including Surface.

Other income and expense includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. In the current low interest rate environment we expect these items to generally offset.

We are reducing our full fiscal-year guidance for operating expenses to $30.2 billion to $30.5 billion. This range excludes the impact of the European Commission fine of $733 million. For the full fiscal year we expect our effective tax rate, excluding the expense related to the European Commission fine, to be 17% to 20%, and we continue to expect capital expenditures to be about $3.5 billion. Excluding the impact of the Office Upgrade Offer, unearned revenue should roughly follow historical seasonal patterns.

Now turning to fiscal 2014. We expect fiscal 2014 operating expenses to be $31.6 billion to $32.2 billion, which represents growth of 4% to 6% from the midpoint of our updated fiscal [23] guidance. We will continue to prioritize our spending while investing in the significant opportunity that is ahead of us.

As we look towards the future, we have a solid foundation of products and services and markets, and our leadership team is collectively focused on advancing every one of our businesses. You could expect to hear more about the specific actions we are taking over the next few months.

And with that, I'll turn the call over to Chris and we'll take some questions.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible, so please just keep to one question. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thanks, guys, for the cloud data. We've been looking for a lot of this so it's very helpful. Let me ask I guess two related parts to that.

Can you give us a sense on the growth metrics in terms of Office 365, which is what you're starting to give here, in terms revenue, users, customers, something that we can think about there?

And the second half of it, can you give us a sense in terms of the percentage of Office 365 customers that are net new to Exchange? I know you've given just little bit of data on SMB and new SMB customers but any sense there would be appreciated. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Mark. On Office 365, the metric that we gave was net seat additions were up five times over the prior year, so that gives you some growth metric in addition to the revenue number.

To your point on Exchange or more broadly I would say about other workloads, we're seeing exactly that dynamic. So not only are we addressing and reaching new customer segments like SMB, but many of them have never had a productivity server workload before. Not just Exchange but others as well. And even those that have had Exchange are now using other workloads, and so we're seeing most of our customers having more than one workload.

So across every division in terms of new revenue streams from the service, new customer segments, and new workloads, there's a lot of new, and that's what's driving the growth and the opportunity that we've been looking for.

MARK MOERDLER: Perfect. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. I'll be looking forward to hearing what you're doing the rest of your life and good luck.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Mark.

OPERATOR: Phillip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILLIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: You provided a little bit of color on Surface. Obviously we're seeing an expanding portfolio there. I just want to get a sense of how this is evolving especially on the distribution side, and how the product is doing versus your expectations.

And then when you start to think about going forward, how would you also expect the product portfolio to evolve as well as distribution?

PETER KLEIN: Great questions. As I said, we are expanding both the products and distribution. And that is broadly all devices inclusive of Surface. We are expanding distribution of Surface, we're now in 22 countries, 70 retailers. And we'll continue to look to expand that, not only just expanding but improving the experience.

And that's true not just for Surface, but for broadly Windows 8 devices. And so we'll be investing against that for both Surface and a broader array of Windows 8 devices at multiple price points, including lower price points going forward.

PHILLIP WINSLOW: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Peter or Chris, I'm wondering if you can weigh in, there's been a bit of a debate this quarter around what the underlying PC market did, and I think we've seen numbers ranging out there from mid-single digit decline to a midteens decline. I'm just wondering first if you could weigh in on that. You've in the past given some sort of range.

And then related to that if you look at the second half, I'm wondering how we should set our expectations around this mid- to high-end Haswell release from Intel in terms of impact it may have on the PC market versus the later in the year more holiday time lower end Atom release, and how those two chip releases may have an impact on what you're expecting from the device market and overall impact on Windows.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Walter. On the PC market, I would look to some of the third parties, IDC and Gartner, they're sort of in the 12%, 13%, 14% down range this quarter.

And in terms of the chipsets, we've always felt that with Windows 8, there was a process of the ecosystem really innovating across the board, and you're really starting to see that on the chips. And we're very encouraged by both Haswell and some of the Atom processors to really improve the overall user experience that Windows 8 delivers, and over the coming selling season, I think that's very encouraging and we are optimistic about that.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I was wondering, Peter, if you can help -- we've heard Intel talk about Haswell and they mentioned it on the call I think it was last night, you obviously mentioned it. I guess I'm just wondering, what can you guys do to specifically help grow your tablet share, given you are reliant ex the Surface products on OEM partners to really hit a broad segment of the market?

And I'm thinking in general given the OEM partners don't have much wiggle room on the margin side, what can you do to help stimulate your market share in particular in the mobility and then the tablet side? Thank you. And good luck in the future. We're going to miss you.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks. I've enjoyed working with you. I think broadly in improving our position in tablets and just generally in devices there's five or six dimensions ranging from what we're doing with OEMs on the devices, and the range of devices and how we're -- they can have a range of price points; what we're doing, what the chips can do, because I think that's a part of it; both first-party and third-party applications, and we've seen improvements across-the-board there. The user interface and how we're innovating across the user experience. And then distributions. So if you start from the bottom up all the way to when you buy the product, we are working across all those dimensions.

And on the device side we are working closely with the OEMs to help them take Windows 8, show it off in all its glory across different form factors. I talked about new smaller form factors and how Windows 8 can innovate to improve that experience.

So I think the biggest thing we're doing is helping them develop new and improved user experiences across-the-board, across the size, across price points to deliver a really compelling Windows 8 experience and it's not just the devices. Like I said it's the chips, it's the apps, it's the buying experience, it's the user interface. So we're really focused on all five or six of those dimensions going forward.

OPERATOR: Keith Weiss, Morgan Stanley.

KEITH WEISS, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Excellent. Thank you, guys, for taking my question; and nice quarter. I want to ask about the impact -- you mentioned on the call that going to subscription revenues does have a near-term impact on revenues. I was wondering if you can help us out and understand whether we're seeing that impact today and perhaps to what degree with the strong uptake of some of the cloud services, particularly like Office 365?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. No. It's a good point. We are seeing that particularly in our transactional business in MBD. As people move from what may have been a transactional or perpetual license where the revenue was recognized upfront, to a subscription service where it's recognized ratably, so you're basically deferring the rest of the term of the subscription. So in the short term you'll be deferring revenue that if it were bought, not in the subscription, would have been recognized immediately.

And as the subscription business is growing you'll see that impact growing, but over time what you'll get is more what looks like annuity revenue stream that's more predictable and has higher customer satisfaction, and probably higher retention rates going forward. But in the short term that will impact mostly in the transactional side of the MBD business.

KEITH WEISS: That helped. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, just on the gross margin it's been under pressure for the last several years, but this quarter it did bounce back. Can you just give us a sense of how you think gross margins will trend? And do you expect this as a stabilization, we should it expect slow improvement from here, or expect more of the same in terms of where they've been the last couple quarters?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. Gross margins as you know are always going to be a function of mix. So depending on where you are in the quarter, the biggest driver of what your gross margin is going to be is mix, so if you have a big hardware quarter that has low gross margins, that will impact it.

The biggest things that are going to impact the mix are going to be hardware, cloud services, and enterprise services, or people services. It is a fact that we are starting to get scale in our cloud services, and so the growth that we're seeing in Office 365 is really coming at an improved margin as we scale that up.

So within each we make progress, and then overall in the given quarter for the Company, it's going to be a function of mix. So obviously if you're in a holiday quarter where you sell a bunch of hardware, that will have an impact on gross margins.

But I think one of the main takeaways for me is in particularly some of our cloud services we are really starting to get scale, Bing continues to improve their margins, and Office 365 is starting to get to scale. So those things are really encouraging.

BRENT THILL: Thanks. Congrats, Peter.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: You've just launched -- or Azure infrastructure as a service just went generally available this week. And I'd love to get some color on how much that's figuring in the long-term contracts, the growth in long-term contracts, and what your expectations might be for more traditional infrastructure as a service uptake over the next several quarters. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks. Great question. It's clearly a key enabler of our cloud OS story and how we're driving what we're doing with enterprises in their data centers. With infrastructure as a service we now have the most complete end-to-end offering through platform and software, identity, and access.

But having the infrastructure is a key enabler and I think a real accelerator for the Windows Azure strategy, and really more broadly the cloud OS strategy. We now have a complete end-to-end story through the data center, from private to hosted to public, from infrastructure to the platform, so I think it's again a key enabler of that all-up strategy and accelerator.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMC.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Peter, I'd just like to echo others' thoughts here, it truly has been a pleasure and wish you the best going forward. My question is for Chris. Chris, just wanted to clarify something you said about inventories.

I think you were talking about PC inventory, but with the Windows business can you give us your assessment of what Windows inventory is at OEMs? Especially given the disappointing PC shipment data this quarter.

CHRIS SUH: Yes. I did mention the fact that we believe inventories were drawn down, we do think that they are at normal levels at this point though.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Good afternoon. And Peter I'll echo my sentiments as everyone else did as well.

So in recent periods we've seen your MBD growth significantly outpace PC unit growth, although we now have a dynamic where your Office subscription is really resonating with customers. So the question is, just looking at this on a directional basis, is MBD revenue outperformance relative to PC units something that you think is sustainable going forward?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. It will -- the answer is it will depend, there's certainly an offset between attach gains we're making against the market offset against some deferrals as revenue moves to a subscription, so it will kind of depend each quarter. Long term it's a great trend, because we're building up a banked book of business on the subscription side, which will become less and less connected to the PC market.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Peter, all the best. Quick one, if you look at IBM coming out earlier on today having a relatively tough quarter given the economy, can you just comment a little bit of what you're seeing out there? Especially your Server and Tools division obviously is doing relatively well, but other guys are really struggling, so help us understand how you see the economy. Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. I think about the economy and then I think about the value proposition of our products. Clearly there are tough spots in the economy. I think enterprises and CIOs are looking for what they've always been looking for, which is how do they get the best value for their dollar to move their businesses forward?

And I think we have a very good story in terms of the value that enterprises and small and medium businesses get from the capabilities that they can get from us particularly in the data center with SQL. As you compare SQL Server to competing products, the performance that you get relative to the price is a really compelling value proposition, and that's what's been enabling us to take share. Same on virtualization as well.

And so I think for us, it's a combination of having the most complete roadmap for getting to the cloud, as well as the best collection of products that have price performance characteristics that are attractive to CIOs that are allowing us to have growth in our enterprise business, and particularly in Server and Tools.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Stifel.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Peter, as you look at the PC data over the course of the quarter, could you give us any sense of how that trended?

And following up on that, as you think about the business upgrade cycle, which should be over by this time next year, do we risk a real fall off again in the PC business because the upgrade cycle has aided what's been a difficult PC market the last couple of quarters? And best of luck by the way.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Brad. On your first question, there wasn't anything abnormal in terms of the trends during the quarter.

On your second question, I think the upgrade cycle particularly for businesses will be interesting over the next year. I think over the longer term, what's more interesting is the long-term evolution we're seeing in the device market. Which I think is actually going to be more of a driver than any sort of temporal upgrades.

I think people are looking to innovations happening faster, people are getting new experiences in new form factors, and that's what Windows 8 was designed to take advantage of.

So I think about the opportunity more about the new capabilities and the new sets of services, and the experiences people can get on their devices and different kinds of devices, than it is about an upgrade cycle that's driven by something else.

BRAD REBACK: Great. Thanks very much.

CHRIS SUH: So that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you in the coming months at events such as E3, TechEd, and Build, as well as at various investor conferences. For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast. And you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need additional details. Thanks again for joining us today. And take care. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's call. The call has concluded. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing | i8394 : Computer Services | ibcs : Business/Consumer Services | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130425e94i007hi
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,896 words
   PD
24 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2013 second-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Chris Suh, General Manager of Investor Relations. Chris, you may begin.

   TD
CHRIS SUH, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, operator. And thanks everyone for joining us this afternoon. This does feel like a bit of a homecoming. Some of you may remember I was in IR a number of years ago and I'm excited to be back and looking forward to working with all you. With me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Account Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website, microsoft.com/investor, is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until January 24, 2014.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements that are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. Before I hand the call over to Peter, I would like to remind you all that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year.

Also, unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the cumulative effect of the revenue deferrals and recognition related to Windows, Office, and Xbox Video Game and the details of those adjustments can be found in our financial summary slide deck and press release. And with that, I'll turn it over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, everyone, for joining us. I am pleased to welcome Chris as the new head of Investor Relations. Chris has been with Microsoft for over 16 years and has been in diverse finance roles, which gives him a good background for this role. I also want to thank Bill for all he has accomplished over the past four years and congratulate him on his new role of as the CFO of the Skype division.

This quarter we had record revenue of $22 billion and record earnings per share of $0.81. It has been an exciting quarter with the launch of Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8. In the enterprise, we continue to see solid demand for our business products and services, with particularly strong growth in multi-year licensing. Multi-year licensing revenue benefited from healthy renewals of enterprise agreements as customers continued to make long-term commitments to the Microsoft platform.

Our robust portfolio of enterprise products and services enables CIOs to build efficient infrastructure, unlock business insight, improve productivity, and support Bring Your Own Device.

In the Datacenter, recent releases of Windows Server 2012 and System Center 2012 are driving customer wins and strong renewals. Our Cloud OS road map uniquely positions us to support the hybrid infrastructure needs of CIOs by providing one consistent platform that can span their own datacenter, a partner's datacenter, or Windows Azure with ultimate flexibility, portability, and scale.

On the Data Platform, we are growing our revenue share as enterprises continue to move mission-critical workloads to SQL Server and deploy it for their business intelligence solutions. In Productivity, we are excited about the upcoming launch of the new Office and how it redefines user experience with mobility, social, and cloud features. The new Office features a fast, fluid design that takes full advantage of the new Windows interface. With Skype and Yammer integration, it unlocks new experiences for communication and collaboration, and brings social directly into Productivity scenarios.

With Windows 8, businesses will now be able to give their employees thin and light devices, without compromising on security or manageability. Windows 7 momentum in the enterprise continues and today over 60% of enterprise desktops worldwide are in Windows 7.

We have talked about Windows 8 as Windows reimagined from the chip set to the user experience. As we undergo this transformation, it is important for us to bring the entire ecosystem along with us. With the launch in October, we collectively took the first of many steps in changing the way people use technology at work and at play. Since then, the number of Windows 8 certified systems has nearly doubled; the number of apps in the Windows store has quadrupled; and Windows users have downloaded over 100 million apps.

To date, we have sold over 60 million licenses of Windows 8. Our partners, including OEM hardware manufacturers, app developers, and retailers have worked hard to get us to where we are today. It's early days and an ambitious endeavor like this takes time. Together with our partners, we remain focused on fully delivering the promise of Windows 8.

As part of our work to advance the ecosystem, we launched Surface Windows RT last quarter. Surface is one part of the overall Windows 8 story. With tight integration across hardware and software, Surface highlights the unique innovation enabled by Windows 8. We launched it exclusive in our stores and in select geographies and are expanding our retail and geographic footprint.

As we look forward, we strive to deliver seamless experiences across hardware, software, and services. Windows 8, Windows Phone 8, and Xbox 360 provide a similar look and feel to users. This consistency, complemented with our cloud services like Bing, SkyDrive, Xbox LIVE, and SmartGlass, unifies the consumer experience.

In the enterprise, we continue to design and deliver world-class cloud solutions that allow our customers to move to the cloud on their own terms. Compelling experiences we deliver across our devices and services, as well as our large partner and customer base, uniquely positions us for sustained future growth.

In summary, this quarter, the strength of our product portfolio delivered record revenue and earnings per share. As we enter calendar year 2013, there is tremendous opportunity for our partners, developers, and customers to leverage the capabilities and scenarios our significant product releases have enabled. With that, I'm going to hand it back to Chris to provide more details on our results.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Peter. First I'm going to review our overall results and then I'll move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was up 5% to $22 billion. Operating income was $8.3 billion, up 4%, and earnings per share was $0.81, also up 4%. Foreign exchange had a $200 million or 1 percentage point negative impact to revenue this quarter and a $154 million or 2 percentage point negative impact to net income.

From a geographic perspective, we saw growth return in developed markets and saw mid-teens growth in emerging markets. Bookings were strong, growing 11%, as we continue to see customers making long-term commitments to our products. You see the results in the following metrics. Multi-year licensing revenue grew 15%. Unearned revenue grew 13% to $17.4 billion. And our contracted not-billed balance was over $21 billion.

Moving to Windows. This quarter, total revenue grew 11%. Within that, OEM revenue outperformed the underlying x86 PC market, reflecting increased demand in our distribution channel. While inventory levels ended the quarter at slightly higher levels than the prior year, we believe them to be in a healthy range given the recent launch. Non-OEM revenue grew over 40%, driven by Windows 8 upgrades, sales of Surface, and double-digit growth in volume licensing.

Within the x86 PC market, we saw similar trends to prior quarters, with emerging markets outperforming developed markets and business outperforming consumer. The consumer segment was the most impacted by the ecosystem transition, as demand exceeded the limited assortment of touch devices available.

Next I'll walk through our Server and Tools business, which posted another solid quarter with 9% revenue growth. Product revenue grew 9% and, within that, multi-year licensing revenue grew 17%. On the strength of both new and existing customers, bookings grew a solid 15%.

For the modern datacenter, we continue to be on the forefront of innovation with our Cloud OS road map, which provides a flexible platform for CIOs to manage their infrastructure, applications, and data. With the launch of Windows Server 2012 in September, we delivered a cloud-optimized operating system and have continued to gain share in virtualization. To further strengthen our Cloud OS platform, we have introduced a steady stream of innovation in Windows Azure, including virtual machines, media services, website services, and mobile services.

Our management product, System Center, continues its momentum and delivered 18% revenue growth. In our Data Platform business, SQL Server revenue grew 16%, driven by strength in SQL Server Premium. Revenue growth continues to outpace the market, as customers increasingly use SQL Server for their mission-critical applications and business intelligence needs, making it the most pervasive data platform.

On the BI side, we're delivering on our strategy to enable analysis of all types of data, while also accelerating time to insight. We're empowering organizations to realize the power of big data as Hadoop is now is compatible on Windows Server and Windows Azure. With SQL Server 2012, we took the next step forward in advancing in-memory capabilities and see tremendous opportunities ahead.

Now I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division, where revenue grew 3%. Consumer revenue declined 2% with x86 PC market dynamics being partially offset by gains in attach. Businesses are choosing Microsoft as their Productivity platform for the future. This is evidenced by the healthy 18% bookings growth and near historical high renewal rates for Office. Business revenue grew 4% and, within that, multi-year licensing revenue grew 10%.

Our Productivity server offerings continue to perform well and again this quarter Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync collectively grew double digits. Lync revenue grew at an impressive rate of 35% as customers continue to be drawn to both the enhanced productivity that it enables and also the economic benefits of our solution.

Next I'll move on to the Online Services Division, where revenue grew 11%. Online advertising revenue was up 15%, driven by significant search rate improvements, offset in part by a decline in display revenue. With revenue growth and ongoing expense management, we delivered another quarter of operating performance improvement.

In the Entertainment and Devices Division, revenue declined 2%. In the important holiday season, Xbox continued its leadership position in the US console market. Halo 4 launched in November and has already become the best-selling title of the critically acclaimed gaming franchise.

We did defer $380 million this quarter for games where the buyer has rights to receive content in the future. The video game deferral was included in the Q2 guidance and we expect it to be recognized in Q3. We also continued to expand the content available in Xbox LIVE, further solidifying Xbox LIVE as the premier entertainment service in the family room.

Windows Phone saw strong growth both in phone and patent licensing revenue. In November, we launched Windows Phone 8 with our strongest lineup of both carriers and devices. Windows Phones sales were over four times higher than they were last year. And at CES this year, more partners were announced as the Windows Phone ecosystem continues to grow. Skype had 138 billion minutes of calls on its network this quarter, which was up 59%.

Now I'll cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 1% due to the full quarter of Nokia platform payments, Surface, and growth in cloud infrastructure, partially offset by declines in Xbox Console. Operating expenses grew 10% to $8 billion, primarily related to marketing for product launches. This quarter, our tax rate was approximately 18% and, finally, we returned $3.5 billion to shareholders in buyback and dividends. Now I'll turn the call back over to Peter for our outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Chris. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the third quarter and full fiscal year 2013. Looking ahead with Windows, we know that our growth depends on our ability to give customers the exciting hardware they want at the price points they demand and a wider range of apps and services to meet their diverse needs.

We are hard at work with our partners to meet these goals. One of our biggest partners, Intel, not only delivered the Clover Trail chip this year, they have said they will deliver their next-generation chip, Haswell, in 2013, which will enable even more advances in the device market. This is just one example of the innovation we are seeing from our chip partners. We also need to continue to work with our hardware partners as they create thin and lightweight devices on both x86 and RM chipsets that offer compelling touch experiences that bring Windows 8 to life.

You started to see the next wave of Windows devices at CES and collectively we will work to ensure that we have the most compelling devices and the right mix of devices in the marketplace. During the quarter, we launched the first device in our Surface family of products. We recently increased production and expanded distribution to third-party retail partners. Next month, we will make Surface Windows RT available in 14 additional countries.

At the same time, we will also launch Surface Windows 8 Pro, which provides the power and performance of a laptop in a tablet package. With the broadening of the Surface lineup, we will continue to highlight the power of Windows 8 tightly integrated with fantastic hardware. On the app front, we are deepening our engagement with developers. While the number of apps in the Windows Store has quadrupled since launch, we clearly have more work to do. We need more rich, immersive apps that give users access to content that informs, entertains, and inspires.

While there is a lot of work ahead of us, we are incredibly excited by the opportunity to both broaden and enrich the Windows ecosystem. With the launch of Windows 8 and Windows RT, we are positioned for growth across a massive addressable market from tablets to laptops and Ultrabooks to all-in-ones. We will continue to work closely with our partners through this transformation as we collectively reimagine Windows.

As you update your models, remember that the Windows upgrade offer expires at the end of February. At that time, we will recognize $1.1 billion, which is all of the remaining deferred revenue related to the upgrade offer.

Within Server and Tools, product revenue, including transactional and multi-year licensing, is about 80% of the division's total revenue, and enterprise services is the remaining 20%. We expect product revenue to grow low-teens for the third quarter and low double-digits for the full fiscal year. And we expect enterprise services to grow mid-teens for the third quarter and the full fiscal year.

In the Microsoft Business Division, multi-year licensing revenue, which is approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow low double-digits for both the third quarter and full fiscal year. Excluding the Office deferral, transactional revenue, which is the remaining revenue in the division, should outperform the x86 PC market in the third quarter and for the full fiscal year.

As a reminder, when updating your Q3 models, we expect to recognize between $250 million and $300 million of revenue related to pre-sales into the channel and the Office offer. We expect most of the remainder of the deferral to be recognized at the expiration of the program, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013.

In the Online Services Division, we look to build upon improvements in share and search monetization. For the third quarter and full fiscal year, we expect revenue growth to be consistent with the dynamics seen in the second quarter, with search revenue growth partially offset by lower display revenue.

Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division, in the third quarter we expect to recognize $380 million related to the video game deferral. Excluding recognition of deferrals, we expect revenue to grow high teens in the third quarter and low single-digits for the full fiscal year. Switching to overall cost of goods sold for the Company, COGS growth will continue to be impacted by the changing mix of revenue, as we have seen in the past few quarters. As we look forward, excluding Surface, we expect COGS to grow high single-digits for the full fiscal year.

We are reaffirming our full fiscal year guidance for operating expenses of $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion. Other income and expense includes dividend and interest income offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. In the current low interest rate environment, we expect these items to generally offset one another for the remainder of the year. We expect our effective tax rate to be 17% to 20% for the full fiscal year and we expect capital expenditures to be about $3.5 billion for the full fiscal year.

For the third quarter, excluding the impact of deferrals, unearned revenue should roughly follow historical seasonal patterns. In summary, we delivered solid financial results for the second quarter. We have good product momentum in the market and are excited about the opportunity to help our customers take advantage of the advancing trends in technology. With that, I'll turn the call over to Chris and we'll take some questions.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible. So please just stick to one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks, guys, and congrats on a good quarter in a pretty tough macroenvironment. Just want to spend a moment on Surface. Obviously, you talked about ramping up production and distribution of that. Just wondering if some of your goals as you look at Surface, RT and Pro, for this year and then within that context, how should we think about the profitability of the Surfaces? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Phil. As we said, we think of Surface as one part of the overall Windows 8 story. Certainly, this quarter it was a contributing factor to the revenue growth in the Windows business and what it does is it highlights some interesting innovation that can happen to demonstrate the power of Windows 8 when tightly integrated with hardware and software and some new categories of devices and we're -- obviously had limited distribution this quarter in our stores, and as you know, we're excited about expanding that. And so our goal is to continue to build that business, to highlight the incredible power of Windows 8, in an interesting set of devices. And we're going to expand geographically. We're going to expand the product line-up. We're going to expand retail distribution and capacity. And so we look forward to continuing the growth of that business.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hello, thanks. Just wondering, Peter, if you could talk about -- obviously one of the big differences here between your devices in the market and some of the competing devices is price point of touch machines -- Windows devices are much higher. And I'm wondering if you could just talk about what you've learned here in the first three or four months of the Windows launch, how important price is to the customer base in terms of driving units and what do you think the outlook is in terms of getting price points down on the devices in aggregate in order to potentially drive some demand?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Walter. We learned a lot this quarter. We learned a lot about the types of experiences and scenarios and to some extent the price points customers are looking for from their devices. We saw some really great demand for some of the touch devices that we brought to market. In some cases, we didn't have the supply that we needed to satisfy that demand. From a price point we learned what we've always suspected, which is there's segmentation and differentiation. There's -- one of the powers of the Windows ecosystem, obviously, is the variety of devices and form factors and experiences at a variety of price points and we learned that that continues to be important. And, as I said, we're working very closely with both our chip partners, as well as the OEMs, to bring the right mix of devices, which means to your point, the right set of touch devices at the right price points, depending upon the unique needs of the individual. We learned a lot about that and one of the things you'll see is a greater variety of devices at a bigger variety of price points that meet the differentiated needs of our consumers.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thank you, and Chris, welcome back to IR.

CHRIS SUH: Thanks, Rick.

RICK SHERLUND: MBD, I'm just want some clarification because the revenue growth is a little slower than I would have thought but it looks like what we're seeing is a transition in the business, it looks like it is more -- instead of business transactional, it is more multi-year licensing and the bookings growth would suggest that, that business is changing to be more revenue over time versus upfront. I just wanted clarification if I'm thinking about that correctly.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Rick. You're thinking about it absolutely correctly. We've seen big increases in the multi-year annuity business, bookings growth was very strong. And so you are seeing that transition to a long-term commitment to the business. Secondarily this quarter, obviously in a pre-launch quarter, cyclically you tend to see a slowdown in the transactional business as well, but that was secondary to this longer-term trend of transition to multi-year commitment.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hello. Great, thank you. Sorry to ask a model question. My question is about cash flow and two factors around cash flow. Could you just drill in a little bit into the delta between billings growth and billings growth in the quarter and then could you also just touch on the inventory in the quarter? It looked like it was a little above what it normally is? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Well, as always, the difference between bookings growth and billings growth is going to be a function of the mix of long-term agreements, right? Because our multi-year licensing agreements are three-year agreements and so bookings will include all of the revenue from those agreements and then typically those are billed a year at a time so the billings growth will be that one year of billings. And so to the extent we see this growth in the multi-year licensing business, you're going to see a build-up of bookings growth that going to be fast, you're going to see a build-up of the deferred revenue, and that will then [sort it] into billings and then the recognition from the income statement over time. So to the extent that we continue to see the transition to long-term commitments, you'll expect to see that trend continue. Your second question was on inventory. When you say inventory, you mean on the balance sheet?

ADAM HOLT: Yes.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, the inventory is a function of both what is happening in the Xbox business and Surface. They're offsetting impacts this quarter. Some of it is from Surface and then some of it is from the Xbox business.

ADAM HOLT: Terrific. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great. I had a question about, Peter, you mentioned the renewal rates in MBD continue -- they are at a record and continue to move higher. I'm just wondering if you could share with us what's driving the increase in the renewal rates, and how much runway do you have left there? And then actually, I had a follow-up on Adam's question about inventory because it usually goes down in the December quarter. Obviously, you have the Surface now, so it jumped up. But did we see the traditional Xbox workdown of inventory that we normally see? So should we be looking at the fact that the delta between the draw down that you normally see and the fact that it went up or was roughly flat this quarter was the result of Surface? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Okay, I'll start with your first question, which was the MBD annuity?

CHRIS SUH: Renewal.

HEATHER BELLINI: Renewal rates, yes.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, it is a combination of things. Heather, as you know, over time, we have been broadening the notion of how we think about Productivity and so I think it is a combination of a couple of things. One is just the product set -- Lync is a big driver, SharePoint, Exchange. So the connection between the collaboration and communications technology and the enhancements to just the Productivity applications themselves, I think Office 365 and the roadmap to the cloud is really exciting to customers, and part of the reason they're making the long-term commitment to MBD and to the Office and the related products is because they really -- our roadmap to the cloud really resonates with them and how they get there over time and how that works. And also our roadmap from a capability perspective in what is coming in the new Office with social, again advances in the cloud, is really driving a roadmap that is compelling to customers and so that is why they're making the long-term commitments to the platform. So that is great to see. And in inventory, yes, you're thinking about it right. We saw the normal draw-down from the Xbox business and any offsetting increase there was related to Surface.

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hello. Thank you very much and happy new year. It's already quite a bit into the year. But what I was wondering was in the holiday season [post-8] launch for Microsoft, typically we get a big effect of the PC industry. It's happened every cycle and I guess we had some competition from tablets, whatnot. We didn't quite see that whiz-bang effect with a typical Windows launch. I'm curious to get your take on what is it that the media and the industry seems to have gotten it wrong, what are the misperceptions about Windows 8 and how do you think the year is going to play out as far as Windows 8 receptivity in the consumer market and the business market? Thank you very much.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Kash. Windows 8, as I talked about, Windows 8 is a big, bold reimagining of Windows across the whole ecosystem. And this was the start of that process. We all collectively learned a lot about -- from the user interface to the touch devices, and, as I tried to give context on the call, there's a lot of things we're working on with our partners that continues to drive this process forward over the next several quarters, whether it is the chipset, whether it is with developers for the kinds of applications that people want, and certainly for the kinds of touch devices at the right price points that consumers want. All of that is continuously improving, we're continuously learning, and happens over time. But this is a big, ambitious reimagining of Windows and this quarter was the first step in that process.

KASH RANGAN: Got it. So the traction, the ramp should get better over time and we should not be judging the cycle of the December quarter necessarily?

PETER KLEIN: I highlighted the things that drive that. Exactly.

KASH RANGAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, just on the gross margins, they have been under pressure in the last several years and there is a lot of components that go in that you get to see but certainly we don't get to see. Can you give us just the puts and takes of, perhaps, is there any change later in the year where you start to see some of the components of the COGS start to -- the expenses start to come off, or not?

PETER KLEIN: Well, COGS is always going to be a function of the mix of the types of revenue, and so it's really going to depend on what your underlying assumptions are about the different components of the revenue, whether that is hardware-related revenue in Xbox and now in Surface; whether it is multi-year licensing Business and Consumers and, sorry, and enterprises, and what's Online Services. And so at any point in time it's really going to depend on that mix of revenue, which is just going to cycle over time. So we try to give you some sense for the rest of the year how we see that playing out, in total of Microsoft, and again, that is going to be a function of the mix we see between the various components.

CHRIS SUH: And reiterating Peter's guidance, excluding Surface. Peter, just high single-digits COGS for [up to] excluding Surface.

PETER KLEIN: That's right.

BRENT THILL: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMC.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Peter, you said that the Windows OEM revenue outperformed the x86 PC market and your comments imply some Windows inventory build in the channel, which I believe you normally see during a quarter where the Windows launch as OEMs build inventory in preparation for the launch. Would it be accurate to assume that the Windows outperformance was primarily -- relative to the PC market -- was primarily due to the inventory build or was there something else there happening? Was there anything else? You used to give us that bridge, which you haven't for a while now, but I was just wondering if any of those other factors had a big influence?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, the three biggest components of the 11% total revenue growth and the 11% adjusted for the recognition of the deferrals in the Windows business, were the retail upgrades, the sales of Surface, and then multi-year licensing agreements within enterprises. To your point, there was some tailwind from inventory, which was normally, as you highlight, what we see in a launch quarter, and as Chris said, it is within the healthy range that we typically see. But that was some tailwind. But the three big impacts [all] up on the Windows revenue were the retail upgrades, sales of Surface, and the enterprise annuity business, which continues to grow double-digits.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Any detection of any piracy effects or changes?

PETER KLEIN: We're on the same long-term trend on piracy that we have always been. There's -- I wouldn't highlight anything specific this quarter. But as always, we're fighting piracy across all the dimensions and the long-term trend should be good but that will cycle up and down in any given quarter.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: Hello, Peter. The trend in OSD in terms of the smaller losses, is that a run rate that we can think about going into the March quarter? And also when you talked about the improvement in revenue per search is there any more color or quantification you can put around that?

PETER KLEIN: I would -- on the first question, I looked at the guidance we gave on the revenue, we continue to work hard on the cost structure, but certainly as we highlighted, the dynamics in revenue will be relatively consistent to what you've seen this quarter. And in terms of the monetization, it is what we have been very focused on. Part of it is the work we have done with our partnership with Yahoo and part of it is the quality of the searches that we have been doing. It's the realization of all the work we've been doing on both the search engine as well as the ad platform to make sure it is finely tuned to deliver the best economic result and that's what we have been -- we have been talking about this for, gosh, 1.5 years, 2 years. We've been really focused on that with our best talent and you start to see that paying off and that is what is driving monetization.

COLIN GILLIS: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks so much. Peter, you highlighted the market share gains you guys are seeing in SQL Server, and specifically talked about BI and mission-critical applications. I was just wondering if you can give us any more color on the use cases and applications where you guys are particularly seeing the biggest gains and any impact that pricing may be having in that? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, the biggest impact is the capabilities that we've delivered with SQL Server 2012 and in terms of the use cases, there is a couple of things that fall into those buckets of mission-critical and BI. In terms of mission-critical, we're seeing large enterprise customers re-platform on SQL for any other number of things -- underneath their ERP, underneath what other major LOB apps they have that drive their business, and that's really an emerging trend with 2012 and what that does, that is really advanced. And I would add that that has been one of the drivers of our transition to multi-year licensing because now we're seeing customers commit more and more to SQL as part of their multi-year enterprise agreements, as well. On the BI side, the combination of SQL, as well as SharePoint and Excel is really compelling the customers in terms of the business insights they can generate from their line of business application systems and really the combination of the types of what you see front-end on Excel on top of the SQL database has really been a powerful driver for both businesses, frankly, and that is a lot of what is driving the multi-year licensing business up for both MBD and STB.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen & Company.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Okay. Thank you. You had mentioned that over 60% of enterprise desktops now are running on Windows 7. Looking forward, how do you expect the cadence of migration activity to unfold from now until the termination of XP support in early to mid-2014? Does it continue at a similar pace for a while and at what point do we probably see this moderate?

PETER KLEIN: Well, the one thing I would say is not only are over 60% on Windows 7, but about 90% have expressed they have a plan to do that. And so I expect to see a steady drum beat between now and the end of life for XP support in April 2014 for that to continue because the incentive is there and the expressed desire to do that has been expressed by our customers so I would expect to see that continue over the next year, 1.25 years.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Great. Thank you very much.

CHRIS SUH: Great. Operator, I think we'll have time for two more questions, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Hello, thanks for taking my question. Just to follow on, on that one. You had one quarter Windows 8 now, what was the feedback that you had from the enterprise so far? Obviously they're still in the middle of their Windows 7 upgrade, as well, but what is the point that they liked about Windows 8? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. There is a couple of things. They like the ability to get thin, lightweight devices with the kind of security and manageability that they're used to, to manage their businesses. And also there's early interest in new applications being developed with the Windows 8 interface, which is a new way for their users to interact with their business applications. So you'll see those two things are early information in driving business interest in Windows 8.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA ASIA PACIFIC MARKETS: Thank you. Good evening. I wanted to follow up on Rick's question about the transition from the transactional to multi-year deals. How much--?

PETER KLEIN: I think we lost the question.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Mr. Maguire, your line is open.

ED MAGUIRE: Thank you. How much of your -- this is going back to Rick's question -- regarding the transition of transactional to multi-year revenues, what in your business reflects the transition in purchasing of on-premise to hosted or cloud offerings, like from Office to Office 365 or Server to Azure and other similar transitions?

PETER KLEIN: Well, the -- a cloud purchase will mirror a multi-year annuity purchase. It is a very similar way to accomplish the same thing. You're making a long-term commitment. The revenue is going to be recognized in a similar fashion. Today we see a hybrid, where customers are buying their multi-year enterprise agreements, they'll also add on some cloud services with that. But it will manifest itself in our financial results in a very similar way.

CHRIS SUH: Great. Okay. So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous events and conferences which we'll be participating in this quarter. For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast and you will be able to follow our comments at microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you have any additional questions or details. Thanks again for joining us. Take care.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's call. The call has concluded. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130207e91o007pt
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,845 words
   PD
18 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: ;>> Operator Welcome to Microsoft 's fiscal year 2013 first quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. And I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed, General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks Gabrielle, and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon. As usual with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer, Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. On our website www.microsoft.com/investor is our financial summary slide deck which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. Note that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the $1.2 billion revenue deferral related to the Windows Upgrade Offer and Windows 8 presales to OEMs and the $189 million revenue deferral primarily related to the Office Offer.

As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until October 18, 2013.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements that are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. Okay? And with that I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill, and thanks, everyone for joining us. Our first quarter revenue was flat year-over-year at $17.4 billion reflecting solid growth in multi-year licensing but a slowdown in transactional revenue. Our transactional revenue, which includes our OEM business, was impacted by a challenging PC market, normal purchasing slowdowns in advance of upcoming product launches and tough economic conditions, particularly in Europe. This impact was offset by growth in multi-year licensing revenue which benefited from healthy renewals of enterprise agreements as customers continued to make long term commitments to the Microsoft platform.

Our productivity and infrastructure offerings remain a top priority for CIOs. In productivity, our collaboration and communication solutions continued to perform well with double-digit revenue growth this quarter. In the data center, our virtualization capabilities and hybrid cloud scenarios are enabling enterprises to move to the modern data center on their term. And on the data platform we are well positioned to take share as customers increasingly turn to SQL Server 2012 for their mission critical workloads and Business Intelligence needs. As part of our ongoing focus to increase the overall value we bring to our customers we are enhancing our unique hybrid IT capabilities with targeted acquisitions like StorSimple and PhoneFactor. Acquisitions of industry leading solutions like these accelerate our ability to help CIOs better manage their environments.

As I mentioned earlier, the PC market was challenged this quarter. In addition to a tough economic environment and competitive pressures, OEMs drew down their Windows 7 inventory as they began the transition to Windows 8. Our partners are building an incredible breadth of hardware. To date, we have certified over 1,000 unique Windows 8 systems, including beautiful new tablets, convertibles, laptops and all-in-ones and there will be more to come.

As I look at where we are, we have kicked off the largest launch wave in our history, and in a 12 month period we will have refreshed nearly all of our major products. With these launches you are seeing the investments we've made over a number of years converge, and more importantly, you are seeing us execute on our commitment to deliver devices and services that people love and businesses need. Whether we build our own devices as we have chosen to do with Xbox and Surface, or work with our partners to develop stunning new Windows devices, we will continue to offer consumers and businesses wide ranging choices, so that every user can get exactly what they want at the price that is right for them.

With Windows 8 and our cloud services, we will delight users with an integrated experience across their devices. Right out of the box, Windows customers will be connected to unique communications, productivity and entertainment services from both Microsoft and our partners. Services like SkyDrive, which allows users to store and manage their data online, or the recently announced Xbox Music, which brings entertainment to the forefront, users can access their content seamlessly from any device at any time.

With the new Office, which will be made available in the coming months, we will enable productivity scenarios that take full advantage of the hardware coming to market, including new mobile form factors with touch and pen capabilities. And with Skype, Yammer and other services we put social directly into productivity and collaboration. Within the enterprise, CIOs are using technology to drive their business strategy forward, whether it's making employees more productive, unlocking key business insights, or managing a growing number of devices, we are uniquely positioned to address their needs. Our products are scalable and flexible and provides the lowest total cost of ownership.

As we enter this new era at Microsoft, there's incredible opportunity for our partners, developers and customers, and we are well positioned for sustained profit growth in the future. With those thoughts, I'll hand it back to Bill for more details on our results, and then I'll come back to provide some thoughts on our outlook for the second quarter and full fiscal year 2013.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. First, I'm going to review our overall results and then I'll move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was flat at $17.4 billion. Operating income was $6.7 billion, down 7%. Earnings per share was $0.65, a decline of 4%. Cash flow from operations was roughly flat at $8.5 billion. Foreign exchange had a $257 million or 2 percentage point negative impact to revenue this quarter, but the impact to net income was immaterial.

From a geographic perspective, this quarter we saw tough conditions in Europe where revenue declined mid-single digits. In emerging markets, PCs were roughly flat, a significant deceleration from the growth rates we had been seeing previously. Our enterprise business in emerging markets continued its double-digit revenue growth. When looking at our revenue mix, consumer and business transactional revenue declined, which is typical ahead of launches. Multi-year licensing revenue remained strong with 15% growth representing roughly 45% of our total revenue for the quarter. When adjusted for the $1.9 billion cumulative impact of the Windows and Office revenue deferrals, unearned revenue was $17.7 billion, up 13%. Our contracted not billed balance was roughly $20 billion.

Now let's move on to the PC market. We saw the overall PC market decline this quarter in advance of the launch of Windows 8 and in part due to competitive pressures and the challenging macroeconomic climate I noted earlier. Business outperformed Consumer, and emerging markets outpaced developed markets although at a reduced rate.

Moving to the results for the Windows Division, revenue declined 9% and lagged to the PC market due to OEM inventory drawdown prior to the Windows 8 launch and the ASP dynamics of emerging markets relative to developed markets. We have discontinued the bridge to the PC market as Windows 8 will be a platform across a broad set of form factors. As we go forward, we will provide updated information and metrics about our business performance in the new context. The shape of Windows revenue this quarter was nonlinear as revenues slowed down dramatically in the first two months driven by the weak PC market dynamics. Revenue accelerated in September as OEMs started to build up for Windows 8 launch demand. Windows 8 OEM presales revenue was roughly $800 million, approximately 40% higher than Windows 7 presales revenue in the comparable launch quarter.

This quarter volume licensing revenue grew double digits and our Windows 7 enterprise deployments continued to grow, though at a slower rate than last quarter. On Tuesday we announced pricing, market availability and opened preorders for Surface. Next week, on October 26, we will launch Windows 8 and Surface. With the modern interface, ability to support multiple form factors and a rich platform to build apps, Windows 8 opens up significant opportunities for partners, developers and customers.

Now I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division where revenue grew 1%. Business revenue grew 3%, and within that, multi-year licensing revenue grew 8%. Reflecting the PC market dynamics, consumer revenue declined 8%. Last week we released to manufacturing the new Office and announced that it will be generally available in the third quarter of fiscal year 2013. The new Office has a fresh look and touch friendly interface that lights up on Windows 8 devices. Since the customer preview in July, millions of people have downloaded the preview or signed up for the service and we feel great about the feedback and positive response from users. The new Office is also in the cloud and features social enterprise capabilities with SharePoint, Yammer and Skype. It is our most comprehensive Office release ever.

Our productivity server offerings continue to perform well. Exchange, SharePoint and Lync collectively grew double digits again this quarter. Lync revenue grew at an impressive rate of over 40% as enterprises chose our unified communications platform for their communication and collaboration needs. Dynamics revenue grew mid-single digits, and within that, Dynamics CRM revenue grew over 30%. This quarter we announced key milestones to our ERP portfolio with updates to Dynamics GP and NAV. Both these releases delivered great value to customers and partners through faster and more efficient implementations and compelling application functionality.

Now let's move to Server and Tools which posted another solid quarter with over 20% bookings growth and 8% revenue growth. Enterprise Services grew 13% and multi-year licensing revenue grew 19% driven by new customers who are investing in our product wave. Transactional revenue declined this quarter, driven in part by a slower server hardware market and customers switching to multi-year licensing.

In the data center we are seeing strong adoption of our platform across cloud, on-premise and hybrid scenarios. System Center revenue grew more than 20% and we launched Windows Server 2012 in September with increased management and virtualization capabilities. Customers like Acer, Equifax and Volkswagen Financial Services are already using its robust set of technologies and features, including network virtualization, live migration and continuous availability. We continue to gain virtualization share as customers like Pella and the City of Barcelona switch from VMWare to Hyper-V at System Center have to build private clouds with increased efficiencies and higher savings. In the public cloud we continued the pace of innovation and announce the release preview of Windows Azure Mobile Services which connects Windows 8 apps to the cloud back end hosted in Windows Azure.

As Peter mentioned, over the past few weeks we announced the acquisitions of StorSimple and PhoneFactor which will enhance our position in data storage and device management. In our Data Platform business SQL Server revenue continued to grow double digits. SQL Server premium revenue grew more than 20% as customers continued to deploy it for their mission critical workloads and Business Intelligence needs. By combining the power of SQL Server, SharePoint and Office, CIOs can create scalable self-service BI platforms. Users can leverage these platforms to analyze and interact with data in bold new ways, make realtime decisions and gain insights from big data. We are seeing how SQL Server 2012 has raised the bar and positioned us to grow faster than the competition.

Next I will move on to the Online Services Division where revenue grew 9%. Online advertising revenue was up 15%, driven primarily by rate improvement in search, offset in part by a decline in display revenue. Operating performance improved by $150 million or 29%. Increasingly users are finding better search results at Bing. In blind tests nearly two in three users chose Bing's web search results over Google's results, and over 10 million users have visited the Bing It On Challenge where they can compare Bing and Google head on.

In the Entertainment and Devices Division revenue declined 1%. While the console market was tough, Xbox maintained its strong share and had 49% of the US market for the quarter. This holiday season we have a great lineup of games headlined by Forza Horizon and Halo 4 and complemented by a rich catalog of Kinect games. We continued to see strength in Xbox LIVE where membership grew over 15%. This week we announced Xbox Music which leverages the cloud to integrate the music experience across the tablet, PC, phone and TV and has a worldwide catalog of over 30 million songs. Xbox Music is the most comprehensive service available. It provides users unlimited streaming music on Windows devices, lets them play music based on similar artists and styles, and allows them to purchase songs and albums. There's no other music service out there today that matches the capabilities of Xbox Music.

We are excited about the upcoming launch of Windows Phone 8. We have a strong device lineup and breadth of operators across key markets. We will share more about Windows Phone 8 at our event on October 29.

Moving on to Skype. This quarter 120 billion minutes of calls were made on the Skype network, an increase of 58%. We continue to make progress with the integration of Skype into our portfolio of products and have announced the upcoming federation between Lync and Skype which will allow users to access their contacts through a common interface. Skype is also central to communications in the new Office, and Skype calling is included in the upcoming Office 365 subscription service.

I will now cover the remainder of the income statement and share some expectations going forward. Cost of goods sold increased 10%, primarily due to Nokia platform payments, inclusion of Skype costs, growth in cloud infrastructure and Enterprise Services. As we look forward, excluding Surface, we expect COGS to grow high single digits for the full fiscal year. Operating expenses grew 2% to $6.5 billion. For the full fiscal year we are reaffirming our guidance for operating expenses of $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion.

Other income this quarter was $226 million, driven by the gain from the MSNBC sale. Other income includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. In the current low interest rate environment we expect these items to generally offset for the remainder of the year. This quarter, our tax rate was approximately 19%. For the full fiscal year we expect our effective tax rate to be 19% to 21%.

Adjusting for the impact of the Windows Upgrade and Office offers, we expect unearned revenue will roughly follow historical sequential growth patterns for the second quarter. We expect capital expenditures for the full fiscal year to be roughly $3.5 billion. This quarter we returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in buyback and dividends and raised the dividend 15% to $0.92 per share annually. Now I will turn it back to Peter for our revenue outlook

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call I'll discuss our revenue expectations for the second quarter and full fiscal year 2013.

Starting with Server and Tools, product revenue, including transactional and multi-year licensing, is about 80% of the Division's total revenue and Enterprise Services is the remaining 20%. As we noted last quarter, our customers are moving from transactional purchasing to premium products and multi-year licensing agreements. We expect product revenues to grow high single digits for the second quarter and low double digits for the full fiscal year. And we expect Enterprise Services revenue to grow low double digits for the second quarter and mid-teens for the full fiscal year.

In the Microsoft Business Division multi-year licensing revenue, which is approximately 60% of the Division's total, should grow low double digits for both the second quarter and full fiscal year. Excluding the Office deferral, transactional revenue, which is the remaining revenue in the Division, should grow low single digits in the second quarter and mid-single digits for the full fiscal year. As a reminder, when updating your Q2 models, you should defer between $850 million and $950 million of revenue related to presales into the channel and the Office offer. Amounts deferred for presales will be recognized upon general availability, while amounts deferred through the Office offer will be recognized upon delivery, redemption, or the expiration of the program in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2013.

Moving on to Entertainment and Devices Division, while we have been maintaining our share leadership position, the console market continues to be challenged. As a result, we expect revenue to decline low teens in the second quarter but to grow low single digits for the full fiscal year. In the Online Services Division we look to build upon improvements in share and search monetization. For the second quarter and full fiscal year, we expect revenue growth to be consistent with the dynamics seen in the first quarter.

In the Windows Division, as a reminder, second quarter growth will reflect the recognition of $800 million of revenue from first quarter presales, partially offset by roughly $100 million of additional deferred revenue related to the Windows Upgrade Offer. Remember that the upgrade offer expires at the end of February, at which time we will recognize all remaining deferred revenue.

Looking forward, we eagerly anticipate the launch of Windows 8. We are bringing a new range of capabilities and scenarios to Windows and with support of system-on-chip architecture, we are moving beyond the traditional PC to the widest range of Windows hardware we have ever seen. New hardware will debut next week and will broaden over the coming months. With Windows 8, we are giving developers a modern platform on which they can build rich immersive apps unlike any the Windows ecosystem has seen. The Windows Store offers developers attractive financial terms and broad reach. With its grand opening next week, the Windows Store will have a strong lineup of apps. Just as with the hardware, the lineup of apps will become more robust over time.

In addition to delivering Windows 8 next week, we will also launch Surface, designed to be the ultimate stage for Windows, Surface allows users to seamlessly transition between consumption and creation and is an example of the substantial innovation that is enabled by Windows 8. We are hard at work manufacturing the devices and will ramp production over time. October 26 only marks the beginning of a journey we will take together with our partners and developers. Our collective success will be evident over time as we change the way people experience the power of technology. With that I'll turn the call over to Bill and we'll take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. And with that Peter and I will take some questions. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible. So please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Gabrielle, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Yes, of course.

(Operator Instructions)

Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks, on the Windows and Windows Live Division there was no real guidance for the year. You just said you'd recognize all remaining deferred revenue. Can you just help us understand what the variables are that we should be thinking about, other than what the PC market grows at, and by PC market I think we need to define that as all Windows 8 compatible devices including tablets. So, are there mix shift issues, the price you realize on a tablet versus a traditional notebook? What are kind of the variables we should be thinking about in terms of how to model Windows and Windows Live revenues for the year?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. Thanks, Rick.

That's exactly right. One of the exciting things about Windows 8 is how it really redefines how people think about devices and the experiences they get across those devices and up until now that sort of narrowly has been defined as PCs or tablets and customers have been forced to choose and make tradeoffs frankly of what they get.

With Windows 8 you can kind of get whatever you want at whatever price point you want. So whether you want a convertible with touch and pen and integration with your line of business apps, whether you want a tablet for great information and communications and entertainment, whether you want a touch ultra book, all of those things come into play and all those things are available with Windows 8. And I think over time we're going to see how that plays out and that's the opportunity for us and it's really a factor of thinking about how all those are going to play against each other.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Great, thanks. Thanks, Bill and Peter. Just to Rick's question a little bit more specifically, and I was on another call before this, so maybe you said it, but can you give us a sense of your expectations for Surface in the quarter, or if you can't do that, can you give us a sense for what preorders were thus far, just to give us a sense of how that's ramping out of the gate and what your expectations are for that?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Heather.

Right now we're focused on our launch both of Surface and Windows 8 next week. So that's really what we're excited about and the opportunity to show people all the great devices, all the great capabilities, and so we're not talking about that now. You know, as we mentioned on the call, we're working hard on production. We're ramping production. We're excited about what we've heard so far. The feedback's been great. The reviews have been really good and I think that demonstrates what we've been talking about that the capabilities and experiences that Windows 8 delivers across various form factors.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thanks, guys. I'm going to shift to the Servers and Tools business. The billings were a little bit better than we thought, but the recognized revenue in the forward guide was a little bit lighter than what we had been looking for and I just wanted to drill into some of the expectations for the forward guidance. Are you assuming the transactional environment remains weak? Do you still think you can outpace the transactional piece in terms of your Business, and what should we be thinking about in terms of the convergence of billings and recognized revenue? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Adam. What we are continuing to see is the migration from transaction revenue to multiyear licensing agreements, which is great because it's one of the things that is driving the Business, which is the vision we have for the roadmaps, the resonance that has with our customers, so they're making long term commitments to the platform. So it's one of the reasons we gave you the bookings number and the multi-year licensing revenue number of 20 % and 19%, because that's what you're seeing.

So as that's growing faster than the transactional you'll see the bookings and the backlog grow and the recognized will follow over time. So that's really the thing to watch for in Server and Tools and we continue to be very bullish on that opportunity. Across the board whether that's through Windows Server, System Center, what we're doing in the private cloud and public cloud and certainly with Sequel Server. So that trend that we're seeing in the migration to the multi-year licensing agreements is driving that Business both now and for the long term.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes. And just to build on that this is one of the strongest bookings quarters we've had in the last several years. So again, for a $19 billion business to have over 20% bookings growth we feel, obviously in addition, to all the products that have come so far this year I think we feel pretty excited about the opportunity in that Business. So thanks for asking that question.

Gabrielle, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you. So question, given the slowdown in the PCs, how should we think about the change or what's going on in the Windows adoption processing? Are we seeing continuation at the current rate or is there some proportional slowdown in the rollout of Windows 7?

BILL KOEFOED: We continue to see -- you're talking about enterprise adoption.

MARK MOERDLER: Right.

BILL KOEFOED: We continue to see that grow this quarter although at a slower rate than we have in past quarters, but that opportunity remains very large. We're over 50% deployed and remember the end of life for XP is about a year and a half away. So that remains a great opportunity for us, that we see continuing on.

MARK MOERDLER: But it is slowing a bit?

PETER KLEIN: It did this quarter. It did, yes, this quarter, and it's a summer quarter, so I don't know that I would read too much into just one, one period. Gabrielle, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks. Just to follow on with some launch weapons. So there's sort of two changes here to the business that we'll see going forward, one is the hardware piece in Windows and the other is what looks like a pretty big rampup on the retail side with some store presence. Understanding that the latter is probably in your guidance, can you just remind us on the store side where you're allocating the expenses, and as that presence potentially grows over time how you expect that to impact your financials? And then on Surface should there be anything we think about other than sort of a price times a unit and making a margin assumption? Are there any other nuances around the way you account for Surface in your financials?

PETER KLEIN: First question was about retail stores and where that's showing up.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Yes. Where the expenses are.

PETER KLEIN: Got it. The expenses are in Corp, and they show up a little bit in COGS and a little bit in separating expenses.

BILL KOEFOED: Sorry, what was the second part of your question?

WALTER PRITCHARD: Just on surface is there anything else we should be thinking about in terms of how to model the impact of Surface? We know the price. We can make a unit assumption. We can make a margin assumption. Is there any deferrals? Any OpEx impact? Any warranty holding --

PETER KLEIN: No. You're thinking about it right.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Okay. Great, thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Okay, thank you very much. As you enter the world of new form factors, since you're coming a little bit behind relative to Apple, what is the right way to think about your differentiation relative to the consumer market optionally for tablets and the enterprise market optionally for tablets? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: I think one of the our differentiations is we give everybody what they want for the purpose they want it. When I talk to CIOs for example, in enterprises one of the things they're really excited about is that Windows 8 devices give them a chance for their employees, their users of the technology, to have the devices they want and bring to work, but they get the kind of manageability, security, integration with their line of business apps they want. So I think there's a big differentiation in the enterprise across all the form factors, especially tablets that are increasingly coming into the workplace.

On the consumer side, I think there's a range, not only range of price points and different kinds of form factors, but also unique and differentiated set of services and experiences that come with the device including Office, including SkyDrive, including Xbox Music. So I think across the board you see the symbol of differentiation both in the enterprise and on the consumer.

KASH RANGAN: Thank you, very much.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Peter, if Surface is successful, shouldn't the COGS be well above the high single digit growth for the fiscal year? I'm just curious why you excluded it? Are you just waiting to see how the traction is before you give us more guidance, or what is the explanation for that?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. That's exactly right. We'll see how it goes.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question, please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMC.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. I have a question on the deferred revenue for, specifically for the Windows business. Even if you exclude the adjustments, deferred revenue for this business increased in the quarter, and you normally, or actually, you always see a seasonal decline. Can you talk a little bit about that? What are we seeing there? Is this tied to multiyear deals in this business now, or is this something to do with some of these adjustments, maybe we're not accounting for correctly?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, no, great, thanks, John. It actually is that. It's multi-year licensing deals growing -- continuing to grow double digits, so that's what's driving the deferred there. So that's one sort of example of how enterprises are continuing to see value in adopting Windows.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Great. Thanks, Peter.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, John.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: Great, thank you. Looking at the Server and Tools line again, when the results first printed we were asked quite a bit if that was showing any weakness in the enterprise spend environment. It sounds like a lot of that was just driven by the rotation of multiple year contracts, but can you talk about the marketplace right now, and if the marketplace is weakening, do you find that to be an advantage, given the cost preferences in that line?

PETER KLEIN: It definitely is the migration from transactional licensing. Irrespective of weak market, strong market, we've got a great value proposition. It does play very well in tough macroeconomic times because one of our great value propositions is the savings and efficiencies people get from using integrated technology across their stack at a really good price performance characteristic. So I would say we feel great about our value proposition in any environment, it does play well in a tough macro environment, but what we're seeing now in the financials, which is why we highlight the bookings growth and the multi-year licensing growth, is related more towards the migration from the transactional business.

COLIN GILLIS: Okay, thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question please.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: All right. Thanks, guys.

I just have a question on the margins of Surface, kind of a high level, don't want to know the exact margin percentage, but how did you sort of price Surface relative to Bomb? Obviously you guys have talked about sort of including implied revenue amount for a Windows license. Did you also take into account sort of a weighted average attach rate of Office for a preferred device and then add on a gross margin for the hardware, just kind of how you built up to that and then just kind of at a high level, what was sort of the pricing thoughts behind Surface? Was it to drive adoption of the platform? Was it to actually make this a business? And does that change at all near term versus longer term?

Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks. As with any pricing decision it's really about the value proposition you have for your customers and the degree of capabilities and value you're delivering to them at a variety of price points for what they want. And that's really fundamentally what drives all of our pricing decisions. Do we have a really compelling value to offer our customers for the capabilities that we're delivering and that's what we do across all our business and that's what drives our economic performance.

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, next question please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA ASIA PACIFIC MARKETS: Looking at how you're beginning to combine products and services with Office 365 for home and then the bundling of services with Windows RT, looking forward is this going to change the way that you allocate what might have been transactional revenues in the past to a combination of transactional and services revenues?

BILL KOEFOED: Yes. Generally that is correct. As we move to more delivery add services, that will show up as services revenue as opposed to transactional revenue, that's correct. But I do think it's a long term trend and you saw that in the commentary that we made around our Server and Tools business, but we're having people that are making longer term commitments to Microsoft, and that shows up in our annuity business in Server.

It shows up in things like Office 365 where people are having a subscription service. It shows up in things like Xbox LIVE, which you've seen happening over the last couple years. So, Ed, I think you've got it right that we're seeing a lot more people that are committing to a longer term relationship with Microsoft, which is clearly what we're striving toward. Gabrielle, next question, please

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Stifel Nicolaus.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Great. Thanks a lot. Peter, historically the transactional aspect of MBD has followed the PC market roughly. Is there any reason to think that that's not the case here for the final three quarters?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. In general there's two things that impact the transactional business of MBD. One is the PC market and the other is product cycles. So, one of the things we also see ripe in a period right before a new launch of a new product in the transactional side in businesses is a slowdown and also it does track the PC market. So, those are the two things to keep an eye on.

BRAD REBACK: Thanks

BILL KOEFOED: Gabrielle, we've got time for two more questions.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Historically, if you -- when we had the launch of a Windows product, there was a big uptick, especially on the consumer side. Now this time around it's obviously different form factors that are playing in and consumers need to get used to it. How do you think about the momentum we should see in terms of the first quarter out, the second quarter out, et cetera? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Well, without giving specific guidance we're certainly very excited about the capabilities that come with Windows 8 and the excitement that comes from that and we're excited to talk about that at the launch next week. I think I'm encouraged by what we saw from the Windows 8 sell-ins that we've seen so far, the 40% growth over the comparable period last time. So, we'll just keep an eye on that and watch as we get further into the launch.

RAIMO LENSCHOW: Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: And, Gabrielle, last question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Okay, thank you. This is somewhat of a follow up to Raimo's question. Over the past several months many of those reviewing Windows 8 for PCs, while praising the significant innovation behind the OS, have also continued to focus on the dual interfaces, and the adjustment that users will have to make. Is that something that causes you concern just when it comes to initial adoption levels of Windows 8? Just wondering how you think about that.

PETER KLEIN: You know, not a lot. I hear the feedback, and as a user we sort of have gotten used to it very quickly. At Microsoft when we do innovation historically across our products oftentimes there's new things that come, and I understand initially people look at those things. And what we've seen over time is that those innovations have delivered way more value and way more productivity and way more better usability. And so I'm very confident that that is even more true with the great technologies and capabilities and experiences that we have with Windows 8.

BILL KOEFOED: And I think you have seen that in the reviews of people who have used it over a longer period of time. And again, for those of you who will be hopefully using it early, you'll see that show up in your experience, as well. Okay. So, that's going to wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earning call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous events and conferences in which we'll be participating in this quarter.

For those of you unable to attend in person, these events will generally be webcast and you will be able to follow along at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need additional details. Thanks again for joining us today and have a great day.

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference. Thank you very much for your participation. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121101e8ai007bx
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,706 words
   PD
19 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's fiscal year 2012 fourth-quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill you may begin.

BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks Erin, and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. On our website, Microsoft.com/investor, is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.

Note that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year. Unless specified otherwise, all impacted numbers for the current quarter have been adjusted for the $540 million revenue deferral related to the Windows upgrade offer, and the previously announced $6.2 billion goodwill impairment charge.

As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission and the transcript and any future uses of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 19, 2013. During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements that are subject -- that are predictions, projections, or other statements about future events.

These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. Okay, and with that I will turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks Bill and thanks everyone for joining us. We started the fiscal year with good momentum, and closed with a solid finish. Throughout the year, we delivered top-line growth and remained disciplined on cost management, while continuing to execute on our product road map.

Our enterprise products and services remain a top priority for CIOs as they navigate macroeconomic challenges. They are adopting our solutions for increased productivity, manageability, and security, at an overall lower total cost of ownership.

Windows 7 and Office 2010 both reached new milestones, as enterprises benefit from our business desktop offerings.

Today over 50% of enterprise desktops worldwide are running Windows 7. And software assurance attach rates are at an all time high. And even two years after launch, Office 2010 attach continues to grow, as businesses make long term moments to the Office platform.

Our productivity server offerings continue to perform very well, with double-digit growth. Our newest server offering, Lync, grew over 45% this quarter, and we are excited about the unified communications scenarios that are enabled by new voice, video, and social capabilities. Office remains the number one productivity application, and today is on more than 1 billion PCs worldwide.

On Monday, we released the customer preview of the new Office which puts mobility, social, and cloud at the forefront. Combined with the power of Windows 8, we are enabling a new platform of computing that gives the end user unparalleled choice for consumption and productivity.

Our server and tools products deliver on the vision of a modern data center, by enabling multi-tenancy, scalability, and continuous services, all while using a single pane of glass for management. No other technology company can offer the hybrid cloud solutions that give customers the ability to manage and scale their applications, data, and processes, across both public and private clouds.

As I look back, when I first became CFO of Server and Tools in 2003, it was a $7 billion business. Since then, it has grown to nearly $19 billion in revenue. And the opportunity for future growth has never been better. Xbox continued its evolution as an entertainment platform, and has solidified its place in the living room. With the help of Kinect and Bing, discovering and accessing content has never been easier. And with the recently announced Xbox SmartGlass, we look to make entertainment smarter, more interactive, and more fun.

Moving to the online services division, we continue to grow share, increase revenue for search, and improve operating performance. Despite this progress, our expectations for future growth and profitability are now lower than we previously expected. As we announced earlier this month, we took a write-down on the goodwill that arose mainly from the aQuantive acquisition. We continue to believe that search is a strategic asset for Microsoft, and are prioritizing our resources into the areas we believe drives the most business value.

With Windows 8 and Windows Phone 8 we see a great opportunity to benefit from the trend towards smart mobile devices. We feel that we are uniquely positioned to address the security and manageability challenges that CIOs are dealing with today as a result of this trend. And for users, we offer compelling experiences across devices. With data and services that are connected seamlessly via the cloud.

In summary, we delivered solid financial results while embarking on the largest launch wave in our history. We are pleased with the long-term commitment that enterprise customers are making to our offerings. And it demonstrates a high level of confidence in our product and service road map. Importantly, customer satisfaction is at an all time high.

This past year, we delivered significant product releases such as SQL Server 2012, System Center 2012, and updates from Azure, Bing, and Xbox LIVE. And enthusiasm is building for the coming year that includes important releases from Windows, Windows Phone, Office, and Windows Server. With those thoughts, I will hand it back to Bill to provide more details on our results, and then I will come back to provide some thoughts on our outlook for the first quarter and full fiscal year 2013.

BILL KOEFOED: First I'm going to review our overall results, and then I will move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was $18.6 billion, up 7% or $1.2 billion. Operating income was $6.9 billion, up 12%. Earnings per share was $0.73, up 6%. Cash flow from operations was $7.7 billion, up 29%, and for the full year, it was a record $31.6 billion. Foreign exchange did not materially impact our net income this quarter. From a geographic perspective, developed markets grew mid-single digits and we saw continued double-digit growth in emerging markets.

We delivered solid financial results despite a tough economic environment, which demonstrates the strength and breadth of our businesses. Our compelling product portfolio across Windows, server and tools and the Microsoft business division is driving strong demand from small businesses, to the largest global enterprises. Multi-year licensing revenue grew 14%, and made up over 40% of our total revenue for the quarter. Unearned revenue was a record $19.5 billion, up 14%, and our contracted not billed balance was over $19.5 billion.

Turning to the PC market, we estimate that the worldwide PC market was roughly flat this quarter with approximately 85 million PCs sold. Business PCs were up 1%, and consumer PCs were down 2%. Next, I will move onto the results for the Windows and Windows Live division, where revenue was generally in line with the PC market.

As in past quarters, you will find the OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck. Adoption of Windows 7 remained strong, especially among enterprises which are benefiting from the security and management capabilities that come with the operating system. This quarter, volume licensing revenue grew double digits.

During the quarter, we launched the release preview of Windows 8 to a positive reception, and we recently announced that Windows 8 will reach general availability on October 26. Windows 8 represents a significant opportunity for developers, OEMs, and other partners, to extend a new range of form factors, capabilities, and scenarios to billions of people around the world.

Now, I will move on to the Microsoft business division, where revenue grew 7%. Business revenue grew 9%, and within that multi-year licensing revenue grew 12%, and transactional revenue grew 2%, driven by higher attach worldwide. Consumer revenue declined 4%, reflecting consumer PC dynamics in developed markets, which was partially offset by higher attach rates.

We saw strong growth in our productivity server offerings with Exchange, SharePoint, and Lync, collectively growing double digits this quarter. CIOs continue to invest in our application road map and new productivity scenarios. As Peter mentioned, Lync revenue growth accelerated to over 45%, as enterprises chose our unified communications platform. We believe unified communications is a huge market opportunity, and we are pleased to see these results.

Just a year ago, we introduced Office 365. It is now offered in 88 markets and 32 languages. In just one year, some of the biggest global brands have embraced Office 365 to share information and connect with customers and partners. Global brands such as Lowe's, Qantas, Japan Airlines and Hallmark Cards have adopted Office 365 to unify their communication and collaboration experience with a secure, trusted platform.

Earlier this week, we released the customer preview of the next version of Office. It features an intuitive design that works great on Windows 8 with touch, stylus, mouse, or keyboard. It is available as a cloud-based subscription service, and includes Skype credits and extra SkyDrive storage. With SkyDrive integration, content is always available across all types of devices. It enables modern scenarios such as digital note taking, reading, and markup. It is social and makes it easy to connect with people and information.

With People Card, there is an integrated view of contacts from LinkedIn and Facebook. And speaking of social, this morning we announced that we have closed the Yammer acquisition. Yammer adds best-in-class enterprise social networking to our portfolio of cloud-based productivity services.

Dynamics revenue grew 7%, and within that, Dynamics CRM revenue grew over 25%, and added 360,000 users this quarter. We now have more than 2.7 million users, and 36,000 customers who use Dynamics CRM to get a consistent and familiar experience inside Office.

Now let's move to server and tools, which posted another solid quarter with 13% revenue growth. Transactional revenue declined low single digits while multi-year licensing revenue grew more than 20% fueled by the wave of our new server products.

Enterprise services grew 15%. In the private cloud, Windows server premium revenue grew double digits. With greater scalability, improved performance, and cost efficiencies, Hyper-V continues to win share against VMware. In anticipation of what is coming in Windows Server 2012, we are already seeing customers like Unilever move from VMware to Hyper-V.

System Center revenue grew roughly 20%, and we continued building momentum and demand for our private cloud capabilities. With the release of System Center 2012, and our leadership in Windows Server Active Directory, we have a compelling device management and application delivery platform.

In the public cloud, we've launched a major release of Windows Azure, which enables infrastructure as a service capabilities, adds 48 countries, offers media services, and brings new capabilities to developers. We are excited that Windows Azure media services is being used to deliver Olympics coverage in high definition. This quarter, Windows Azure had significant customer and partner wins, and we added roughly 800 new enterprise customers.

In our data platform business, SQL Server revenue grew 20%, outpacing industry growth. Every week we see customers moving to SQL Server because of its superior business analytics, security, flexibility, and cost effectiveness. SQL Server premium revenue grew more than 30%, as enterprises continue to deploy it for their mission-critical workloads and business intelligence needs.

High performance and VI capabilities offered by SQL Server 2012, along with Hadoop integration, will enable our customers to capture the full potential of big data. As I look back at the year, SQL Server revenue grew more than $0.5 billion and with the technology investments in SQL Server 2012, we are well positioned for future growth.

Next, I will move on to the online services division, where revenue grew 8%, and operating performance improved by $266 million or 36%. Online advertising revenue was up 12%, driven primarily by rate improvement in our search business. Bing's US organic market share ended the quarter at 15.6%, up 120 basis points year-over-year.

In the entertainment and devices division, revenue grew 20%. Despite the soft console market, Xbox continues its leadership position and had 47% share of the US market in June. Additionally, Xbox LIVE membership increased by more than 15%, driven in part by the new content partners we have brought to Xbox. We also announced Xbox SmartGlass which will connect phones, PCs, and tablets with the Xbox 360 console, to enable more interactive and engaging entertainment.

For Windows Phone, there are now approximately 100,000 apps in the marketplace, and Windows Phone unit sales grew more than 50% sequentially. In June we announced that Windows Phone 8 will arrive later this year. Windows Phone 8 is based on the same core technologies that power Windows 8, and it will unleash a new wave of features for consumers, developers, and businesses.

Moving on to Skype, we continue to progress with the integration and you got a taste of that with our Office announcement this week. This quarter, 115 billion minutes of calls were made on the Skype network, an increase of over 50% from the prior year.

I will now cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 12%, primarily due to Nokia platform payments, inclusion of Skype cost, and growth in enterprise services. Operating expenses were flat at $7.5 billion. Operating income increased 12% to $6.9 billion. This quarter, we returned $2.7 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends. So to wrap up, we saw strong demand from our business customers leading to solid financial results.

Along with our revenue growth, we were able to maintain strong cost discipline and drive operating margin expansion. And with that, I will hand it back to Peter who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: For the remainder of the call, I will discuss our expectations for the first quarter and full fiscal year, 2013. As we look forward, with expect many of the trends from 2012 to continue. Companies will prioritize the transition to the modern desktop. CIOs will continue to invest in cloud solutions to deliver productivity and scalability to their business.

Consumers will increasingly leverage cloud services to ensure their content is always available across any of their devices. Rapid innovation will continue in hardware, services and the underlying infrastructure that is needed to support mobile computing. With our current portfolio and road map, we believe we are well positioned to capitalize on these trends.

Now turning to our outlook by business. For Windows, in the first quarter, we expect to defer $1.0 to $1.2 billion related to the Windows upgrade offer and pre-sales of Windows 8 to OEMs prior to general availability. Just a reminder that amounts deferred for the Windows upgrade offer will get recognized upon the earlier of redemption or the expiration of the program on February 28, 2013.

We expect the current dynamics of the PC marketplace to continue in the first quarter. Excluding the impact of the deferrals associated with the Windows upgrade offer and presale, we expect Windows revenue to slightly trail the PC market for the quarter. With new touch-enabled features in Windows 8 and new form factors hitting the market this fall, we expect Windows 8 to drive the PC ecosystem forward.

Excluding the deferral's for fiscal year 2012, for the year, we expect Windows revenue to be roughly in line with the PC market. Note that this does not include the impact of surface PCs which we will update you on in the coming months. In the Microsoft business division, multi-year licensing revenue, which is approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow low double digits for both the first quarter and full year.

Transactional revenue, which is the remaining revenue in the division, should lag the overall PC market until the launch of Office, due to the normal cyclical slowdown in advance of the next version. And then slightly outperform the PC market post lunch.

Within server and tools, our customers are moving from transactional licensing to multi-year licensing agreements. This impacts our mix of revenue, and for next year we expect multi-year licensing to be approximately 60% of the division's revenue, transactional licensing to be 20%, and enterprise services to remain at 20%.

With a shift to multi-year agreements, we expect transactional revenue to slightly lag the overall server hardware market for the first quarter and full year. For both the first quarter and the year, we expect multi-year licensing revenue and enterprise services revenue to both grow low teens.

In the online services division, we look to build upon improvements in share and search monetization. With focused investment in the highest value areas. For our entertainment and devices division, while we have been maintaining our share of leadership position, the console market has been showing year-over-year declines.

For games, Halo 4 will launch in Q2, while Gears of War was a Q1 title last year. With these considerations in mind, we expect revenue to decline high teens in the first quarter, and to be roughly flat for the full year. We expect COGS to grow high single digits in the first quarter due primarily to the Nokia payment, addition of Skype, and growth in enterprise services, partially offset by lower console volume.

We are reaffirming our guidance for operating expenses of $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion for fiscal 2013, and as you create your models you should expect higher expense growth rates around the timing of launches. As a reminder, other income includes dividend and interest income, offset by interest expense and the net cost of hedging. In the current low interest rate environment, we expect these items to generally offset absent one-time events.

For the full fiscal year, we expect our effective tax rate to be 19% to 21%, and capital expenditures to be slightly over $3 billion. Adjusting for the impact of the Windows upgrade offer and presales, we expect unearned revenue will roughly follow historical sequential growth patterns for the first quarter.

In summary, we delivered solid financial results in both the fourth quarter and for the full fiscal year. We enter fiscal 2013 with great momentum, and are excited about our upcoming launches. And with that, I will turn the call over to Bill and we will take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Erin, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Adam Holt with Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Congrats to a good end to the year. In past Windows cycles, commercial and retail licensing and inventory rebuild have enabled you to outpace the PC market. How should we think about those factors around Windows 8 and are you including OEM related tablet sales in your PC market forecast for next year or should we be excluding those like surface? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Adam. The first question I will go back to the guidance we gave for how we expect Windows to really ignite the PC market and how we expect Windows to be relative to the PC market. We said it was going to lag a little bit in the first quarter pre-launch and for the full year would be roughly in line, so that means for the remainder of the year slightly ahead. And also think about emerging markets versus developed markets and what that means for the overall growth of Windows relative to the hardware market. On the second question on the PC market, I would say when we talk about the PC market, we are largely consistent with how the third parties would report on the PC market traditionally.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator next question please.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund with Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: On Office 365 I'm curious how we should be thinking about how that revenue ramps up. You haven't really talked much yet about the availability of Office 365. I know it is included with WIN RT. Should we expect then that is broadly available in the market with the October 26 launch date of Windows 8?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks Rick. I think generally you are characterizing it correctly. We are really excited about the new Office and what that means for Office 365 being broadly available for both consumers and enterprises. We do think this is a real accelerant for the business. To date, it's been a really compelling part of the overall Office story. We talk with every customer about the cloud road map and that's one of the drivers of what we are seeing broadly across MBD, not just in Office, but in SharePoint, Lync and Exchange. I think you're thinking about his right that when we get to the new Office in conjunction with Windows 8, we really accelerate what we're doing for both consumers as well as businesses of all sizes.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler from Sanford C. Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yahoo, in their earnings call on Tuesday, reported that the revenue for search they're getting from Microsoft is below the Microsoft guaranteed threshold. And that the guarantee expires Q1 2013. CFO alluded to a clause in the search agreement that gives Yahoo an out, that there's no parity. First is this correct and second what, if any, impact would this have on the search strategy if they decided to break this agreement?

PETER KLEIN: What I would say Mark is we're laser beam focused on the partnership that we have with Yahoo Group and very encouraged by the improvements -- year-over-year improvements we've seeing over the last several quarters. And to be honest, 100% of our focus right now is on making sure we continue to drive those gains which will benefit both parties of the partnership, and make sure that's successful for both companies because it's obviously very strategic for both of us.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator next question please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini with Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Peter, you mentioned on the call the increase in server and tools multi-year licensing revenue as a percentage of the total segment. I am just wondering if you could walk us through what the biggest drivers are behind that, and should we expect the trajectory you are seeing here to continue? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks Heather. The biggest piece of that we are seeing is SQL and we are getting so much great traction with big enterprises, we are really starting to make progress in tier one applications. And what we are seeing now is many more long-term multi-year agreements for SQL, which used to be more of a transactional business. But now as bigger companies are making the commitment to our data platform, putting their mission critical applications on it, they are signing more of a new kind of licensing that we have just for SQL for multi-year licensing agreements. So by far, the biggest impact is in SQL and yes, with the new version SQL Server 2012 we expect that to continue.

BILL KOEFOED: Just to add on. I mentioned in my script that year-over-year revenue for SQL was up over $0.5 billion, so, awesome momentum in SQL, in the database business and our competitive strategy in the marketplace is -- has really been playing out. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard of Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Great, thanks, wanted to just ask a follow up question on the contracted backlog. I know customers are looking at that with the [hundred] number but it looks like that number, if I look at the sequential trend there it was a little light of what we have seen on similar Q4s where you have seen a more robust quarter-over-quarter growth. I'm just wondering was there something about the shape of the enterprise annuity business or what you saw in the quarter that caused that? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thank you, Walter. No, as you pointed out we tend to look at it all up on our annuity business both contracted as well as the unearned and taken as a whole. We're obviously very pleased with what we're doing, we're pleased with the performance we've had with our customers, we're pleased with the renewal rates, we're pleased with the trend that we just talked about with SQL. I wouldn't highlight anything unusual there.

BILL KOEFOED: I would just add on that our enterprise agreement renewal rate was certainly within, if not at the higher end of our historical range. So, we feel really good about the execution of the sales force this quarter, and I think that, that definitely played out toward the end of the fiscal year. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Another great quarter. Just want to focus back on the E&D division, you talk about relatively flattish revenue, you gave a lot of color on that in terms of the revenue contributions there, but when you think about the operating expenses, just the profitability of that business, what would you expect this coming fiscal year at this point in the cycle?

PETER KLEIN: When I think about E&D, I feel really good about the evolution of the business model for the entertainment business. You have seen us really add the content partners that we have and grow the Xbox LIVE business. So historically, the profitability has been largely sensitive to the console market and that is still a big piece of it. But as we broaden the business, we now are at different revenue streams and obviously the other thing I would say is with Halo 4 coming later this year, having a really hot first party title is always a great thing from a profit perspective. So when I think about the business model going forward, I feel great about some of the content that's coming, I feel great about the subscription business with Xbox LIVE, and some of the access and discoverability we have with Kinect and Bing as well.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill with UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Good afternoon. Peter you have had really strong multi-year operating margin improvement in the server business, and I was curious if you could give us a sense of what you're seeing that is causing that, and how should we think about that going forward in terms of that trajectory?

PETER KLEIN: Great question. As that business has really accelerated and shown great revenue growth, we're obviously getting the benefits of the scale that you get because a lot of the expenses are R&D expenses, and so we have really been able to improve those margins. At the same time that we have been building out so both the public and private cloud assets as well. And as we talked about before, we're really encouraged by the trajectory of that business and we think there is continued head room from that perspective.

BILL KOEFOED: I would just add on, I think as when [Sachi] spoke at one of the conferences this past year, I think he just talked about the fact that our road map there is something that enterprises are really buying into because it is -- he used this term hybrid cloud and he talks about this is a strategy of working with enterprises to focus in their on-premise capability as well as their public cloud capability. And being able to offer the opportunity for people to manage that interchangeably. We really feel like we've got a unique set of capabilities there. As Peter said, we have been making a lot of investment there, and you're really seeing that show up in our revenue growth. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan with Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: If the PC market -- if you were to include Windows OEM tablets as well and if Windows tablets really grow faster than conventional PCs, would you be able to stick to your comment that Windows revenue would grow in line with the PC market? Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Let me take that. I think Peter talked about this a second ago. There's a whole bunch of moving pieces in there. As he talked about, there's emerging markets that are growing faster than developed markets. There is a different price -- we have different prices in emerging markets than we do in developed markets. There's also some upgrade revenue that will be -- that we would be recognizing during this year. I think Kash, to your point, there could be some tablet growth. To be honest, it could grow faster, but at the same time the best estimates that we have is that we are going to grow in line with all the information that we have available.

PETER KLEIN: Thank you Bill.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci with JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: My question has to do with the server and tools business. When I back into what the transactional business did, I guess the question is did it decline this quarter, and when I look at the guidance you are giving, Peter, why would the transactional business slightly lag the hardware market? I think that implies that you are losing share and I don't think that's what's happening out there. Can you help a little bit with this?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, you're right. It is not losing share but it's transitioning into the multi-year licensing business for both Windows server and SQL Server. That's really what we're seeing, and Bill gave you some of the numbers when he was talking about some of the growth in SQL Server revenue and just all out multi-year licensing business for the server and tools business. It's really just a mix to the multi-year business which we love, because it's people making longer term commitments to the platform.

JOHN DIFUCCI: So these are people that had been buying transactional that are moving to multi-year? Because it sounded a little bit like they were large enterprises that might have been shifting and buying more Windows than they would have bought other stuff in the past?

BILL KOEFOED: In general, in total, when people are buying new server and tools products, they're more often going to multi-year licensing agreements than transaction where that was not as much of the case in the past. Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle with Pacific Crest.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks so much guys, you mention that in SQL Server 2012 you are going to have Hadoop support, I was wondering if you could give us any more details on what you're planning there and what we might look for in terms of functionality that is going to be enhanced with the Hadoop support addition?

BILL KOEFOED: You know Brendan, neither Peter nor I are technically savvy enough to offer a great answer on that one. But we're happy to get somebody from the server and tools business who can go deep on the technology and we would love to talk about what we are doing around that and certainly arrange a follow up call with you in the future. Thanks for the question and we will follow up with you. Next question please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow with Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Going back to Adam's question at the beginning if you think about the timing of the Windows 8 launch and the impact it has on the financials, is there anything that we should think differently this time, given that you have new form factors, the tablets are coming in, your OEM partners still need to come up. If you try to model the financial impact do we need to be aware of a slight delay there compared to previous cycles? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: I would refer you to the guidance that I gave when we look forward, and the general answer would be like in previous launches, we are incredibly excited about the capabilities, probably actually more excited about what we're doing with Windows 8 and reimagining with what you can do with Windows. And in particular what we are doing, what our OEM partners are doing to deliver really cool devices and really exciting form factors. The general answer is no, we're probably more excited about this launch than any launch in a long time.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis with BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: I just want to follow up on the transition from transactional to long term agreements and also the success of the renewals. Could you give us a few factors for this? Is this product road map, is it cost savings?

PETER KLEIN: Thank you. It is actually all of those things. Certainly the product road map and the new capabilities that we have across the board, whether that is system center 2012 and SQL Server 2012 which is now, and what is coming in Windows server later this year, as well as the public private cloud story, which really, really resonates. What people are investing in is that road map, because they see where they are going long term, and they are partnering with us to get where they need to get long term through the increased capabilities in our technology. And I would add that total cost of ownership does play a big piece of that, particularly on the SQL side.

COLIN GILLIS: Congratulations.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator next question please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire with CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA ASIA PACIFIC MARKETS: I would like to come back to server and tools you mentioned Lync was growing 45%. What's behind that? Is it competitive wins or new implementations or attached in multi-component deals and also if you could address the impact of some of the licensing changes on the growth in SQL Server? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Let me start with Lync. And I will try to contain myself because I just love Lync. The reason it is growing so fast is because of the capabilities that it provides, as well as cost savings it provides for companies. It is really compelling. And it really resonates well with customers. It is a lot of new implementation. Some of it's competitive, some of it is new applications that people think of, really reimagining how communications happens. We're really excited -- this is one place where Skype acquisition plays in and what we showed a little bit this week with how we are really reimagining communications broadly for all of our customers. And that story really resonates very well. It's very easy to sell, it's very easy to see, the capabilities are very easy to show. So, that's just a great product, a great set of capabilities, a great value proposition for CIOs and end users alike. And as Bill said, we think unified communication is a really big market opportunity for us and we have thought that for a long time and we are really starting to see it with this version of Lync and what we're doing going forward.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator next question please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: The premium mix went down 6 points sequentially and was lower than we have seen in a while. Just wondering if you think a fair amount of this was perhaps driven by the Windows 8 program, where users can pay one price to upgrade regardless of what Win 7 SKU that they buy or was it due to emerging markets and other factors?

PETER KLEIN: Mostly emerging markets. You are right about that.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please. This will be our last question.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback with Stifel Nicolaus

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Peter you talked about CapEx being about $3 billion, it's been running at about $2.3 billion the last couple of years, so about a 30% increase. What's that predominantly related to?

PETER KLEIN: Mostly related to the increase in our cloud businesses across the board. Some, we are getting good adoption and acceleration so it's a little bit of an increase related across the board, Azure, Office 365, capacity.

BILL KOEFOED: Great, that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We hope you all have a great summer, we look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous conferences in which we will be participating this quarter. For those of you unable to attend in person, you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. Thanks again for joining the call today and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for your participation on today's call. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | itech : Technology | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120802e87j00064
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,334 words
   PD
19 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's fiscal year 2012 third-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Sharon; and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. Our financial summary slide deck is on our website, Microsoft.com/investor and is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between and non-GAAP financial measures.

As a reminder we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Note that all growth comparisons we make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year unless we specify otherwise. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until April 19, 2013.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements which are predictions, projections or other statements about future events. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in comments made during this conference call and in the risks factors section of our form 10-K, forms 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. Okay, and with that I will turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, Bill, and thanks, everyone, for joining us. I am pleased with our performance, as we delivered another quarter of solid financial results. Our robust portfolio of enterprise products and services drove revenue growth of 6% to a third-quarter record $17.4 billion. Combined with our ongoing operating expense discipline, even as we prepared for one of our biggest launch years, we delivered operating income growth of 12%.

Let me provide more color on the Business. Our business desktop offerings remain a top priority for CIOs. This quarter, businesses continue to refresh their hardware, and as a result we saw healthy growth in business PCs around the world. As they purchased new PCs, businesses are also deploying Windows 7 and Office 2010 to increase productivity and manageability, while reducing their total cost of ownership.

Today, approximately 40% of enterprise desktops worldwide are on Windows 7. And we see continued momentum as the remaining desktops upgrade from Windows XP over the next two years. As CIOs look to address the needs of a more social and mobile workforce, our productivity services, such as Office 365, have become an important solution. Our communication and collaboration offerings, such as Exchange, SharePoint and Lync, all grew revenue double digits and are well-positioned in this growing market.

On the infrastructure side, the Server and Tools business delivered double-digit revenue growth with SQL Server leading the way. We've now launched System Center 2012 and SQL Server 2012. And the new versions of Windows Server and Visual Studio are on the horizon. Our product road map and vision are driving new customer win and strong enterprise agreement renewals. We are confident that we are uniquely positioned to address the needs of CIOs as they strive to efficiently manage private and public clouds.

Establishing a vibrant Windows Phone ecosystem is a priority for us and we are working with our partners, including Nokia, to enable more features, markets and devices. We are pleased with our Nokia partnership and the pace of innovation across devices, including the Lumia 900, which recently launched on AT&T's 4G LTE network.

In Gaming and Entertainment, while industry consoles sales were softer than our expectations, we continue to maintain our share leadership position. With Xbox Live, we are adding more content and partners as we expand the entertainment experience and build on our leading position in the living room. And in Search, we are focused on addressing RPS and operating performance. We are seeing our hard work pay off with year-over-year improvements in both areas.

In summary, solid revenue growth and our ongoing commitment to fiscal discipline delivered strong financial results. We are enthusiastic about the market reception to our products and services, as we continue to execute well heading into our launch wave. With that, I'm going to hand it back to Bill to provide more details on this quarter's results. Then I will come back and provide some thoughts on our outlook for our fourth quarter and the next fiscal year.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. First, I am going to review our overall results and then I will move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was $17.4 billion, up [6%] (corrected by company after the call) or roughly $1 billion. Operating income was up 12% to $6.4 billion. Cash flow from operations was a record $9.6 billion, and earnings per share was $0.60. Remember, in Q3 last year, we had a $461 million or $0.05 per share benefit related to a partial tax settlement with the IRS, and if you exclude that, EPS grew 7% for the quarter.

Foreign exchange did not materially impact our net income this quarter. From a geographic perspective, developed markets remained healthy and we saw strong double-digit growth in emerging markets. Businesses continue to make long-term investments in the Microsoft platform, and as a result, multi-year licensing as a percentage of our total revenue grew to approximately 40%. This quarter, we saw strong enterprise agreement growth in both new business and renewals. At the end of the quarter, unearned revenue was $15.2 billion, up 17%, and our contracted-not-billed balance was over $19 billion.

Moving on to the PC market, we estimate the worldwide PC market grew 2% to 4% this quarter. Business PCs grew 8% as businesses continue to upgrade their hardware and software to Windows 7. When excluding netbooks, consumer PCs grew 6%. We are pleased with the early demand for Ultrabooks as they reinvigorate personal computing with innovative design, high-performance and enhanced battery life.

Now, I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live division where revenue was up 4%. As in past quarters, you will find the OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck. Overall, Windows revenue slightly outgrew the underlying PC market due to the strength of the business Refresh and Attach games in several geographic regions.

In late February we made the Windows 8 consumer preview available. It is important to note that the development of Windows 8 on both Intel and ARM is proceeding on our schedule.

Now I'll move on to the Microsoft Business division where revenue grew 9%. Consumer revenue increased 2% while Business Transactional revenue grew 5%, again outperforming our historical trends. Multi-year licensing revenue grew 13% as customers continued their commitment to our productivity services. As businesses embrace social enterprise scenarios, they are turning to the combined power of Exchange, SharePoint and Lync to enable their presence, collaboration and communication needs.

This quarter, Exchange and SharePoint both grew double digits, while Lync revenue growth accelerated to over 35%. During the quarter we launched the technical preview of the next version of Office, code named Office 15, with public beta coming later this summer. Our Dynamics business continued this momentum and revenue grew double digits. Dynamics CRM revenue grew over 30% with more than 2.25 million users, and 33,000 customers who leveraged Dynamics CRM every day.

Now, let's move to Server and Tools which posted another solid quarter with 14% revenue growth and over 20% bookings growth. Transactional revenue grew low single digits, roughly in line with the underlying server hardware market growth. Multi-year licensing revenue was up high teens and enterprise services once again grew more than 20%. Our growth and market success this quarter demonstrates that our customers really value our unique ability to deliver a solution which spans the private and public cloud.

In the private cloud, Windows Server Premium revenue grew high teens and Systems Center grew more than 20%. We've launched the beta version of Windows Server 2012 and announced the general availability of Systems Center 2012, which will help customers progress beyond virtualization to build efficient and secure hybrid clouds.

In the public cloud, we recently announced strategic partnerships with leading service providers Accenture and Hitachi to offer enterprise-ready cloud solutions on our Windows Azure platform to accelerate application deployment and migration. We are the only Company which can deliver a common identity, virtualization, management and development platform to our customers across both private and public clouds.

In our data platform business, SQL Server revenue grew high teens while SQL Premium revenue grew more than 30%, as customers increasingly selected the Premium edition to power their business intelligence and mission-critical workload needs. In early April we announced general availability of SQL Server 2012, which now enables businesses to scale on-demand and create flexible, hybrid deployment. Hundreds of global, industry-leading customers, such as Mitsui, Volvo, Revlon and LG Chemical, have already deployed SQL Server 2012 for production use to leverage its enhanced performance, reliability and high availability features.

We also recently announced the second preview of Hadu-based services with customers such as Webtrends, using it to glean simple, actionable insights from complex data sets hosted in the cloud. Hadoop integration along with the powerful, analytic capabilities in SQL Server 2012, position us well to capture the full potential of big data growth. With major releases in each of our server product offerings, we continue to strengthen our enterprise portfolio and empower businesses to be both more agile and efficient.

Moving on to the Online Services division, revenue grew 6%, and operating performance improved by $300 million. This quarter, Online Advertising revenue was up 9%, driven by volume and rate improvements in our Search business. In the Entertainment and Devices division, revenue declined 16%, reflecting the soft, gaming console market. Xbox maintained its share leadership in the US this quarter, and we continue to expand the content available in Xbox Live with the release of three, new, major entertainment applications. Comcast Xfinity TV, HBO GO, and MLB TV, all with Kinect integration.

We are working to bring Windows Phone to more people. Our progress can be seen with the April launch of 4G LTE Phone through AT&T, our launch in China with multiple OEMs, and the enabling of sub-$200 phones with more silicon support. With this work, and with the building enthusiasm around Windows Phones, we have seen the number of apps published in the marketplace increase by 50% over the past three months.

Turning to Skype, we continue to be pleased with both the pace of the integration and the rapid growth of the business. This quarter, Skype users made over 100 billion minutes of calls over the Skype network, an increase of 40% from the prior year.

I will now cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 1%, reflecting changes in the mix of products and services sold. Operating expenses were $7.1 billion, an increase of 4%, mainly due to higher people costs. Operating income increased 12% to $6.4 billion. And this quarter, we returned $2.7 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.

To summarize, we saw a strong enterprise uptake for our Server and Office products and continued business demand for PCs leading to healthy top line growth. Along with our revenue growth, we were able to drive margin expansion with our strong focus on cost management. And with that, I will hand it back to Peter who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I will discuss our expectations for fourth quarter with some high-level themes as we begin to think about fiscal 2013. Let me start with the fourth quarter. Within the PC market, we expect growth in business PCs to outpace consumer PCs, and growth in emerging markets to outpace developed markets.

In the Microsoft Business division, multi-year licensing revenue, which is approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow low double digits. Transactional revenue, which is the remaining revenue in the division, should lag the overall PC market, reflecting a higher mix of PC shipments to emerging markets.

Within Server and Tools, approximately 30% of the division's revenue comes from Transactional Licensing, 50% from Multi-year Licensing, and 20% from Enterprise Services. We expect Transactional revenue to generally track with the Server hardware market, and Multi-year Licensing and Enterprise Services revenue to both grow high teens.

In the Online Services division, we will continue to focus on RPS improvements as well as operating efficiencies. For our Entertainment and Devices division, we expect revenue to grow low double digits. We expect COGS to grow 8% to 12% for the fourth quarter. As has been the case in prior quarters, the mix of revenues will continue to impact this number.

We are revising our operating expense guidance downward, to $28.3 billion to $28.7 billion for fiscal 2012. We expect our effective tax rate to be 19% to 21% for the fourth quarter, and we continue to expect capital expenditures for the full fiscal year to be about $2.5 billion. Unearned revenue will roughly follow historical, sequential growth patterns.

Now I would like to spend a few minutes looking ahead to fiscal 2013, which will include an unprecedented refresh of our major products. With Windows 8 and its availability on both x86 and ARM, we believe the ecosystem will capitalize on the new range of capabilities and scenarios Windows 8 enables. In the enterprise, the addition of Windows Server 2012, combined with the momentum of SQL Server and System Center, position us to take share as businesses increasingly look to cloud-optimize their IT infrastructure.

And in productivity, we believe Office 15 will help people work, collaborate and communicate smarter and faster than before. Driving growth in the Office business. Consumers will see ongoing innovations in Xbox, Skype, Windows Phone and Bing. As you can see, there is a lot to look forward to next year. We expect fiscal 2013 operating expenses to be $30.3 billion to $30.9 billion, which represents growth of 6% to 8% from the midpoint of our updated, fiscal 2012 guidance, as we continue to prioritize our spending and manage our expenses against the backdrop of a big product release year.

In closing, our product portfolio is stronger than it has ever been and customer satisfaction with our products and services is high. And with our latest wave of innovation, paired with ongoing operating expense discipline, we are well-positioned to continue delivering value to shareholders. And with that, I will turn the call over to Bill and we'll take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get to questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Operator, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions) One moment for the first question. Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you, nice quarter, guys. My question is about the enterprise upgrade cycle. The clock is ticking on XP obviously, but you are only at 40% of the enterprises upgraded. Where do you think that number goes? Do you think it's front-end loaded towards calendar '12 versus calendar '13? And how do you think about how that impacts the model, given some recovery with DLAs? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Well, the only thing I can say, Adam, is obviously it's high on the prior list for CIOs to upgrade their business desktops, and we've seen that. We've seen that in deployments, as we talked about, and it remains a high priority. Exactly how that will play out over the next couple of years, it's hard to say. The Memorandum has been great so far. It remains a top priority, so we see that momentum continuing, really, over the next couple of years.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you. I was just wondering, Peter, a few years ago, and you might not have been CFO at the time, you guys had talked about online and what your goals were five years out. And, talking about 20% organic market share and that could get you to breakeven. I mean, given what we are seeing in terms of RPS, although you are doing a very good job on the OpEx side, how would you say you're thinking about that today?

PETER KLEIN: Well, thanks, Heather. The same basic dynamics continue, right? We need to do two things. We need to grow our share, we need to grow our RPS, so really, improve our monetization. At the same time as managing the operating performance, which we've been doing. So, the same characteristics apply. We are making progress on both counts, as Bill indicated, we saw gains in both volume and rate, and we need to continue to do that, sort of monotonically, quarter-after-quarter and year-after-year.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, I would just add on to that, and I've been reminding some investors to go back and watch the FAM presentation that Qi Lu gave back in September. We do view our search asset as a pretty strategic asset for the Company. The capabilities that it offers are leveraged across our -- we think can be leveraged across our whole product set, so I do think our strategy has evolved from whatever conversation you had a couple three years ago, because we see the opportunity to leverage the asset being even more powerful than maybe we did at that point. But, a good reminder if people haven't looked at that video, you can go back and look at it on the site. Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA: Yes, thank you. On EDD, just sort of curious whether there is anticipation. We're not really looking for much at E3 this year. I think new console, people are thinking is maybe next year. There is Halo 4 coming. Just how you thinking about with more and more gaming going to mobile, what do you think the outlook is beyond next quarter for EDD? Do we need a new console cycle to create growth in that segment?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Rick. You know we feel really good about both our market position and our strategy. If you think about what we've done over the last couple of years, we've really staked out a unique value proposition and a unique strategy when it comes to not just the gaming console, but also the UI technology with Kinect. And importantly, Xbox Live and all the entertainment content that comes with that, which we view as a persistent long-term revenue stream, both from a subscriber perspective, as well as a transactional perspective.

And so, we feel great about our leadership position. We've been the number one console for the last 15 months or so. We feel great about our unique value proposition and the growing business we have with both Kinect and Live, and we think that's really persistent. If you look at the engagement that our subscribers have, the amount of time they spend doing entertainment, as opposed to gaming, is increasing all the time. And so, I think the strategy and the value proposition there plays out very well over the next several years.

RICK SHERLUND: Will Skype be a big benefit to that division going forward?

PETER KLEIN: Skype will be a big benefit across the Company as we've talked about how it plays across all of our businesses.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITI: Hi, thanks. Peter, you guys had a much better enterprise performance than I think most of the peers that we've seen report that are enterprise-exposed, IBM, et cetera. And I'm wondering if you could help us out with understanding where you saw strength across your business there? Was it more small business, medium business, enterprise? Was there any trends there that might help us understand why you're outperforming some of your peers?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Walter. Yes, it was all segments. I would highlight the enterprise. And, it's really broad-based. Businesses are investing in data centers. They're investing in their desktops, because they see technology as a way to really both cut costs and improve their strategic positioning.

For a while, COI's had been saying Microsoft is a top priority. And we're really, really starting to see that, both on the infrastructure side and the desktop side. We feel great about our product lineup, particularly in Server and Tools. If you think of what we've done with Systems Center and SQL Server, and the upcoming release of Windows Server 2012, we kind of have a unique value proposition for enterprises, which is all about the hybrid, private and public cloud, which nobody else really has. We've seen growth across both of those things.

Similarly on the Business division side, we've broadened the Office business in several important ways over the last several years. One is in the experiences and workloads that people are getting in communications and collaboration, and that's been a huge growth driver. And secondly, again, is cloud services and how that expands from helping people understand our road map from where they are today to how they get to the public cloud.

I think those things taken together across the board have allowed us to take share and allowed us to grow both of those businesses, and you're really starting to see that take hold. And we're really excited about the product lineup that's coming in the next six to nine months.

BILL KOEFOED: I would just add on to that, I think investors sometimes put companies in a box and say you are either in private cloud or you're in public cloud. And as Peter mentioned, we are in both. I mean we have high growth rates in both.

And we are, as Peter said, really the only company that's got that breadth of offerings in the growth rate on both the private, the public, and then importantly, we've kind of coined this term of hybrid IT, where you can have a road map as you kind of want to use both to manage your IT infrastructure. So, yes, we feel really good about where we are in the share that we are taking in the market place for sure. Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. You commented that you saw strong, multi-year licensing, and I was just curious if you could just talk about how the upcoming cycle is helping influence that? And if I got this right, Bill, I think you mentioned new enterprise agreements, you also saw strength there. So, if you could just talk through the dynamics of what you are seeing on these multi-year deals?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, the way that the product pipeline impacts our Multi-year Licensing business is, enterprises, when they invest in a multi-year licensing agreement, they're making a long-term investment in their platforms, in their infrastructure. And they are making a long-term investment in their vendors. And so, it's important to really understand the road map.

And that's where the pipeline really helps, and that's really been, I think, a big driver so far. And that applies not only to the workloads and the capabilities in the products themselves, but as Bill just mentioned, the private and public cloud road map, because people really are starting to think about long-term how do they make that transition from where they are today in their data centers to a public cloud world.

So, having that road map and having that pipeline really impacts our current period Enterprise business, and I think that's what you saw, not only in Server and Tools, but also in the Business division, as well.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Mark Moerdler, Sanford Bernstein.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Thank you. So, we saw strong numbers on System Center growing well, as well as SQL Server, and yet we're just about to enter a product cycle. Normally, I guess, they would slow down a bit. What do you think is the driver of why this has continued to accelerate into the cycle?

PETER KLEIN: I'll just go back to our continued vision, our continued road map, the capabilities that we're offering. It's a combination of the features and capabilities, particularly in System Center 2012 and SQL Server 2012. SQL Server 2012 is an amazing value proposition when you think about its scalability, when you think about business intelligence and analytics, and when you think about the road map to the public cloud. People are understanding not only current features in the products, but they are looking towards the future road map. And, I think that's what's really driving that.

MARK MOERDLER: Thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks, guys, great quarter. Just have another question on the Server and Tools division. Obviously Intel is coming out with a new chip, Romley here, probably shipping the OEMs now, probably see it actually being delivered in servers late Q2, Q3 in the calendar. How do you think these chip cycles actually are going to impact your business? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Super excited about it, but I think about the business more broadly obviously, customers making long-term investments in their road map. We love what they're doing. We think that's an interesting thing, and to the extent the ecosystem technology evolves, that's always a good thing for how businesses are investing in their infrastructure.

But, I wouldn't want to overstate it. It's a much broader issue in terms of the long-term road map, but certainly, having advances in technology, whether it's in hardware or in the data center, is a great thing all up.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. Peter and Bill, I think the Windows numbers were a little stale out there as far as consensus numbers. But even when you adjust for the more recent PC units shipments data and something in line with what you guys said, I think Gartner and IDC were at least in the neighborhood there.

When you make those adjustments, the Windows business was even stronger than what we would've expected anyway. And I guess, I'm just trying to get a little more color on that or figure that out. I guess a question maybe on the OEM revenue bridge. You got plus 2% from Attach and inventory.

Bill, I think you said that business Refresh and Attach was strong in some regions. But I would think, anyway, that given that PC shipments are much stronger in emerging markets, even if some emerging markets were a little bit better than normal, you'd still wouldn't necessarily get an aggregate attached that would be stronger. So, I guess the question is was there a meaningful move in inventory, OEM inventory, that helped a bit this quarter, because those numbers are stronger than I would have thought.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, John. No, it's actually a couple of things, one, yes on emerging markets, but business PCs is what really drove the Windows business. And so if you think about the Windows revenue growth being really on the high-end of our estimated PC shipment range, it's really a function of, one, business PCs really doing well relative to consumers. And again, that's consistent with the theme we've seen on businesses investing in their technology.

And, in addition to that, we did see some Attach gain. And that's just reductions in piracy, kind of broadly, not in any one place. That was a tailwind this quarter. As you know, sometimes that's not always a tailwind. In general in the long-term, that tends to be on the uptick, but this quarter, that Attach in inventory gain is really partially attached.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thanks, Peter.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, John.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thank you, guys I don't have any questions. Thank you very much.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC FINANCIAL: Great. Thank you. Can you just update us on the changes and the refresh in the marketing group, where the priorities are for the spend and any major upcoming campaigns?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. The marketing organization continues on. We are always making sort of tweaks and changes and making sure we are being as efficient and effective as possible in getting all the resources where we want them. If you think more broadly about our marketing focus as a Company, clearly heading into this launch wave of our major core products, like Windows, like Office, like Windows Server, you can imagine we're going to be focusing most of our marketing talent and most of our attention on those areas.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks so much. Peter, should we assume that we're going to see the same Windows upgrade rights around Windows 8 that we've seen around prior releases? And therefore, should we be expecting to see some big swings in Windows revenue at some point in the middle of next year, or some point during next year, because of the deferrals like we've seen in the past?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Brendan. Obviously we are super excited about the launch of Windows 8. And we're heads down trying to get that released. We haven't said anything -- well, not today, but we'll have more to talk about in terms of programs and promotions as we get closer to the launch date.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, good afternoon. When you look through the pretty extensive product refreshes you have across the portfolio, are you thinking that there may be the possibility that customers may pause in any of your products? And as you look at seasonality, is there a likelihood that we might see a bit more pronounced seasonality leading up into some of the big launches?

PETER KLEIN: I think generally, particularly in the enterprise you don't really see a seasonality impact. You think about how large enterprises plan their information technology spend. They sort of have a long-term road map. They are on it. They execute against it when they do. Obviously our long-term road map, as I said, impacts that. And so, it's more about their long-term planning cycles than it is about any product cycle, particularly in the enterprise, which is where a lot of the growth is coming from and a lot of the products are coming forward.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Raimo Lenschow, Barclays.

RAIMO LENSCHOW, ANALYST, BARCLAYS: Thanks for taking my question and congratulations on the quarter. And I'm having a forward-looking question on the gross margin. Remember in the last few quarters, where you had a slight negative mix factor. As I look into the new product launches into the next year, is there anything -- they're all kind of high gross margin areas. Is there anything that stops that feeding through into the P&L? Or, should it be a straightforward one? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Well, you are correct. Mix is what drives the gross margin percentage and [not a few] we saw that this quarter. And so you are right in the math of that, if there's good growth, better growth in higher-margin products, that will have a positive impact on gross margin.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN: Okay, thank you. This past quarter, both Gartner and IDC saw a better than expected PC uptick in the European corporate market. And your reported Windows revenues certainly support that. I know broadly speaking, the business refresh was healthy. Just was wondering if there's anything you would add that might have contributed to an uptick in Europe PC growth? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: You know, nothing specific to add to that. We did, as we talked about, we saw broad-based growth geographically in business in particular. And so there's nothing unusual or specific in Europe about that.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, last question please.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO: Hi, good afternoon, guys. I had a question on this fiscal '13 OpEx guidance, which is a couple points, looks like, if you use the midpoint ahead of the fiscal '12 growth rate. And I'm just curious, the delta obviously I would assume would come to some of the product launches. But the question broader is, do you think you have enough spend baked into that model to account for the big push you're going to need to make around perhaps on the smartphone side, given that that's an area where you're coming from behind? Given all the other products that you're going to be releasing, and, obviously, consumer push and some of the new enterprise products? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Jason. You know obviously over the last several years, and even longer, we've really been focused on making sure we're prioritizing our spend to the highest value areas. And so you ask a good question, and our approach is exactly the same. Like we've done in the last couple of years, we're really looking at next year and saying how can we most effectively and most efficiently allocate the resources to the areas that drive the best long-term results.

And we think we've got a good balance there as we've had in the past. We've tried to be transparent and consistent and that, really, predictably execute against that. And I think what we've got next year is a good balance between the exciting launches that we had that really drive both short and long-term growth, as well as hopefully a good financial result.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, so that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous conferences in which we will be participating this quarter. For those of you unable to attend in person, you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you have any additional questions or need additional details. Thanks again for joining us today, really appreciate it and take care. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for your participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120503e84j003ef
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,827 words
   PD
19 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's fiscal-year 2012 second-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed, general manager, investor relations. Bill, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, operator, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Rhodes, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, deputy general counsel. On our website is our financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. This information is available at Microsoft.com/investor. As a reminder, we will post today's remarks to our website immediately following the call, until the complete transcript is available. Today's webcast is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at Microsoft's industrial relations website until January 19, 2013.

During this call we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.

Okay, with that, I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, Bill, and thanks to everyone for joining us. I'm pleased with our performance this quarter. Despite a challenging PC market we delivered solid financial results. We saw strong demand for our business products and services and had a record holiday season, driven by the unique entertainment experience we have built with Xbox 360. This quarter the strength of our product portfolio enabled us to grow revenue 5% to $20.9 billion. Combined with our ongoing operating expense discipline, even as we prepare for a big launch year we delivered record earnings per share of $0.78. Similar to prior periods we saw broad-based growth across geographies, with particular strength in emerging markets.

Within our segments, Microsoft Business Division had another good quarter, as businesses and consumers around the world look to Microsoft to meet their productivity needs. Six quarters post launch Office 2010 continues to exceed our expectations with the increased consumer and business PC attach world wide. We saw double-digit revenue growth across our key business application workload, including Exchange, SharePoint, Link, and Dynamics CRM and ERP. As businesses large and small look to the cloud to lower costs and enable new ways to supporting a distributed workforce they are turning to Microsoft. With Office 365 we give customers powerful productivity and collaboration tools at great value. Today more than 100,000 businesses have made the commitment to our online services. Whether on premise or in the cloud Microsoft remains the top choice for productivity.

The Server & Tools business delivered another strong quarter, as we continue to execute on our strategy cloud-optimizing every business. CIOs are increasingly turning to our business infrastructure offerings, including Windows Server, Hyper-V and System Center, as they look to Microsoft for the security, flexibility and manageability they need to build world-class private clouds. This quarter marked the ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth for Windows Server Premium revenue and the 11th quarter of double-digit revenue growth for System Center. On the data platform we remain the worldwide unit share leader with SQL server. Consistent with our strategy, we are growing our revenue share with marquee customer wins on mission-critical workloads and business intelligence capabilities.

This year we will bring to market the next generation of our Server offerings, including Windows Server 8, SQL Server 2012 and System Center 2012, which deepens and broadens our platform for the private cloud. Combined with the power of Windows Azure for the public cloud, our offerings give enterprises the identity virtualization, application development and management tools they need to officially progress into the new era of hybrid IT.

The PC market was challenged this quarter, with particular softness in the consumer segments. However, Windows 7 momentum in the enterprise continues and today over one-third of enterprise desktops worldwide are on Windows 7. And with the future release of Windows 8 we believe the ecosystem will benefit from the new range of capabilities and scenarios that it enables. In search we saw improvements in RPS this quarter as we partnered closely with Yahoo! to address the monetization challenges of the combined ad platform. We are pleased with the progress and are working hard to continue that trajectory.

In the year since Windows Phone launched we have worked diligently along side our partners, including Nokia, to bring a differentiated experience to the mobile platform. Earlier this month at the Consumer Electronics Show we showcased the latest innovations in Windows Phone to very positive reviews. With these new devices we are increasing the choices for consumers around the world to find the Windows Phone that is exactly right for them.

As I mentioned, Xbox 360 had a record holiday season, as we continue to differentiate home entertainment. Whether it's using Bing voice search on Xbox to quickly find the movies and shows you want to watch, or enabling more interactive TV, as we demonstrated at CES with Sesame Street and Elmo, Xbox and Kinect are bringing together our technologies to redefine the living room experience. Beyond gaming and entertainment, with the Kinect for Windows program, which launches February 1st, our technology will further innovation and creativity across industries.

During the quarter we started the integration of Skype's world-class communication products and global-network platform into our portfolio of products and services. While it is still early we are excited by the momentum we have seen this far and by the opportunities to redefine social and real-time communications for consumers and businesses around the world.

As I have consistently mentioned, operating expense management is a priority for Microsoft, reflecting our ongoing discipline and prioritization of investments, operating expenses grew just 4% this quarter. In summary, we delivered strong financial results, despite a challenging PC market. The strength of our product portfolio drove solid top-line growth, we delivered record earnings per share and we are well positioned for future growth.

With that, I'm going to hand it back to Bill to provide more details on our results.

BILL KOEFOED: Thank you, Peter. First I'm going to review our overall results and then I'll move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was a record $20.9 billion, up 5%, or $900 million year-over-year. Operating income was $8 billion, cash flow from operations was $5.9 billion dollars and earnings per share was $0.78. Foreign exchange did not materially impact our net income this quarter. Enterprise demand remained strong, as our customers continue to add both products and seats to their enterprise agreements and our renewal rates remained solid. At the end of the quarter, unearned revenue was $15.3 billion and our contracted not billed balance was approximately $19 billion.

Turning to the PC market, as I mentioned last week, it was a challenging quarter for the industry. Factors such as the flooding in Thailand, macro economic uncertainty, and competing form factors resulted in an overall market that we estimate declined 2% to 4%. In the PC market, it appears that the impact of the hard drive supply chain constraints were not limited to a specific region or OEM type. While absolute volumes were impacted, we did see the following trends continue. PC sales to emerging markets outpaced developed markets. The business PC refresh cycle continued, with business PC growth of 2%. The decline of netbooks negatively impacted consumer PCs, which were down 6%. Netbooks, which year ago represented about 8% of the PC market, now represent only 2%. Excluding netbooks, consumer PCs grew 2%.

Now, I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live Division, where revenue was down 6%. As usual, you'll find the OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck. The primary differences between the PC market and Windows revenue were the continuing growth of emerging markets faster than developed markets and inventory draw down from the prior quarter. We have now sold 525 million Windows 7 licenses since launch, and as Peter mentioned, we are seeing sustained momentum on enterprise deployments. In December, we announced that Windows 8 Beta would be available in late February and we also previewed the Windows Store, which will be the hub where users can discover and download applications. For developers, the Windows Store represents a significant opportunity given its broad reach, flexibility, and favorable economic terms.

Now, I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division, where revenue grew 3%. Recall in Q2 last year that we recognized $224 million of revenue for the Office 2010 Technology Guarantee Program, and if you exclude that, revenue grew 7% for the quarter. Consumer revenue declined 17% year-over-year, and declined 2% when factoring in the impact of the technology guarantee program that I just mentioned. The outperformance relative to the overall PC market was driven by attach gains, which continue despite being 18 months since the launch of Office 2010. Business revenue grew 9% and within business, multi-year licensing revenue grew 12% and transactional revenue grew 3%, driven by strong attach worldwide.

We continued to see strong growth in our productivity solution offerings. Lync, SharePoint and Exchange each grew double digits. We've previously shared with you the opportunity that we see for unified communications, and we are beginning to realize that potential. Lync revenue grew over 30%, as customers such as Volkswagen and LA Fitness chose Microsoft to be their voice and video solution.

This quarter Office 365 became the first major cloud provider to comply with leading EU and US standards for data protection. Meeting these high standards enables businesses to more fully realize the potential of the cloud. We also had our first major service enhancement to Office 365, which extends the Company's next-generation cloud productivity service to reach businesses in 22 additional markets. During the quarter, companies such as JetBlue, Campbell Soup, Patagonia and Wunderman chose Office 365 to enable their employees and customers to work together in the cloud. We are also pleased with our momentum in cloud services for education, where we now have more than 22 million users, a 100% increase over the prior year.

Our Dynamics business continued its momentum, where revenue grew double digits, both in CRM and ERP. Dynamics CRM revenue grew over 30%. Dynamics CRM had important competitive wins this quarter against Salesforce.com and Oracle, such as Safety-Kleen Systems and the American Heart Association. The common theme amongst switchers was that Dynamics CRM has a familiar user interface, which improves productivity while delivering lower operating costs than the competition.

Now let's move on to Server and Tools, where revenue grew 11%, driven by multi-year license revenue that was up mid-teens, and Enterprise Services. We saw broad-based strength across our products. In our data platform business, SQL Server grew low double digits, outpacing industry growth due to the strength of our premium edition. This quarter we saw competitive database wins against Oracle, such as UK-based retailer The Co-Operative Group, which switched to SQL Server because of its advantages in business intelligence, security, flexibility and cost. We also saw strong market anticipation for SQL Server 2012, with over 100,000 downloads in the two months since the release candidate was made available.

In the private cloud, Windows Server Premium revenue grew high teens, and System Center grew over 20%. On Tuesday we announced System Center 2012, which brings many of our Azure cloud capabilities to an integrated private cloud management solution for the first time. We also announced great competitive wins against VMware, with accounts such as T.Rowe Price, Unilever and Lufthansa Systems. System Center 2012 integrates eight separate component products into one unified solution, streamlining installation and reducing the time it takes to deploy from days down to hours. Additionally, we provided a clear path to Windows Azure for customers who are looking for a public or hybrid cloud solution.

In the public cloud, our December release of Azure enhanced ease of use and simplified deployment, as well as delivered new open source capabilities with Hadoop support. We are seeing strong growth in the number of large customers signing up to use Azure. One such example is Sony Picture's Crackle online content service, which has moved to Azure due to the cost savings, agility and performance that it provides.

Now I'll move to the Online Services Division, where revenue grew 10% and operating performance improved for the second consecutive quarter. Online advertising revenue was up 13%, driven primarily by search. The increase in search revenue was driven by both rate and volume improvements. Bing's US organic market share ended the quarter at 15.1%, up 40-basis points this quarter and over 300-basis points year-over-year.

Now let me move to the Entertainment & Devices Division, where revenue grew 15%. According to third-party research, Xbox was the number one console in the US during calendar year 2011, and had 46% of US console sales in December. During the quarter, we sold 8.2 million consoles, which was up over 25%, despite a soft gaming console market. Kinect continues to impress customers, with 18 million Kinects having been sold since launch just over one year ago. Xbox LIVE members grew 33%, with 40 million users now enjoying Xbox LIVE. In December, Xbox released the new Metro-style dashboard and added dozens of new entertainment applications and content partners to the platform. While it is early, engagement has been quite impressive as the number of people using entertainment apps from November to December increased by almost 50%.

We continue to make progress with Windows Phone. During the quarter, Nokia began to bring some of their great new devices to market, which adds to the growing list of compelling phones available from our OEM partners. At CES the talk of the show were the new LTE Windows Phones from Nokia and HTC that will be available on AT&T in the coming months, joining the Lumia 710, which is now available on T-Mobile. In October, Skype officially joined Microsoft. This quarter, over 200 million people used Skype to communicate with family, friends and businesses. For calendar-year 2011, over 300 billion minutes of calls were made over the Skype network, an increase of 50%. The teams are working closely on the integration across Microsoft and we will share more as we get further along the roadmaps.

Now, let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 17%, driven by the following. First, we saw an increase in costs resulting from the strong Xbox console sales and increased Xbox royalties. Second, Enterprise Services continued to grow rapidly. And third, online services and traffic acquisition costs increased. Operating expenses were $7.3 billion, an increase of 4%, driven primarily due to compensation, legal expenses, and Puerto Rican excise taxes. This quarter we returned $2.7 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.

So in summary, we saw strong demand from our business customers and our Xbox platform delivered a record holiday season. We were able to navigate a challenging PC market to deliver solid top-line and earnings per share growth.

With that, I will hand it back to Peter, who's going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the third quarter and full fiscal year. Beginning with the Windows and Windows Live Division, we expect revenue to continue to be impacted by market dynamics similar to the past several quarters. PC growth in emerging markets will outpace developed markets, and business PC growth will outpace consumer PC growth. We also expect the hard disk drive shortage to continue to challenge the PC market through at least the next quarter.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division. For the third quarter and full fiscal year transactional revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total, should lag the overall PC market, reflecting a higher mix of PC shipments to emerging markets. And multi-year licensing revenue, approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow low double digits.

Moving to Server and Tools. Approximately 30% of the division's revenue comes from transactional licensing, 50% from multi-year licensing, and 20% from enterprise services. For the third quarter and full fiscal year we expect transactional revenue to generally track with the hardware market, multi-year licensing revenue should grow low double digits, and enterprise services revenue should grow high teens.

Turning to the Online Services Division. We are focused on improving the financial performance of our search business and are looking for ways to increase RPS and streamline costs. For the third quarter and full fiscal year, we expect revenue to show year-over-year improvements in RPS.

Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division. We continue to be very pleased with our share of the worldwide console market. However, the console market is softer than we previously expected and as a result, we now expect revenue to grow high single digits for the third quarter and mid-teens for the full fiscal year.

Switching to overall cost of goods sold for the Company. COGS growth will continue to be impacted by the changing mix of revenue as we have seen the past few quarters. We expect COGS to grow about 8% to 10% for the third quarter and mid teens for the full fiscal year. As a result of our focus on operating expense management, we are lowering our fiscal-year guidance. We now expect operating expenses to be $28.5 billion to $28.9 billion for the full fiscal year, including the impact of Skype. This represents year over year growth of 5% to 6%. We expect our effective tax rate to be 19% to 21% for the third quarter and full fiscal year, and we still expect capital expenditures to be about $2.5 billion for the full fiscal year.

For the third quarter, unearned revenue should roughly follow historical seasonal patterns. We continue to expect unearned revenue at the end of the fiscal year to grow low double digits compared to the prior fiscal year.

As we look forward, we have the strongest product pipeline we have ever had. We're pleased with the early enthusiasm around our upcoming wave of products that enable CIOs to cloud-optimize their business. And we are excited by the opportunity to unify the consumer experience across our phones, PCs, tablets and TVs with our new Metro-style design.

And with that, I will turn it back to Bill and we'll take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). Our first question comes from Adam Holt. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, guys, thanks for the question. My question is about the material improvement in OSD margins quarter-on-quarter. It looks like you held firm on expenses year-over-year. Does that reflect a new philosophy around that business in terms of driving profitability? And can you update us on where you think you are with the RPS improving? Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes. No, thanks, Adam. As we've been saying, the key to profitability in that business is to grow our top line because it scales really well. The marginal impact that is very high because it's a high cost business. We have been, as we've been growing share and improving our RPS, especially this quarter, holding the line on operating expenses and really streamlining. The most important thing long term, as we said, is to continue to grow that share and grow the revenue per service. So we're pleased with that trajectory and want to keep on that and we are watching the cost very carefully so that that revenue marginally goes to the bottom line and that's what you saw happen this quarter and that's the trajectory we hope to stay on. Operator, next question, please

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Walter Pritchard of Citigroup. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks. Just wondering on the E&D side, it looks like you called out the Nokia payments as part of COGS as a driver. I'm wondering, you been pointing us to mix of revenue type as mainly the driver there of COGS. Could you help us out with how meaningful those statements were and how should we expect those to continue to track as we move into future quarters?

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, it's part of it. There were several things impacting the gross margins in the E&D business. Obviously one is the volume of consoles and the mix of consoles. High end versus low end, the mix of software whether it's first party or third party that has a different margin characteristic. And so that's the biggest piece in E&D. Then the Nokia piece is also another piece that plays into that. But he biggest piece is the mix of business in the E&D the business and the Nokia is another driver of that. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund of Nomura. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thanks. On the hard drive shortage issue, I spoke with Gartner on Monday and they were looking for PCs of down 1, you guys have said down 2% to 4%, and they helped reconcile that, suggesting that there was some issues in terms of the pipeline of products and if inventories were reduced in the pipeline, that might reconcile why the two of you are viewing the industry somewhat differently. I'm just curious if you think that's going to continue into the next quarter? I know we're going to the impact in this next quarter, I'm just curious with you and Gartner might be more in line with each other going forward or if there's more inventory reduction in that pipeline that might be an ongoing impact above and beyond perhaps what we're seeing from the numbers that Gartner and IDC are giving us?

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, that's impossible to say, Rick. I'd say, obviously for this quarter, we obviously are very confident and comfortable with the estimate. As we said during the remarks, we expect the impact to continue on at least through the next quarter and I think the best thing to do is at the end of that we'll probably all have a better view and we kind of assess where we are and what it looks like going forward. I'd say just generally on inventory, as well, obviously as I said in my remarks, there was an inventory draw down to end the quarter. I think there was an overall -- I think (inaudible) Gartner was also talk about the fact that the overall supply chain for PCs is obviously leaner than it was three months ago. So we'll have to see how fast people ramp back up, how fast the PC ecosystem rebounds and that'll obviously impact, as Peter mentioned, inventory at the quarter end of the quarter, as well, so a good question. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Heather Bellini of Goldman Sachs. Go ahead, your line is open.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi, thank you. I was wondering, Peter, if you could talk a little bit about which businesses are the furthest along regarding their COGS transition as you move more and more of your revenues to the cloud, if you could rank order them for the us?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, I'd say Office 365 is really far along. We've had a lot of good momentum and obviously one of things that drive you up to a certain margin scale is getting the economy to scale the volume. And we talked about some of the numbers,100,000 businesses, the great demand we've had for the Office business all up, including Office 365. So I'd say that's probably farthest along followed closely by the Windows Azure, as we add new enterprise customers, new ISPs, new developers to that. And certainly, Office 365 is accelerating up the ramp.

BILL KOEFOED: And the other thing I would add is obviously OSD is, we'll call it, our largest cloud property and as Peter mentioned earlier -- I think in one of the questions -- it obviously has achieved scale and as a result every incremental search ends up becoming 100% margin. So we are -- we're at different stages, I think, within some of the different business products, but certainly around running a cloud infrastructure we feel like we've got quite a good handle on that, primarily from our search business. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from John DiFucci of JP&C. Go ahead, your line is open.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. My question essentially follows to Rick, It has to do with the Windows OEM revenue bridge. Just curious on some of these items, how they fit today. For instance, and I believe, Bill and Peter, you take -- account for that inventory changes in the Windows attach and inventory line and last quarter it added about 5% of the quarter. This quarter it was a 2% hit and, Bill, you noted the inventory drawdown had an effect there. Can you give us a sense of where you think channel inventories are today relative to what you might call normal levels? And then also just quickly on the last line in the bridge, the OEM revenue adjustment, when does this stop -- going to stop being negative? It's been slightly negative for quite some time now and shouldn't it have stopped like three years after the Vista launch because wasn't it related to XP and having internet explorer as part of that -- as a meaningful part of that versus true Vista?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, we'll take that one first. Next year that should go away, so to answer your question, yes, that's what you would expect and that's was what will happen. On the first question on inventory, in any given quarter inventory's going to be -- go up and down depending on what's going on in the channel. As you noted, sometimes it's a tailwind, sometimes it's a headwind like it was this quarter. It's hard to say precisely where it stands and what it's going to be like next quarter. We will certainly look at it when we get there. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Mark Moedler of Sanford Bernstein. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

MARK MOERDLER, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Thank you, question for you. How much of the year-over-year decrease in the consumer revenue on the Offices products is due to licensing, licenses specifically included in OEMs sales of PCs as compared to stand-alone Office sales to the consumer market?

BILL KOEFOED: It's mostly associated with OEM. The driver that we use for that part of the MDD business is specifically tied with the PC unit growth of consumers. And so as I mentioned in my remarks, we actually outperformed that. But that's the best driver that -- it's not complete, but that's the best driver of trying to be able to predict or interpret that result.

MARK MOERDLER: Okay.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Philip Winslow of Credit Suisse. Go ahead, your line is open.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, guys, good quarter. Just got a question on the Windows Division. When you think about the impact of Windows 8 coming out theoretically, obviously, the second half of this year, how do you think that's going to impact build plans amongst the OEM but also inventory levels when we get to the summer? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: It's probably premature to talk about that, I think we get closer to it. So the thing I would say is just from an ecosystem perspective there's an incredible amount of excitement and innovation going on across vendors, like the chip vendors and all the OEMs. You actually see that starting today with [order books] that you're seeing with Windows 7. And so the fact of the matter is there's a ton of innovation happening today for Windows 7. There's a ton of excitement for enterprises for both Windows 7 and looking forward to Windows 8 and what that gives them in terms of the end-user experience and IT manageability. So I don't think about it so much as looking forward. There's a ton of innovation going on today. 2 You see it in Ultrabooks, you see what both the ARM and S86 chip vendors are doing so that's what's continued on a regular pace. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kash Rangan of Merrill Lynch. Go ahead, sir, your line is open

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thank you very much. Over the last few quarters I know we've been through tough comps, a slightly slower revenue growth rate and also the mix issues that have caused the margins -- the gross margins to go down. As you come out of this tough cycle and start to get into the next set of launch, should we think about the gross margins as starting to go the other direction just based on what looks to be better mix between your Windows -- the typical software businesses as you get into a launch year? Part of me says maybe the margins are bottoming here. (Inaudible) fact that you've got some other mix issues that are more longer term as you have the entertainment devices business, the cost there, et cetera, but shouldn't margins start to go back up as you head into launch year? Thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Kash. Certainly margins are a function of mix and to the extent there's a higher mix and higher margin products that will have a positive impact on margins. And it ' not unrealistic to think that in a launch year you can see in higher growth in higher margin products so we don't -- it'll depend on what the mix is but I think it's a very possible scenario. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Brendan Barnicle of Pacific Crest Securities. Go ahead, your line is open.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks so much, guys. I was wondering if you could give us any color on what you saw geographically in terms of growth trends, and in particular in thing particular in Europe or Asia that was weak or strong?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, we saw particular strength in emerging markets, particularly what we call the brick markets -- Brazil, Russia, India and China -- that was really a driver of growth for us and that's exciting for us because we've got strong and growing positions there and that's were disproportionate economic growth is happening worldwide. But as Bill mentioned and as I mentioned, we saw broad-based strength and demand across geographies but with particular strength in emerging markets. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Our next question comes from Ed Maguire of CLSA. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Hi, good afternoon. You called out 100,000 businesses that are engaged in online services. Could you comment on the impact that this transition is having on recognized revenues versus unearned and contracted not billed?

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, it's interesting. Subscription businesses aren't that much different from our existing multi-year licensing business in the sense that it's billed up front and then recognized over time just like our multi-year licensing agreements. So it really doesn't have a significant impact on the flavor or character of our revenue recognition or our unearned revenue. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Brad Reback of Oppenheimer. Go ahead, sir, your line is open.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Great, thanks a lot. Peter, the business PC growth rate was down about 300-basis points sequentially, was that all economic or hard disk drive?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. I think the one thing I'd say is that the overall business environment remains very strong for us and so all of our macro indicators for business spending in IT remain good, unearned revenue, our renewal for enterprise licensing agreements and enterprise deployment to Windows 7. In terms of PCs, as we said, there's still growth and we're still in the refresh cycle. I do suspect that some of that is due to supply chain and maybe a small amount due to macro, but it is small. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Gregg Moskowitz of Cowen. Go ahead, your line is open.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Okay, thanks and good afternoon. Peter, you mentioned Ultrabooks earlier and on the heels of CES we're going to be seeing a lot more them hit the market. Can you talk about what this means for Microsoft and more importantly, when might Ultrabooks be ready for the mass market from a cost perspective?

PETER KLEIN: What it means any -- for me what it represents is the excitement and the opportunity long term in building compelling devices for consumers and businesses around the world. There's so much innovation still to get done, there's so many new form factors, so many new use cases and I think it's great to see with the ecosystem does when it works together, as I mentioned before. In terms of the price points in mass market we'll just wait and see how that evolves before commenting on that. Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tim Klasell of Stifel Nicolaus. Go ahead, your line is open.

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, good afternoon, everybody. Just a question on the EDD. You mentioned a little softening in the console sales, do you think that's due to shifting towards lower priced units, or is that business just getting more seasonal? When we model that going forward should we make that and more seasonal holiday type of (inaudible) than we currently do?

PETER KLEIN: In terms of the over -- first of all, we feel -- for our console business we feel really good about our relative position in the market and our ability to take share. We have a strong competitive position. In terms of the seasonality, I don't think there's anything that indicates it's more or less seasonal than we see in the past. Like many consumer businesses like this it will always be relatively stronger at the holiday season. And in terms of some of the mixes, some of it's a function of product cycle. If you think about the Kinect centers and how we have sole those into our install base and now we're selling more bundles, those kinds of things, but seasonality hasn't marginally -- hasn't materially shifted.

BILL KOEFOED: Obviously, when big title games come out that tends to also drive a big cycle so that's always something to pay attention to around this business. Okay, operator, we're going to take one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Okay, our next question comes from Robert Breza of RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead, your line is open.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thanks for squeezing me in. Bill, maybe could you just comment a little bit on -- I think it was the Credit Suisse analyst talking about the Windows 8 release at the end of February? Given the complexity you're adding to Windows 8 with mobile, et cetera, making that across platform experience, do you expect that to delay the traditional milestones, or how should we think about Windows 8 going forward? Thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: I wouldn't think about traditional milestones. I would say one of the things that Tammy talked about at CES last week was just how important it is for us to work on and with developers to create a really vibrant developer ecosystem. So one of the things we also talked with the beta release with the Windows store, really making sure -- we're going to have quite a few apps that are going to be up on the Windows store at beta. Obviously, one of the things she and (inaudible) talked about last week is that any Windows 7 PC could run Windows 8 but obviously there'll be some new and interesting form factors that are going to come out here as we get further on down the road. So I don't know that I would think about it except, as we said earlier, we're on track, we feel really good about where we are in the product and this next super important milestone is the beta release and having a really great developer ecosystem to surround that. Great question.

ROBERT BREZA: Okay.

BILL KOEFOED: So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous conferences in which we'll be participating at this quarter. For those of you unable to attend any of those events in person you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact me or anyone on my team if you need additional details. Thank you, again, for joining us today and have a great afternoon. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference. Thank you for participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
iappsp : Cloud Computing/SaaS | iindstrls : Industrials | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i8394 : Computer Services | icomp : Computing | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120203e81j000dx
  


 HD
 Q1  2012 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,715 words
   PD
20 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to Microsoft's fiscal year 2012 first quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded. If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed, General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORP: Thank you, Carol, and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website is our financial summary slide deck which is intended to follow our prepared remarks and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. This information is available at Microsoft.com/investor. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until October 20, 2012.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factor section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. Okay and with that, I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP: Thanks, Bill, and thanks everyone for joining us. Today, I'm pleased to share with you our first quarter financial results. We started fiscal year 2012 with good momentum. We have great products in market, customer satisfaction is high, and we have important strategic investments and alliances to position us well for long-term growth.

This quarter we saw revenue growth across all of our segments. Similar to prior periods, we continue to see broad-based demand across geographies, including Europe. Within our segments, the Microsoft Business Division continued its momentum, with revenue of $5.6 billion, growth of 8%.

Despite the best efforts of competitors, Office remains the overwhelming choice for productivity, evolving with our customers and posting impressive revenues. We are extremely pleased by the market reception to Office 2010 this far into the launch cycle.

We are 15 months post-launch, but we still saw an increase in the consumer PC attach rate for Office this quarter. And for businesses, Office 2010 remains a top priority. Just as importantly, businesses are also adopting our productivity server applications, including Lync, SharePoint and Exchange, either on-premise, or in the cloud with Office 365.

The early success of Office 365 has surpassed our expectations. Businesses around the world and of all sizes are making the commitment to Microsoft's cloud services.

Our business infrastructure offerings, including Windows Server, Hyper-V, and System Center are a top priority for enterprises. The flexibility, performance, scalability and price advantage of our private cloud products uniquely meet the needs of the market. And with Windows Azure, we enable our customers to build new applications and extend their existing private cloud assets to the public cloud.

As we discussed at our financial analyst meeting, we are increasingly delivering integrated experiences across multiple devices, from the phone to the Xbox and TV, and to the PC. Earlier this month, we launched an updated version of our Windows Phone operating system with a broad array of new features and services, including enhanced integration with Bing, Xbox LIVE and Office 365.

With Nokia, Samsung and other devices coming to market, we are well positioned to become the third mobile ecosystem. In the living room, we continue to differentiate the entertainment experience for Xbox users around the world, and we recently announced partnerships with nearly 40 leading TV and entertainment providers.

Powered by Kinect and voice searched through Bing, users will be able to easily search and enjoy content from a large collection of content providers through their XBox 360 consoles. And on the PC, Windows 7 is the operating system of choice for almost 0.5 billion people around the world.

Combined with the innovative hardware being brought to market by our OEM partners this holiday season, Windows will continue to deliver the great experiences that people want.

During the quarter, we unveiled the developer preview of the next version of our PC operating system. Windows 8 creates a modern platform designed for a new generation of hardware experiences enabled by touch and a diversity of chip architectures.

In search, monetization of our ad platform remains below our expectations, and we continue to partner closely with Yahoo! to address the platform gaps and inefficiencies. We recently agreed to extend the RPS guaranteed payments to Yahoo! reflecting the strength of our partnership and our continued commitment and optimism about the financial opportunity ahead of us.

Last week, we reached a significant milestone with the closing of our acquisition of Skype. We welcome Skype employees into the Microsoft family, and we welcome the over 170 million people who rely on Skype for their voice and video calls on a monthly basis.

Now that the deal is closed, we are starting the integration of Skype's world-class services and global-networked platform across our portfolio of products and services, including Lync, Windows Live Messenger, Windows Phone and the Xbox platform. Together, we will redefine social and real-time communications for consumers and businesses around the world.

In summary, we are off to a good start to the year. Customer demand across the breadth of our product portfolio was healthy, and we remained focused on our strategic investments and partnerships that will help drive future growth. With that, I'm going to hand it back to Bill to provide some more details on our results.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. First, I'm going to review our overall results and then move on to the details by business segment. Revenue for the quarter was $17.4 billion, up $1.2 billion, or 7% year-over-year.

Operating income was $7.2 billion dollars, cash flow from operations was $8.5 billion, and earnings per share was $0.68, an increase of 10%. Foreign exchange did not materially impact our net income during the quarter.

Coming off a record Q4, enterprise demand for our products remained strong and our customers continued to add both products and seats to their enterprise agreements. At the end of the quarter, unearned revenue was $15.7 billion and our contracted-not-billed remained over $18.5 billion.

Turning to the PC market, we estimate that the overall market grew 1% to 3%. Within that, PC sales to emerging markets continued to outpace developed markets. Business PCs grew 5% to a quarterly record of almost 35 million PCs. And consumer PCs were flat, primarily impacted by weakness in netbook sales.

Now I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live Division where revenue was up 2% and grew in line with the PC market. As usual, you'll find the OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck.

Overall, the Windows business continued to show momentum. During the quarter, we surpassed 450 million copies of Windows 7 sold since launch and enterprise deployments of Windows 7 progressed. This quarter, OEM licenses grew 4%, and within that business licenses grew 6%.

While we have seen the cannibalization of netbooks, sales of Windows licenses on traditional consumer PCs showed healthy growth of 14%. As we look towards the holiday season, we are particularly excited about the line-up of impressive ultrabooks that will be in market from our OEM partners.

Now I'll move on to the Microsoft Business Division where revenue grew 8%. Consumer revenue increased 7% despite difficult comps from the year ago launch of Office 2010. The business transactional portion grew 3%, driven by strong attach in developed markets partially offset by the impact of PC geographical market mix. The multi-year licensing portion of the business grew 9%.

Collaboration and communication continued to be a pillar of strength to our Office business. Lync, SharePoint and Exchange, collectively, grew double digits. Lync revenue grew over 25%, as customers increasingly chose Microsoft for their voice and video rollouts. We are focused on the opportunities in this large and growing market.

With Skype's highly engaged users spending an average of 125 minutes per month, we're particularly excited about the role Skype can play in connecting individuals and businesses together with voice and video.

Last quarter, we announced the launch of Office 365, the latest version of our cloud-based productivity platform. We are thrilled with the early results. In the first 10 weeks of Office 365 availability, the number of new customers exceeded what took us over 2 years to build with the first version of our business productivity online service.

Also, we have seen Office 365 customers buy more products and drive new revenue streams. For example, when we have won a competitive bid in the enterprise for messaging and e-mail, 80% of the new customers have brought SharePoint and Lync in addition to Exchange. And historically, small businesses have only bought Office. But today, with Office 365, 80% of the time we've seen them buy the bundle of SharePoint, Lync and Exchange.

Now let's move on to Server and Tools which posted 10% revenue growth and grew faster than the server market. Our multi-year license revenue continued to perform well and grew double digits this quarter. Enterprise Services revenue was up 17%.

Windows Server premium and System Center revenues grew mid-teens, as the build out of private cloud environments and the virtualization of data centers has increased server density and has shifted buying behaviors toward our premium Enterprise offerings.

Our data platform business also continued to perform well. SQL Server Premium revenue grew nearly 20% this quarter as customers increasingly looked to SQL Server to power their business intelligence and mission critical workloads.

We continue to build on our strong Server and Tools portfolio. At our BUILD developer conference in September, we took the wraps off Windows Server 8, the next major release of the world's most-used Server operating system, which will be cloud-optimized to work in both private and hybrid cloud scenarios.

In addition, we highlighted our data platform with the upcoming release of SQL Server 2012. We also announced our plans to support Apache Hadoop, both on Windows Azure and Windows Server, to embrace big data.

Next, I'll move to the Online Services Division, where revenue grew 19%. Online advertising revenue was up nearly 21%, driven primarily by search. Bing's US organic market share ended the quarter at 14.7%, up 30 basis points this quarter and 350 basis points year over year. This quarter, we made progress in differentiating our offering by deepening Bing's social integration with Facebook and Twitter, and made enhancements that simplify decision-making and task-completion.

While online services improved its year-over-year operating performance, we continued to face monetization challenges, which we are partnering closely with Yahoo! to resolve.

Now let me move to the Entertainment & Devices Division where revenue grew 9% and we continued our leadership of the US console market. Gears of War 3, which is only available on Xbox, effectively kicked off the holiday season and sold 3 million units in its first week of release.

Gaming is an important component of living room entertainment and in addition to our blockbusters such as Forza 4, Dance Central 2, Halo Anniversary and Kinect Sports Season 2, there will be over 70 Kinect titles available for the holidays. Beyond gaming, next quarter is also when nearly 35 million Xbox LIVE users will begin to enjoy the new television content and experiences from our announced partnerships.

During the quarter, we released the updated version of Windows Phone to market and it has received favorable reviews from both industry press and our customers. We also signed a broad agreement with Samsung that includes increased collaboration on the development and marketing of Windows Phones.

Now, let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold was driven by the following. First, we saw an increase in royalty cost resulting from strong transactional sales on Xbox LIVE and the increased sales of royalty-bearing Xbox 360 games, notably Gears of War 3. Second, Enterprise Services continued to grow rapidly. Third, online service costs increased, which included Yahoo! traffic acquisition costs.

Operating expenses were $6.4 billion, an increase of 8%, primarily due to compensation changes, legal expenses, and Puerto Rican excise taxes. In the first quarter we increased our dividend to $0.20, an increase of 25%, and we returned $2.7 billion to shareholders in buybacks and dividends.

So, in summary, we saw broad-based strength in our businesses and got off to a good start to the year, both in revenue and EPS. With that I will hand it back to Peter, who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the second quarter and full year. Beginning with the Windows and Windows Live Division, we expect revenue to continue to be impacted by market dynamics similar to what we experienced the past several quarters, with PC growth in emerging markets significantly outpacing growth in developed markets.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division. Transactional revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total, will likely lag the overall PC market for both the second quarter and full fiscal year, reflecting a higher mix of PC shipments to emerging markets, and the prior year launch impact.

In addition, when updating your models, remember that last year we recognized $224 million of revenue related to the Office 2010 tech guarantee. Multi-year licensing revenue, approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow mid-to-high single digits for the second quarter and low double-digits for the full fiscal year.

Moving to Server and Tools. Approximately 30% of the division's revenue comes from transactional licensing, 50% from multi-year licensing, and 20% from enterprise services. For the second quarter and full fiscal year -- we expect transactional revenue to generally track with the hardware market. Multi-year licensing revenue should grow low double-digits, and enterprise services revenue should grow about 20%.

Turning to the Online Services Division. We are focused on improving the financial performance of our search business. Our number 1 priority is to resolve the monetization challenges of the combined ad platform. We are working very closely with Yahoo! on bridging the RPS gap. As we improve RPS, revenue should track the online advertising market more closely.

Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division. Including Skype, we now expect revenue to grow low double-digits for the second quarter and high teens for the full fiscal year.

Switching to overall cost of goods sold for the Company. We expect COGS growth to have similar dynamics to what we experienced the past 3 quarters. Growth will be driven by increased Xbox console sales, Xbox LIVE royalty costs, the inclusion of Skype, Enterprise Services, and online costs, including Yahoo! traffic acquisition costs.

We have adjusted our fiscal year operating expense guidance to include Skype and the associated integration costs. As a result, we now expect operating expenses to be $28.6 billion to $29.2 billion for the full fiscal year. We expect our effective tax rate to be 19% to 21% for the second quarter and full fiscal year, and we still expect capital expenditures to be about $2.5 billion for the full fiscal year.

For the second quarter, we expect unearned revenue to roughly follow historical seasonal patterns. We continue to expect unearned revenue at the end of the fiscal year to grow low double-digits compared to the prior fiscal year.

As I discussed at our financial analyst meeting last month, we have a balanced approach to capital allocation, investing in growth, returning cash to shareholders, and maintaining a strong balance sheet. We are investing in the significant growth opportunities we see for our businesses by building integrated products that deliver a differentiated value proposition, and accelerating our growth in compelling scenarios, like real-time communications with the acquisition of Skype.

We will also continue to return cash to shareholders. This quarter, we increased our dividend 25%, and we are continuing our $40 billion share repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors in 2008, of which $11.2 billion remain.

In summary, our financial results this quarter build upon an already strong financial foundation, 1 that provides stability while at the same time giving us the flexibility to take advantage of growth opportunities. And with that, I'll turn it back to Bill and we'll take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get to questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just 1 question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Carol, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time we will begin the question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thanks very much. My question is about Skype. Is 100% of the Skype revenue going to be in the E&D segment? And if it is, it looks like the revenue and earnings contribution, or OpEx contribution is a little bit lower than what I would have expected. Are there any write-downs or any shifts or any transitional issues that we should be thinking about in terms of the run rate for Skype relative to what it was historically?

PETER KLEIN: Well, there is going to be integration associated costs, some amortization of IP, things like that, that you may or may not be considering. But, yes, it will all appear in E&D.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Nomura.

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thanks. I'm used to a little more controversy. It seems pretty clean. On Skype, Peter, can you just talk a little bit about the model for Skype? What are you going to do different to get the revenues up? How do you monetize Skype? And then also just on ultrabooks, you've got that issue in Thailand with the floods that Western Digital says is going to take out a lot of production. Are you anticipating any problem with PCs and maybe that shifts the market over to solid state and these ultrabooks look interesting. Any reason to believe that we could see some actual acceleration in the market from adoption of ultrabooks or are you thinking we might see some slowdown because of what we've seen in Thailand?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks Rick. Let me -- I'll start with the Skype question and then we'll get to the other question. Obviously, we -- the first thing I'll say is we closed the deal last week so we're real-time doing a lot of the great work on the product integration planning. We've got folks here in the building, as we speak, really working hard on what the plans are going to be. And so I think, over time, it will become more clear.

I think as we've been talking about since we announced the acquisition, the opportunities are incredibly exciting across the portfolio of our products, whether it's Lync or Windows Live Messenger or Xbox or on the Phone. So I think not only are there great opportunities to integrate across our portfolio but as they were working on, even before we announced the acquisition, new revenue opportunities related to advertising and premium services. So all of that is coming together as we speak and, mostly, we're incredibly excited to get to work together more fully now that the deal is closed.

In terms of your question about Thailand, the first thing I want to say, obviously, is our thoughts go out to all of the individuals that are affected there and we're thinking about them. In terms of the impact of that, you're correct, it doesn't impact solid state, which is good. And I would say this about overall the impact., I think historically, the global supply chain has been pretty resilient to occurrences like this. And so, over time, we'll have to watch this very carefully to see what the overall impact is.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Peter, I was just wondering, the Windows attach and inventory boost was a nice pick-up this quarter. I'm just wondering is it -- if you could give us a sense of how you're doing from a piracy standpoint in terms of that is what helped in the quarter. Did you actually see more inventory build?

PETER KLEIN: We saw both. So it was some inventory and some attach. We're definitely seeing improvements in attach across the board. So definitely making some improvements on piracy. And then some of that improvement was a little bit of inventory build as we head into the holiday. But to your point, we're definitely seeing improvements in attach this quarter, which was a big driver.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Hi, thanks. Bill, I'm wondering as you look at the OSD losses here, you actually lost less money than we thought on the revenue number that was lower. Just first, wondering if you could comment going forward if we should expect that this level of loss is what we should sustain? And then as you look at the model overall, we saw lower losses but that didn't flow through as much to the bottom line as we might have expected. How are you thinking about any upside that comes through the lower losses in OSD and impacting the bottom line of the Company overall?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Walter. As we've been saying, the key to this profitability to this business is to continue to grow our revenue. And to do that, we have to continue to grow share and grow our revenue per search and that's certainly what we're focused on. Obviously, it's a high fixed cost business. Within that, we have been managing the expenses. And so we are taking every opportunity to manage the profitability of that business.

But by far, the most important thing to continue to increase the profitability is to make sure we can continue to grow the revenue. And to do that, we need to make sure we get the revenue per search up. So that's what we're laser focused on. That's what we've got people working closely with Yahoo! on every day and we'll continue to focus on that. And that's the most leveraged thing we can do for OSD profitability and, ultimately, the Company's bottom line.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, I just wanted to drill into the Skype contribution a little bit more. Just wondering if there's certain products you're going to be discontinuing, certain services or new things, conversely, that you're going to be adding. And also this one-time transition type expenses, Peter, if you could quantify how much of that will impact the panel that you've already guided to in the quarter just to get an understanding of how much will go away as you said [led to] a steady state on the Skype business? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Kash. It's -- clearly it's a little premature to talk about the changes and what we're going to do with the products. So as I said, mostly what we've seen this week is an incredible excitement with their engineering people and our engineering people getting together to talk about all the opportunities. As we flush those plans out, obviously, we'll have a lot more to say about that. And in terms of the expense side, what I would say is everything that's included there is included in our guidance framework that we gave you. So that's probably the best guidance I can give you on those expenses.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Phillip Winslow, Credit Suisse,

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, thanks. Another good quarter, guys. Just want to focus back on MBD. You guys have been trending at or above, frankly, PC shipments for several quarters now. Where do you think we stand on just the adoption cycle, particularly in the large enterprise of office 2010 and especially when we think about rolling the ecosystem out. Where are we in that? And also, Bill, just one quick follow-up. I think you gave the transactional revenue growth for MBD but I'm not sure if we could have -- give that for us over in Tools. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, on the last question, the transaction over at Server and Tool should track the hardware market.

PHILIP WINSLOW: Sorry. I meant this quarter.

PETER KLEIN: This quarter. Sorry. I'll answer the question. On MBD, it's really interesting. There is a couple of things going on, particularly in the enterprise that really provides sustenance for the ongoing business. One is the great traction we get from the integration of SharePoint and Exchange and Lync, with Office 2010, so not only is there really good resonance for the Office application but increasingly, as Bill talked about, customers are deploying communication and collaboration technology with that. There is a lot of legs to go on productivity server applications piece of the business. The second thing I would add is the cloud. Increasingly, every time we go in and talk to enterprises about productivity, they want to have a conversation about public cloud services.

Not necessarily because they want to deploy public cloud tomorrow, but they really want to understand the roadmap and understand where that's leading, and we found that creates an incredibly good conversation that then leads to a broader conversation of a long-term commitment to our platform and applications. And I think, obviously, that's a long-term phenomenon with a lot of room still to go. So, the way I think about it, yes, with the Office application, particularly on the transactional side coming off a launch year, there is some difficult comparables. But on the enterprise side with the additional products and the cloud, that's really been a driver of our growth and it is really a long-term catalyst.

BILL KOEFOED: And, Phil, transactional for STB was low single digits which we believe was roughly in line with the server/hardware market, as Peter mentioned.

PHILIP WINSLOW: Great. Thanks, guys.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Thanks, guys. I had 2 quick ones on the guidance. Peter, first on the Windows and Windows Live. In the previous quarters you've talked about business PCs no longer outpacing consumer. That language isn't in. Is that no longer as big a factor? And then, second on the Server and Tools. You've pretty substantially increased your guidance around the Enterprise Services revenue. I'm wondering what is accounting for that uptick? And we saw good strength of that in the quarter as well.

PETER KLEIN: We are still seeing business outpacing consumer, so thank you for that. And then on the Enterprise Services, it's interesting. We're really seeing healthy demand for our consulting services to help people architect and deploy the next generation of the products that we're bringing to market, both in Server and Tools and MBD. You can see the connection there, right, Server and Tools continuing to grow double digits. People are really investing in their data centers and in the private cloud. And we're helping people do that and also think about and contemplate what that is going to mean to migrate to the public cloud, ultimately.

The same thing is true with the productivity server applications. How do you start deploying a Lync and SharePoint? How do you think about transitioning to Office 365 over time? So we're really seeing -- we've got a strong pipeline of business there, and that's why you're seeing the growth both in the cost, frankly, to service that demand because, obviously, it's a variable cost business.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Thanks. Peter, just on the enterprise business, any changes in customer behaviors as the quarter progressed or as you look at your pipeline. I think there has, obviously, been some concern over some more scrutiny around some larger deal sizes. I was just curious in terms of what you're seeing.

PETER KLEIN: No. We didn't see any changes in that [flavor] throughout the quarter.

BILL KOEFOED: And I would just add, unearned came in right in line with our expectations. So we continued to execute well on the annuity side for sure. Carol, next question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Mark [Mulder], Bernstein.

MARK MULDER, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN RESEARCH: Hello. I wanted to do a little bit on the hosting costs which, on MBD, was a big chunk of the increase in cost of revenue. How much do you think this is pointing to a low margin as Office 365 and Dynamics Online gain traction? So what do you think we should be modeling against?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, no. Great question. Obviously, particularly in the short run delivering a service has a different margin profile than delivering software. It's going to have a lower gross margin percentage but ultimately, should have a higher gross profit dollar. So what you should be thinking about is, as we scale, you see accelerated revenue growth at a lower gross margin percentage and higher gross profit dollars.

BILL KOEFOED: But I would add we're such in the early days there that I don't think that it's had a big impact on our business performance to date.

PETER KLEIN: That is correct. That was a long-term business model perspective that it's not material today.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. John DiFucci, JPMC.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you. Peter, the -- I think bookings were flat this quarter from a year ago, and I assume you got some benefit from foreign exchange so on a constant currency basis, they're probably down a little bit. This is after 4 quarters of some really nice growth here. I think the last time it was flat or down was during the recession. Is this simply a sign of some difficult macro -- of a difficult macro environment or was it just a difficult comp year-over-year or even a strong quarter last quarter that might have pulled some business forward?

PETER KLEIN: Exactly. Thanks, John. It's definitely more of the latter. Across the board, all of our metrics for revenue, transactional, unearned, C&D, and all what we expected and it's really just a function of year-over-year comps and the strong Q4 that we had and we're excited about the pipeline as we head into Q2. And as you know, Q1 is probably our lowest selling quarter anyway during the year seasonally. So we feel good as we head into Q2.

BILL KOEFOED: And we reflected that in our unearned guidance that we gave you last quarter, which was we expected sequential Q4 to Q1. Sequentially, it would decline a little bit more than normal. I would say it came in line with what we had expected it to be, as I said earlier.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: Hi, Peter. Can you just update us on the percentage of cash that's offshore and just give us a sense as to how much onshore cash you need to have to comfortably run operations?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, of our cash, about $51 billion is offshore.

COLIN GILLIS: Okay. And what percentage of cash do you need to keep onshore just to keep the lights on and the dividends getting paid?

PETER KLEIN: That's not how we think about it. We've got plenty of cash. It's not an issue.

COLIN GILLIS: Okay. Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Great. Thanks a lot. Peter, as we think about the Xbox LIVE business, you've greatly expanded the content available there. Are there opportunities here for additional premium service contracts with people or is it going to be mainly transactional to get that content?

PETER KLEIN: Well, without being specific about this particular case, I think, from a business model perspective, you're thinking about it right. There is lots of opportunities to think about how you might monetize, delivering unique and compelling entertainment experiences and that's clearly how we think about it. That's -- it's been the strategy with Xbox business all along, right. Once you get that incredible installed base of engaged users, how can you deliver a set of interactive entertainment experiences across the board and what that means and from a business model perspective, there is lots of interesting ways to monetize that.

BILL KOEFOED: I would just add, as you've seen our results, Xbox LIVE has been phenomenal both in terms of growth of users, growth in revenues, the content that we have coming out this holiday season is going to be super exciting. And, obviously, as I mentioned in my remarks, we're going to have over 70 games out this holiday season. So we believe that we have the most compelling entertainment experience in the living room. And hopefully, for those of you who don't have it, you should go out and check it out this holiday season because it's going to be pretty exciting. Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ed Maguire, CLSA.

EDWARD MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, good afternoon. I just wanted to ask a question following the announcement of your Samsung deal, what your assumptions are for royalties around mobile phones and also whether you've built in any assumptions from Phone into entertainment devices?

BILL KOEFOED: So in terms of the deal, we haven't announced any of the specific terms of the deal. We talked conceptually about the deal and we're super excited about their commitment to the platform and all of that related to that is included in the Entertainment and Devices Division. Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Thank you. I just had a follow-up to Adam's question. You raised your guidance, Peter, for the EDD business this year to high teens growth, although, of course, this now includes Skype. So a couple of questions around that. First, do you still expect to see mid-teens growth for the EDD business organically and second, I don't know that there are that many long-term Skype subscribers but is there going to be a deferred revenue write-down for Skype? And if so, how much? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: I think it's -- why don't we -- the second question, we'll talk to you about when we actually report Skype results after the next quarter because we just closed that last week. And on the E&D business, I would say generally, yes, our guidance is in line with guidance we have given before.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Carol, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Tim Klassell, Stifel Nicolaus.

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, good afternoon, everybody. Follow-up question to Brendan's comment about business PCs growing faster than consumer PCs. Where do you think we are in the Enterprise Windows 7 upgrade cycle? Are we middle innings, beginning, towards the end? How do you guys feel about that?

PETER KLEIN: No, I think we're middle innings. I think we expect that dynamic of business PCs growing faster to last throughout this fiscal year at least. So I would say middle innings.

TIM KLASELL: Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, let's take one more call, please.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES, LLC: Hi. Good afternoon, guys. Since fixing the Yahoo! RPS challenge is obviously an issue for improving OSD, how do you guys go about ensuring that there won't be any disruption to your efforts given all of the, call it, market talk about what is happening with Yahoo!? Because clearly if it's acquired or split up, there is all potential outcomes that could cause maybe more disruption to what you're trying to accomplish. So how do you preserve the process, if you will?

PETER KLEIN: We've got a really good relationship with Yahoo! This is a long-term alliance. Everybody is working really well together. They're super focused on what we need to do. And no matter what, that's the goal at hand. And the teams are working really well together to do that. So that's how we're approaching it and focused on it.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay. So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thanks again for joining us today and have a good afternoon.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's presentation. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111104e7ak000dy
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,217 words
   PD
21 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Welcome to the fourth-quarter 2011 Microsoft Corporation conference call. All lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer session. Today's call is being recorded.

   TD
If anyone has any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed, General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill, you may begin.

BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORP.: Thank you, Carol, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. As usual with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

On our website is our financial summary slide deck which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks and provide the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. This information is available at microsoft.com/investor.

As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available. Today's call is being webcast live and recorded.

If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and to any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until July 21, 2012.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Qs and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. Okay, and with that, I will turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORP.: Thanks, Bill, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. I'm pleased to share with you our financial results for the fourth quarter which rounded out a solid fiscal year.

We closed the year with terrific sales execution as enterprises furthered their commitment to our Windows, Office and Server products. Customers continued to invest in our business desktop offerings including Windows 7 where enterprise deployments have increased almost 50% since March.

Our overall multiyear licensing business was especially strong driven by attach of additional seats and additional products. As a result, fourth-quarter bookings were up 17%.

As I look back on fiscal year 2011, we delivered strong financial results and products while making strategic investments and alliances that will allow us to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities. We grew fiscal year 2011 revenue double digits and we delivered another year of operating margin expansion. We also grew earnings per share by more than 20% for the second year in a row.

Our financial results reflect Office 2010's outstanding market reception. Deployment remains five times faster than the previous version.

Customers are also adding our business productivity applications including Exchange, SharePoint, Link and Dynamics to their multiyear agreements. These four products collectively drove approximately 30% of the Business Division's growth this year.

We made great progress on our Cloud initiatives this year. We continue to lead the industry through this transformation by enabling our customers to transition to the cloud in a flexible customized way.

Last month we launched Office 365, the latest generation of our cloud productivity service. With Office 365, we've created new profit growth opportunities for us and our partners while enabling scenarios that weren't viable in the past.

In the enterprise, Office 365 enables us to increase revenue and profit per seat while strengthening customer commitment through increased product satisfaction and high return on investment. This gives us new opportunities to address the workforce that doesn't regularly use a PC in the workplace.

For small and mid-sized businesses, we now offer a productivity solution with simple deployment and low upfront cost. And with 80% of small businesses having never purchased a business productivity application aside from Office, the opportunity for Microsoft and our partners is significant.

During the year, we made important platform enhancements to Windows Azure, driving increased developer interest and momentum and enabling new scenarios. Companies such as Pixar, Toyota and Boeing have leveraged Azure to develop innovative solutions and enhanced experiences for their customers.

At the same time, building private cloud infrastructure remains a top priority for many of our customers, and Windows Server, System Center and SQL Server are scaling with the increased workloads in data centers. In search, Bing continues to gain market share and this quarter, we further differentiated our platform by deepening our relationship with Facebook.

During the quarter, we partnered closely with Yahoo! to uncover and address several platform gaps and inefficiencies. We still face monetization challenges and will continue to work closely with Yahoo!. We remain confident in the long-term potential of the combined search marketplace.

During the year, we reinvigorated our Xbox franchise with a refreshed console and with Kinect which revolutionized home entertainment and natural user interface technology. We also had great momentum with Xbox LIVE which now has approximately 35 million members. Together, these products and services drove record fiscal year revenue and operating income in the Entertainment and Devices Division.

In May we announced our agreement to acquire Skype which will extend Skype's world-class brand and global reach of its network platform while at the same time enhancing Microsoft's existing portfolio of products and services. With Skype, we will increase the accessibility of real-time video and voice communications to both consumers and enterprises, thereby generating new business and revenue opportunities for Microsoft.

In summary, we're pleased with the terrific market response to our products and our great sales execution, both of which helped drive our solid financial results for the quarter and full fiscal year. We also continue to be excited by our strategic investments in alliance which will allow us to capitalize on long-term growth opportunities.

With that, I'm going to hand it back to Bill to provide more details on our results and then I'll come back to provide some thoughts on our outlook for the first quarter and full fiscal year 2012.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. First, I'm going to review our overall results and then move on to the details by business segment.

Revenue for the quarter was $17.4 billion, up 8% year over year, while bookings were up 17%. For the year, revenue was $69.9 billion, growth of 12%.

Operating income was $6.2 billion for the quarter and for the year a record $27.2 billion, up over $3 billion from the prior year. For the quarter, earnings per share was $0.69. For the year, earnings per share was $2.69, up 28%, the second consecutive year of EPS growth over 20%.

This quarter, enterprise demand for our products remains strong and multiyear commitments drove our unearned revenue balance to $17.1 billion. Our contracted not billed balanced is now over $18.5 billion.

The PC market dynamics were similar to the third quarter. First, the business PC refresh cycle continued and drove estimated business PC growth of 8%.

Second, PC sales to emerging markets continued to grow at a rapid pace as a record number of people around the world are using Windows PCs. We estimate that this quarter over 40 million PCs representing half of all global PC shipments were shipped to emerging markets.

We estimate the worldwide consumer PC market declined 2%, primarily driven by weakness in developed markets. In total, we estimate the PC market increased 1% to 3% in the fourth quarter.

Now I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live Division where revenue was down 1%, reflecting the PC market dynamics I just described. As usual, you'll find the OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck.

Last week at our worldwide partner conference, we announced that we've sold over 400 million units of Windows 7. 25% of enterprise desktops have already deployed Windows 7 and as we have stated before, over 90% of enterprises have committed to a deployment plan.

During the quarter, we also provided an update of Windows 8. We demonstrated how we have reimagined Windows for a new generation of touch-centric hardware. You'll hear more at our BUILD developer conference this September.

Now, I will move on to the Microsoft Business Division which grew 7%. Consumer revenue declined 8%.

The weak consumer PC dynamics in developed markets were partially offset by strong attach rates. The business transactional portion grew 27% driven primarily by business PC growth and continued launch cycle momentum.

The multiyear licensing portion of the business grew 6%. We launched Office 2010 one year ago and for the year, the Business Division's revenue increased to over $22 billion, an increase of 16%. Link, SharePoint and Dynamics all continued to grow double digits this quarter.

Within our Dynamics business which grew 19%, we saw strong growth and share gains across products. We added 300,000 new seats on [dynamics] CRM and now 2 million users leverage Dynamics CRM everyday.

Now let's move on to the Server and Tools business which posted 12% revenue growth. Transactional revenue grew faster than the underlying server hardware market which we estimate grew mid-single digits.

Multiyear license revenue grew 12% and Enterprise Services revenue grew 14%. Our premium Windows Server and System Center revenues were both up over 20%.

Customers are using Microsoft technology to virtualize their data center and build out private cloud environments. System Center revenue has also grown double digits 10 consecutive quarters.

We are seeing customers continue to adopt SQL Server as they deploy mission-critical applications and implement cost effective business intelligence capabilities. As a result, SQL Server Premium revenue grew almost 20%.

Last week we previewed Windows Server 8 and the next version of System Center. These products will further enhance customers' private cloud deployments while bridging their investments to the public cloud. We'll also share more details on these at Build in September.

Our cloud computing platform, Windows Azure, continues to have strong customer momentum while revenue growth accelerates. During the quarter, we showcased innovative Azure implementations with Boeing and General Mills, demonstrating the power and flexibility of the platform.

Next I will move to the Online Services Division where revenue grew 17%. Online advertising revenue grew 20%, driven primarily by search.

Bing's US organic market share ended the quarter at 14.4%, up 340 basis points from last year. During the quarter, we launched new features based on Facebook's social graph to help people make better, smarter decisions.

As Peter mentioned, we continue to experience challenges with RPS and we're partnering closely with Yahoo! to resolve these as quickly as possible. Now, let me move to the Entertainment Devices Division where revenue grew 30%.

During the quarter we sold over 1.7 million consoles, an increase of 18%. Xbox 360 was the number one selling console in the US for the year.

At E3 in June, we announced the upcoming releases of Gears of War 3, Forza 4, Kinect Star Wars, Kinect Disneyland Adventures, Dance Central 2, Kinect Sports Season 2 and many more games. Xbox LIVE also continues to grow rapidly and consumer online engagement with the service remains a core part of our Xbox value proposition.

Xbox LIVE has entertainment content from partners such as ESPN, Hulu, Netflix, and BSkyB and this fall we will make it even easier to find and access content via integration between Kinect and Bing. We believe the combination of these core features will help drive even broader engagement within the Xbox LIVE ecosystem.

In May, we previewed Mango which is our fall release of Windows Phone. Mango will deliver deeper social experiences, multitasking, Office 365 integration and will feature Internet Explorer 9 to optimize the browsing experience.

During the quarter, we also signed the Nokia alliance, added several new OEM partners, launched on Verizon and Sprint, and saw the number of applications in the marketplace increase 60% sequentially. Now let me cover the remainder of the income statement.

In the quarter, cost of goods sold increased 17% and had similar drivers as last quarter. Hardware costs are up due to the success of Xbox 360 consoles and Kinect sensors.

Third-party content royalties are also up, reflecting strong sales on Xbox LIVE. Enterprise Services in our Server and Tools business continues to grow rapidly, and online services costs are also up, reflecting increased traffic acquisition costs including costs related to the Yahoo! alliance. Operating expenses were $7.5 billion, an increase of 8% primarily due to recently legislated Puerto Rican excise taxes and an increase in selling related costs.

During the quarter we made the following adjustments to our full-year tax rate which impacted our effective tax rate for the fourth quarter. First, we made adjustments to reflect our actual mix of foreign and US taxable income for the year.

And second, we completed our tax filing which resulted in adjustments reducing our tax provision. To think about the full-year tax rate, our effective rate was 19.2% after adjusting for the one-time benefit in the third quarter related to the IRS settlement. Operating cash flow for the fourth quarter was $5.9 billion, growth of 6% while operating cash flow for the full year was a record $27 billion, an increase of 12%.

In the fourth quarter we repurchased $1.6 billion of stock and declared $1.3 billion of dividends. For the full year we returned $16.9 billion of cash, an increase of 10% year over year, continuing our long-term commitment to return cash to shareholders. In the past five years, we have returned over $90 billion and reduced our outstanding share count by 1.7 billion shares or 17%.

In summary, we had a very solid quarter and year both from a product perspective and also with regard to delivering strong financial results and returning cash to shareholders. And with that, I will hand it back to Peter who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the upcoming quarter and full year.

As we enter fiscal year 2012, we are excited by the advancing trends in technology and the resulting opportunities for us to evolve our businesses. We expect increased diversity of hardware and services designed to satisfy users' growing demand for a unified consistent experience across multiple devices.

We also expect businesses and developers to continue their transition to the cloud, given the compelling economics and flexibility. We believe that with our current portfolio and investments, we're well-positioned to capitalize on these trends.

Now turning to our outlook by business. For the Windows and Windows Live Division, we expect revenue to continue to be impacted by market dynamics similar to what we experienced in the fourth quarter with emerging market growth significantly outpacing developed market growth.

While emerging markets are an important opportunity for us to increase Windows penetration, they impact revenue growth percentages as they generate lower average selling prices and have higher piracy rates. We also expect business PC growth to outpace consumer PC growth with the business PC refresh cycle continuing throughout the fiscal year.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division, transactional revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total, will likely lag the overall PC market for both the first quarter and full fiscal year, reflecting a higher mix of PC shipments to emerging markets and the launch of Office 2010 a year ago. Multiyear licensing revenue, approximately 60% of the division's total, should grow mid to high single digits for the first quarter and low double digits for the full fiscal year.

Moving to Server and Tools, approximately 30% of the division's revenue comes from transactional licensing, 50% from multiyear licensing and 20% from Enterprise Services. We expect transactional revenue to generally track with the hardware market for the first quarter and full fiscal year. We expect multiyear licensing revenue and enterprise services revenue to grow low double digits for the first quarter and full fiscal year.

Turning to the Online Services Division, we expect online advertising revenue to perform roughly in line with the overall online advertising market for the first quarter and full fiscal year. Within the Entertainment and Devices Division, we expect revenue to grow high single digits for the first quarter and mid-teens for the full fiscal year.

Keep in mind that first-quarter revenue will include a higher mix of hardware reflecting last September's Halo Reach launch and will result in gross margins similar to full fiscal year 2011 margin. Switching to overall cost of goods sold for the Company, the biggest factor impacting COGS going forward will be the shift of revenue mix across hardware, software, enterprise services and online services.

In fiscal year 2012, we will continue to prioritize our spending and manage our costs. We are reconfirming our guidance of 3 to 5% growth and expect operating expenses to be $28.0 billion to $28.6 billion for the full fiscal year. We expect our effective tax rate to be 19 to 21% for the first quarter and full fiscal year and we still expect capital expenditures for the full fiscal year to be about $2.5 billion.

Moving to unearned revenue, given our strong sales execution and our record unearned balance at the end of the fiscal year, unearned revenue in the first quarter will likely lag historical sequential growth patterns by a few points. We expect unearned revenue at the end of fiscal year 2012 to grow low double digits over this fiscal year.

In summary, we delivered solid financial results for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year. As we look towards fiscal year 2012, we have good product momentum in the market and are excited by the opportunity to help our customers take advantage of the advancing trends in technology. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bill and we will take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get to questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Carol, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: You mentioned in the slide deck there that 20% of the Fortune 500 has started to adopt the Office 365 online services and I'm assuming it's pretty early there, but I'm wondering if you could help us understand how quickly you expect that to progress throughout fiscal 2012 and sort of what impact we should see on the financial statements as that starts to happen in fiscal 2012 or maybe beyond.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, you see it hit the financial statement in two ways actually, Walter. One is -- will be in the actual Office 365 revenue, but also as we continue to have the conversations about the migration to the cloud, you see that show up in our multiyear licensing revenue and you saw some of that this quarter with our really strong multiyear licensing revenue across the board.

The market response so far has been great, we're really excited about it. We expect that to accelerate over time. But again I think you'll see it both ways. You'll see it in our multiyear licensing revenue and in our Office 365 revenue.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you and congrats on a good finish to the year.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks Adam.

ADAM HOLT: My question is about the E&D commentary for next year which was I think a surprise relative to certainly the consensus expectations in that it's a lot higher than where consensus was for next year. Can you talk a little bit about some of the detail behind the assumptions there, specifically what are you expecting or what is embedded around the Nokia relationship and what are you expecting and what is in the numbers around any kind of share gains following Mango? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Well, the single biggest driver in the E&D Division is going to be Xbox, right? So we've got great momentum in the marketplace with the console which we we refreshed a year ago; we have Kinect which just came to market last holiday with a bunch of new content titles that Bill talked about in terms of games as well as broader entertainment content.

So as we look to continue the momentum that we have with our share position in the marketplace, you see the strategy really coming together in that business; selling the installed base of the consoles and then having the social connectivity with Xbox LIVE and the broader entertainment portfolio. So a lot of that strength relates to the Xbox business.

Additionally, I think it's fair to say that our division thinks that we just scratched the surface of the possibilities with both the Xbox console and Kinect. Obviously as I talked about with the games we have coming out at Christmas, people are super excited about the possibilities there.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, Goldman Sachs.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thank you, Bill and Peter. I just had a quick question.

There's been a lot of talk about patent and money that you guys could be receiving for patent violations. How do we think about modeling those? If there's any tips you could give us or how do we think about those, where they would show up and kind of what segment they get embedded in? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Heather. I think the most important thing to think about stepping back is sort of our overall approach. We have a firm culture and belief in innovation, intellectual property and protecting our rights and intellectual property.

And we've done that consistently with an industrywide licensing program related to Android specifically, broadly too, but Android which infringes on some of our patents. I think we haven't talked a lot about what to expect from a modeling perspective on there. So you should just look to what we do on our licensing program going forward.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great quarter. Just going back to deferred revenue, obviously that was well ahead of consensus and I think it's the strongest year-over-year growth you've had in MBD since 06 and Server Tools since 08.

What really changed this quarter, the second half of fiscal year that drove that up so much from what we've been seeing over the past couple years? And just anything specific to those two divisions as well? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks. No, there's several things. One, the business refresh has continued as companies have out of the economic downturn of a few years ago.

They really are investing in technology. They're seeing the opportunities for technology to really enhance their value proposition and they're seeing the benefit of our technology.

They're really making a long-term commitment to our product set. In MBD, it's really about the intentional strategy we've had really over the last three to five years to sort of broaden the view of what productivity means and how we integrate not only the great new Office applications, but also with e-mail with Exchange, collaboration with SharePoint and more recently, communications with Link. And customers are really seeing the benefit of that.

We're really just starting to scratch the surface on that. As I said on the call, a lot of our revenue was driven by growth in those businesses.

If you add to that what we're doing with Dynamics and taking share in both ERP and CRM, it really is driving a lot of growth and that really is sustainable. At the same time in Server and Tools, we've really scaled our products across the board whether that's with the premium version of Windows Server and System Center and also SQL Server.

So as we've done that and customers are investing in their data centers and the private cloud implementations on the way to the public loud, we're really taking advantage of that, getting good double-digit growth there. So the combination of a really strong environment for businesses investing in the value of IT and our product set sort of across the board from infrastructure to application has been great.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Bill, next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, just on enterprise demand, is there any change in terms of what you are seeing in the US versus European demand profile?

PETER KLEIN: You know, this quarter we actually saw broad-based demand across all the geographies. Obviously emerging markets remain very strong but this quarter we saw demand and great sales execution really across Europe and the US.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Brent. Next question please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMC.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Bill, when you said 25% of enterprise desktops are already deployed with Windows 7 and 90% of enterprises have committed to a deployment plan, I'm just curious, is it fair to say that about -- that 25%, should we be thinking of those as largely on the lower end in the SMB that sort of act more like consumers? And does the committed -- your word there, committed -- does that mean that they've already contracted for or they've started to contract at a lower level and you expect that to continue going forward?

PETER KLEIN: That is a great question. On the enterprise side, clearly companies like JPMorgan have started looking at Windows 7, are working on the deployment plan.

When we think about the term committed, it means that either a Microsoft sales rep or a partner actually have plans in place where they are looking at a rollout schedule. So it's a very deliberate plan, they're engaged in testing.

In many cases -- I think we talked about that last quarter but not so much this quarter -- they're also rolling out Office 2010 at the same time that they're rolling out the Window 7 desktop. So we're excited obviously about the speed of the deployment process that has been underway, but we also think there's a lot of opportunity for the future.

And I think to your point, probably enterprises are a little bit further along just due to the -- probably the macroeconomic environment. We've seen more deliberate execution there than maybe in some of the other areas. That is a great question. Next question please, operator.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Peter, I was wondering if you could talk to -- I think your comment, you said that you believed unearned revenue could grow low double digits. I'm assuming most of that is going to be coming on the enterprise side and you specifically called out in your commentary some of the drivers to the growth. Could you maybe just help us clarify that in terms of the unearned revenue? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, you are correct. Most of that growth will come from the enterprise and it goes back to that strength we are seeing in selling multiyear licensing agreements and the demand we are seeing for the products that are across the portfolio of the Business Division and the Server and Tools business.

So the dynamics that we saw this past quarter we see playing out again next year and that will drive the unearned growth for the full year. I would add -- and I talked about this a little earlier but I'll go back to it again -- the conversations increasingly that we're having with the cloud whether that's Office 365 or Windows Azure or Windows Intune or Dynamics CRM Online, really play into that as well because we find increasingly customers wanting to make long-term commitments when they see that migration path to the cloud as well. And that you'll see come into I think even more play this year.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, I think communicating our roadmap to our customers has been a big advantage and they like our roadmap, they're committed to our roadmap and that's been a really good thing. Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Peter, on the revenue per search aspect with Yahoo!, can you give us any sense how far along the road you are are? Do you think you are 50% of the way to getting the problem solved?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Brad, it's a good question. What we think and what we say and what we believe is we're on a path and we're totally aligned with Yahoo! on this and the collaboration has been fantastic and the right people are focused on it is we'll have this turned around by the end of this calendar year and move forward from there, and we're still on a path to do that and I think both sides are signed up for that plan.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: Peter, just on that same theme in Online Services, can you give us a sense what percent of the expense is ongoing cost and what percent might be transition costs that could possibly roll off?

PETER KLEIN: The bulk of it is ongoing cost. There's a little bit of transition cost, but you should think of the bulk of it as ongoing cost.

And really the dynamics of that business as you know are it's a high fixed cost business, it's a scale business. And as we grow our revenue per search, that's a highly leveraged revenue dollar that we get that goes against that fixed cost base.

BILL KOEFOED: So clearly improving our RPS is our goal that we are laser focused on as we've talked about.

PETER KLEIN: Completely.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Peter, how should we think about repatriation of cash as you guys generate so much in some of these foreign jurisdictions?

PETER KLEIN: Well, the broader issue of just income tax policy we will leave to the experts. Obviously we are supportive of long-term enhancements to our income tax policy.

In terms of repatriation specifically, I don't think it's a big issue one way or the other for either our operations or our strategies or what we are able to do. We've obviously had a very good year both in terms of our financial results and our ability to deliver cash back to shareholders.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please?

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Could you discuss the monetization trends you may be seeing from Xbox LIVE? It seems like you have got some decent subscriber growth.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, no, it's really been fantastic. As we have grown the subscriber base, there's actually a couple of revenue streams. There's the subscription revenue stream and then there's the transactional revenue stream for people who actively engage with the service and that can buy purchases while they are engaged in that.

And that really helps to accelerate the monetization of that business and that is a really, really amazing long-term opportunity for us particularly as we continue to take share of just the whole console platform.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Ed. We'll do a call-out for Ed who's calling us from Tokyo where it must be four in the morning right now. So thanks for call in, Ed. Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen and Company.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND CO.: Thank you and very nice quarter. Peter, I just had a question on guidance.

In the past, you've talked about Windows revenue growth roughly tracking PC unit growth. We all know about the mix shift to emerging markets. But is there anything you can say to help frame how we should think about the gap between Windows revenue growth and overall PC growth in fiscal 2012?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, you know, I think I would stick with the framework that we gave, hopefully there's a lot of texture to that. And depending on what assumption one makes about the growth in emerging markets versus developed markets, and businesses versus consumers, really impacts what that growth will be. Obviously the more faster growth there is in emerging markets relative to developed is more headwind for the Windows growth relative to the overall PC market. But I think understanding what your belief is about those dynamics should help a lot with that.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, let's take one more question please.

OPERATOR: Tim Klassell, Stifel Nicolaus.

TIM KLASSELL, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Yes, good afternoon and congrats on the quarter as well. Office 365 has now been out in the market for a little while. But you have multiple bundles at very wide price points. Can you sort of point to a bundle or the bundles that appear to be the most popular right now?

PETER KLEIN: Well, it's been out for about a month, so it's really is too early to tell. But I would say that the philosophy behind the pricing is to provide the right set of choices for every customer and every segment depending on what their needs are.

And so ultimately I think we'll see a broad cross section of customers choosing different pricing plans. Whether you are a small and medium business whose never had Exchange or SharePoint or Link before, there's a really affordable option for you to jump in.

For enterprises who need much more scalability, who need premium versions, they can pay a little bit more. So as always, we really believe in understanding what the different needs are, different customer segments, and structuring our SKUs and our pricing to reflect the best options for every customer segment depending on their needs.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Tim. So that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Just a reminder that Microsoft's 2011 financial analyst meeting will be on the afternoon of September 14 in Anaheim. FAM will be held in conjunction with BUILD, our developer conference, which will kick off the morning of September 13 at the Anaheim Convention Center.

We encourage investors to attend [build] or watch the keynotes via webcast as it will offer people the opportunity to learn directly about our product strategies and roadmaps. Please contact us if you have not received an invitation as pre-registration will be required. Thanks again for joining us and have a great day. Thank you.

OPERATOR: This concludes today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110804e77l0093v
  


 HD
 Q3  2011 Microsoft Corp Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,977 words
   PD
28 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by and welcome to the third-quarter 2011 Microsoft Corporation earnings conference call.

   TD
At this time, all participants are placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded.

(Operator Instructions). Now I'd like to turn the call over to Bill Koefoed, General Manager of Investor Relations. Bill, please proceed.

BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Bobby. And thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon.

As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today we filed our Form 10-Q. In addition, we posted our earnings press release and financial summary slide deck to our investor relations website at microsoft.com/investor.

The slide deck is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks and provides the reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission and the transcript and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until April 28, 2012.

During this call, we will be making forward-looking statements. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. Okay, and with that, I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill, good afternoon, everyone. This quarter we again delivered solid financial results, reflecting strong business and consumer demand for our products and services.

Despite a mixed PC environment, the breadth and depth of our portfolio drove another quarter of double-digit revenue and earnings per share growth. On the commercial side, we saw strong multiyear licensing commitments by enterprises and robust transactional sales particularly to small and medium businesses. Let me give more color on this.

On the business desktop, customers continued to embrace our offering. Not only is Office 2010 the fastest selling version of Office in our Company's history, but businesses are purchasing our entire productivity platform including SharePoint, Exchange, Dynamics and Lync. And with the recently released public beta of Office 365, the next generation of our cloud productivity service, we are enabling new scenarios that weren't viable in the past especially for small and mid-sized businesses.

Office 365 eases deployment for our customers while lowering their upfront costs and provides significantly better returns on investment. Enterprises are investing in our business infrastructure offerings with a growing preference for our premium product.

Windows Server, SQL Server, and our management tools are enabling our customers to transform their data centers to be more efficient. Companies are reaping the benefits that Windows 7 brings including enhanced productivity, efficiency, security, and manageability.

Enterprise deployments of Windows 7 have more than doubled over the past six months. While business PC shipments showed strength this quarter, consumer PCs declined. Within both segments, emerging markets continued to be an area of strong growth.

As demonstrated by Bing's continued market share gains since its launch, we've made great strides in relevancy and design and continue to transform search beyond just queries to task completion and decision-making. While we are pleased with the progress we've made with Bing, there is significant work ahead to improve the monetization of the combined Yahoo! and Bing marketplace.

Advertisers are seeing strong ROI but revenue per search is below our expectations. We have our best search technical leadership on this issue and we're partnering closely with Yahoo! to improve monetization as quickly and efficiently as possible.

Turning to our Entertainment and Devices Division, in November we took the first step in creating a new mobile ecosystem by launching Windows Phone 7. In this quarter, we took the next step by entering into a broad strategic alliance with Nokia.

Together Nokia and Microsoft will innovate with greater speed and provide enhanced opportunities for users and partners to share in the success of the new ecosystem. Consumers are delighted with Kinect as well as our entire Xbox 360 platform for the revolutionary experience it brings to their living room. Kinect continues to lead the way forward in gaming and is opening the door for new scenarios that take advantage of natural user interface.

So in summary, the breadth and depth of our product portfolio combined with prioritization of investments and our continued focus on operating expense management allowed us to deliver another quarter of strong financial results. With that, I'm going to hand it back to Bill to provide more detail on this quarter's results and then I'll come back and provide some thoughts on our outlook for our fourth quarter and the next fiscal year.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. Revenue for the quarter was $16.4 billion, 13% growth year over year and earnings per share was $0.61, up 36%. Adjusting for tech guarantee programs, this was our fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth and our sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit EPS growth.

Operating cash flow for the third quarter was a record $8.7 billion or growth of 17%. Operating cash flow year to date has surpassed $21 billion, an increase of $2.6 billion.

Many of the demand trends in the third quarter were similar to the first half of the year. Specifically Office 2010, Xbox and Xbox Live and Kinect continue to enjoy exceptional consumer momentum.

On the commercial side, enterprise demand for our products remains strong. Businesses are deploying Microsoft platforms and applications including Windows, Windows Server, Office, Dynamics, and management tools.

The business demand is translating into healthy increases in transactional licensing and strong enterprise agreement renewals. Our unearned revenue balance grew 6% to $13 billion, reflecting continued strength in our customers' multiyear commitments. Our contracted not billed balance is now over $17 billion, growing approximately 20%. Bookings for the Company were up 8%.

Now let me turn to the PC market. There are three trends we are observing.

First, business PC growth was 9% this quarter. The business PC refresh cycle continues and is still in the early stages.

Second, emerging markets continues to play a larger role in total PC shipment volume and now represent nearly half of all worldwide PC shipments. Finally, the consumer PC market declined 8% as there are several dynamics at work including a 40% decline in netbooks, broader consumer macroeconomics, increased competition for consumer spending and the strength of Windows 7 consumer PCs in the prior year.

In total, we estimate the PC market declined 1 to 3% in the third quarter. With that PC backdrop, I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live Division.

Last quarter we noted there would be a $100 million headwind to Windows comparables for the third quarter due to the prior year Windows 7 launch. Adjusting for this dynamic, Windows revenue was in line with the PC market as we guided.

As usual, you'll find an OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck. To summarize, the PC industry dynamics of continuing strength from emerging markets offset the benefits of a higher business mix and improved attach.

Since the launch of Windows 7, customer satisfaction and market reception have been terrific and we have more opportunities ahead. While Windows 7 has now sold over 350 million units since launch, an estimated 75% of the PC installed base is still running older operating systems.

The number of PCs running Windows 7 in the enterprise has more than doubled over the past six months and volume licensing has strengthened. As I mentioned earlier, we expect the business PC refresh cycle to continue.

Looking ahead, we're excited about the partner innovation underway in the PC market with Windows 7. There is innovation occurring in new ultra-portables, all-in-one and other form factors including slates and convertibles which are starting to hit the market now.

This quarter we also released Windows Intune, a cloud-based subscription service that will help businesses manage and secure Windows PCs. Windows Intune provides significant new opportunities for Microsoft and our partners to further expand our reach, grow our revenue and delight customers. With Windows Intune, we have an opportunity to bring even more customers to the cloud.

During the quarter, we launched the latest version of Internet Explorer. Internet Explorer 9 utilizes the power and performance of the whole PC to provide users with a faster, more immersive Web experience.

With new features such as hardware accelerated graphics, support for HTML 5, and integrated Windows 7 navigation, websites act more like applications on IE 9. And just a few weeks after releasing IE 9, we released the platform preview of IE 10 which will deliver innovation for the next generation of Web experiences powered by Windows.

Now I'll move to the Microsoft Business Division which excluding the prior year office tech guarantee deferral grew 13%. We continue to see terrific response to the release from both consumers and businesses.

Adjusted for the prior-year deferral, consumer revenue grew 26% with increased office attach to PCs. The business transactional portion grew 28%, also driven by improved attach rates, post-launch and higher business PC shipments.

The multiyear licensing portion of the business grew 5%. Businesses are deploying Office 2010 along with Windows 7 on the corporate desktop.

Office 2010 deployment rate is five times faster than the deployment of Office 2007. Importantly, businesses are also attaching the Office Server applications; SharePoint, Exchange and Lync which all grew double digits this quarter.

Lync grew 30% and we are seeing tremendous reception to the product. As we've discussed previously, unified communications is a huge growth opportunity and Lync offers an immediate return on investments to CIOs.

Last Monday we released the public beta of Office 365 and we continue to see momentum in business online services. The number of customers using our services has quadrupled since last year.

Over 50% of our customers are small businesses but we're also seeing large enterprises, governmental and educational institutions moving to the cloud. This quarter, we announced large customer wins including Shell Oil, Tampa General Hospital, Advocate Health Care and Manpower among others.

Our Dynamics business grew 10% with both Dynamics ERP and Dynamics CRM increasing account penetration. In the third quarter, we launched Dynamics CRM 2011 and we're seeing great traction with 40,000 businesses already in product trial, a significant pipeline to our current 27,000 customer base.

We also recently announced the next release of Dynamics ERP will be cloud enabled. We are delivering world-class business applications on premise and in the cloud that are simple, agile and deliver more value than competitive offerings.

Now let's turn to Server and Tools which posted 11% revenue growth. Server and Tools had strong performance across the entire product portfolio.

Transactional revenue grew faster than the underlying server hardware market which we estimate grew mid-single digits. Multiyear license revenue grew 11% and enterprise services revenue grew 12%.

In the data center we continued to increase the penetration and monetization of Windows Server and System Center. We saw strong enterprise agreement renewals of Windows Server this quarter and premium revenue was up double digits. System Center, our management offering, grew double digits for the 10th consecutive quarter.

Hyper-V continues to win new business and establish new performance benchmarks on key workloads. This quarter we showcased a large customer win with Target Corporation.

Target is running business critical workloads for all 1700 retail stores using Microsoft virtualization and management technologies. In the database, SQL Server unit volumes and ASPs were up with a shift toward our premium editions.

SQL premium revenue has now grown double digits for four consecutive quarters as customers adopt higher-level capabilities such as business intelligence. Our cloud computing platform, Windows Azure, continues to have strong momentum and developer interest.

This quarter we a announced strategic partnership with Toyota who will be using Windows Azure for its enterprise-grade scalable platform to provide advanced telematics services. Next I'll move to the Online Services Division which grew 14%.

Online advertising revenue including both search and display grew 17%. Bing's US market share continued to grow, ending the quarter at 13.9%, up 190 basis points from the second quarter and up almost 600 basis points since launch.

We feel great about the pace of our innovation and customer satisfaction with our differentiated approach to search. However, the expected monetization of the combined Yahoo! and Bing search marketplace in the US and Canada is taking longer than planned and revenue per share remains below our expectations.

We have delayed our international integration efforts to focus on improvements in the US and Canada. Now let me move to the Entertainment and Devices Division where revenue grew an impressive 60%.

Xbox has been setting the pace in the gaming industry this fiscal year. With Kinect recognized as the fastest selling consumer electronics product ever, we sold an additional 2.4 million sensors this post holiday quarter. We also shipped 2.7 million Xbox 360 consoles, a new third-quarter record that surpasses the previous high by 1 million units.

Xbox Live also continues to increase its contribution to our customer experience and E&D's financial performance. We again saw healthy increases in transactional revenue which continues to exceed subscription revenues.

Turning to Windows Phone. Product reviews are good, customer satisfaction is high, well above 90%, and we have shown a clear strategy for enabling a vibrant ecosystem around Windows Phone.

This quarter we took the next step and entered into a broad strategic alliance with Nokia. While we have enjoyed strong developer support to date with more than 13,000 applications, we've noted even greater developer interest subsequent to the Nokia alliance announcement.

Now let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 41% this quarter due to three primary factors.

One, volume driven costs are up due to the success of Xbox 360 consoles and Kinect sensors. Third-party content royalties are also up reflecting strong sales on Xbox Live.

Two, as I mentioned in the Server and Tools performance, our Enterprise Services business is growing rapidly. Costs in this business are largely volume driven. And three, Online Services costs are up from increased traffic acquisition costs and increased costs related to the Yahoo! alliance.

Operating expenses were $6.8 billion, an increase of 4%. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was below our guidance due primarily to the $461 million one-time benefit related to an agreement with the Internal Revenue Service to settle a portion of their audit of tax years 2004 to 2006.

In the third quarter we repurchased $827 million of stock and declared $1.3 billion of dividends. Year to date we returned $13.9 billion of cash to shareholders through buybacks and dividends, 33% more than the previous year.

In summary, it was a very solid quarter with strong financial results. And with that, I'll hand it back to Peter who's going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the fourth quarter and some high-level themes as we begin to think about fiscal 2012.

From a macro perspective, we expect the next quarter will be similar to the third quarter. Within the PC market, we expect growth in emerging markets to outpace developed markets and growth in business PCs to outpace consumer PCs. As a result, we expect Windows Division revenue to grow roughly in line with the PC market for the fourth quarter.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division, transactional revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total, will continue to exceed PC shipment growth rates but at a moderating rate as we approach the Office 2010 launch anniversary. Revenue associated with multiyear licensing agreements representing approximately 60% of the division's total should grow mid to high single digits.

Turning to Server and Tools, approximately 30% of the division's revenue comes from transactional licensing, 50% from multiyear licensing and 20% from enterprise services. Within this division, we expect transactional revenue to generally track with the hardware market and multiyear licensing revenue and enterprise services revenue to both grow low double digits.

Within OSD, we expect online advertising revenue to perform roughly in line with the overall online advertising market. Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division, considering the enthusiastic response to the Xbox 360 platform, we now suspect this division's revenue to grow roughly 25% for the fourth quarter.

Switching to cost of goods sold, as was the case this quarter, the biggest factor impacting COGS going forward will be the growth of Entertainment and Devices, Enterprise Services and integration and traffic acquisition costs associated with our search business.

Turning to operating expenses, we are reconfirming our guidance of $26.9 billion to $27.3 billion for fiscal year 2011. We expect our effective tax rate to be 22 to 23% for the fourth quarter and we continue to expect capital expenditures for the full fiscal year to be about $2.5 billion. Unearned revenue will follow historical sequential growth patterns.

Now I'd like to spend a few minutes looking ahead to our next fiscal year. From a macro perspective, we expect the business PC refresh cycle to continue through fiscal 2012.

The PC market dynamics I discussed for Q4, emerging markets outpacing developed markets and business outpacing consumer, should also continue through the next fiscal year. While we expect ongoing healthy demand for Office 2010, we expect more difficult year-over-year comparables for the Microsoft Business Division.

For Server and Tools, we expect to continue to outpace the server market due to our premium offerings and product portfolio. Within our search business, we expect to see revenue per search improvements over the course of the calendar year.

Lastly, we expect momentum within our Entertainment and Devices Division to continue. Moving on to cost of goods sold as was the case in fiscal 2011, the most important factor to consider will be the shift of revenue mix across hardware, software, enterprise services and online services.

We expect fiscal year 2012 operating expenses to grow 3 to 5% from the midpoint of our fiscal 2011 guidance as we continue to prioritize our spending to manage our expenses. Based on this growth range, we expect fiscal 2012 operating expenses to be $28.0 billion to $28.6 billion. We expect capital expenditures to be about $2.5 billion for fiscal year 2012.

In summary, I'm pleased with our healthy financial results for the quarter. As we look forward into the next fiscal year, our robust product portfolio and ongoing focus on cost management will enable us to continue to deliver shareholder value. And with that, I'll turn the call over to Bill and we will take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Bobby, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Terrific, thank you. My question is on expenses.

In the quarter, the gross margin was a little bit lower than I had modeled. I was wondering if you could go through the puts and takes of what hit gross margin this quarter.

And then looking into fiscal 12 in general, would you expect revenue to outpace your operating expense growth? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: On gross margins it's really the three things that Bill described. Sort of the biggest thing is the fantastic growth in the Xbox business. So that was the single biggest driver of COGS growth in the quarter.

Secondly, Enterprise Services which is volume driven, and they are having nice growth. So that shows up in COGS. And then finally in Online Services, some costs associated with the Yahoo! alliance, as you know some of that revenue that we get from that alliance from the Yahoo! properties gets tacked out in COGS and some other traffic acquisition costs. Those were the three big drivers of the COGS growth, all volume driven.

BILL KOEFOED: With respect to the second part of your question, Adam, as you know we don't give specific revenue guidance. We give you operating expense guidance and you can model it from there. Operator, next question?

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Could you help us understand just on the COGS I guess following onto Adam's question here, as we look into next year with some of the integration costs around Yahoo! and I guess I'm also wondering around kind of mix within EDD how much we should expect, sort of what we have seen over the course of this year be indicative of where gross margins are in the future or do we think we are on sort of a new kind of trajectory in those individual businesses?

PETER KLEIN: Well it depends what you model in for the volume, so these COGS are volume driven. So depending on how you think about each of those individual businesses really is the driver of COGS.

We try to give that framework so it's easier to understand that. Certainly on the Online Services business, our key focus that COGS are volume driven, most important thing there is to get that revenue per search up because that really has the biggest impact on the gross margin.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, ISI Group.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, thank you very much, guys. Peter, I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about buybacks.

I know that Bill said the return of capital to shareholders was up one--third versus last year. Just wondering if you could talk about the level of buybacks and kind of how we should think about your appetite for buybacks going forward.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, no, I think we have a pretty consistent track record over the last several years in terms of distributing cash back to shareholders in terms of dividends and buyback. And so those numbers that Bill cited were sort of indicative of that. We've had a pretty consistent track record on that and that has been our philosophy.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, could you just reconcile on the PC market, Intel and AMD are saying one thing, you are saying it is worse. And just trying to understand, is this because of piracy or lower ASPs? What's accounting for that? And what is your view in terms of the snapback for the PC market in the second half of the year?

PETER KLEIN: There's some unique things going on with Intel's results that you can sort of reconcile back to what we're saying that make a lot of sense. First, if you sort of reconcile their revenue growth, certainly they have an ASP uplift which is actually the single biggest part of driving the growth.

There's a few other things in terms of an extra week in the quarter, they've also excluded netbooks from PC MPU numbers. And I think there was some appropriate inventory buildup.

So if you look at our numbers, it ties pretty closely from a unit perspective to what they are seeing. And obviously we are in line with big third-party analysts as well.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just looking for a little bit more color on that Microsoft Business Division side. Obviously we're coming on the -- sort of the tail end theoretically of the uplift of Office 2010.

Obviously you're talking about tougher comps. But what is sort of the right long-term growth rate for that business over the next couple of years?

And then also just in terms of G&A, we saw a big step-up quarter to quarter this quarter. Was there anything one-time in there like you guys had in the December and March quarters of fiscal 2010?

PETER KLEIN: So obviously we're not guiding to specific growth rates for MBD but I would highlight a few things. Obviously we're incredibly excited about the customer reaction to Office 2010.

But even beyond that, you heard us talk about how customers are adopting the whole sort of suite of products not just the Office applications but SharePoint, Exchange, Dynamics, and Lync and that really provides long-term sustainable growth for the MBD business all up even in a year that's sort of not a launch your year. So that's I think a way to think about what's going on in MBD.

In addition to that, we've got Office 365, so over the course of the next coming years. We've had great growth, as we talked about, quadrupled the number of business online services customers we have. With the introduction of Office 365, we sort of take that to the next level. So as you think about the next year or two for the MBD business, those are some of the factors that I think really drive their growth.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC PARTNERS: Yes, can you just talk to the new leadership in Servers, what Satya brings to the group?

PETER KLEIN: Satya is just a wonderful business leader. He comes from a background of both business applications and cloud services.

So he's really the ideal guy to take that business to the next level. I've personally had an opportunity to work with Satya closely in the past and he's a great leader.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: So, Peter, there's been a lot of confusion or a lot of talk around the Nokia partnership, what the economics are. Could you maybe help straighten out the record on that?

And probably more importantly give us any sense if there's going to be an impact to 2012 COGS as it relates to this deal?

PETER KLEIN: I will talk about the Nokia -- the great thing about the Nokia deal is this is an incredibly perfect opportunity for both of us to build a really compelling vibrant third ecosystem if you think about the complementary set of assets that we all bring to it. And in terms of the hardware design, the hardware manufacturing, the global relationships with operators, certainly with our platform has great developer momentum in the kinds of services of Xbox Live and Office.

Clearly this is a broad strategic alliance, a long-term strategic alliance and we're going to be working closely together and we are each making investments together along those lines. And I think the important thing to think about is as we sort of build that out and its success, it's going to be a great thing for both companies and for customers and for other partners in the ecosystem.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thanks for taking my question. Just quickly, can you talk about the delay that you're doing internationally and how long you think that will take before you can get it up and running? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: We're going to work on North America, the US and Canada, and once we feel like we've gotten that straightened out, we will move on to the other international markets.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Greg Moskowitz, Cowen and Company.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN & CO.: Peter, you're tracking to lose a few more cents in the Online Division in fiscal 2011 versus fiscal 2010. Obviously, RPS improvements going forward would help but you'll also be rolling out the integrated platform to additional markets. So wondering if you could perhaps offer anything else about the EPS prospects for OSD next year relative to fiscal 2011.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, well certainly we're not going to give specific outlook more than what we have given, but you have hit on the key issue which is the revenue per search. We've been clear on the opportunity and the strategy there is to continue to grow share and to increase our revenue per search.

So obviously we're laser focused right now on getting that revenue per search up and that has high leverage into sort of margins for the Company going forward.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Caris & Co.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, CARIS & CO.: Peter, can you provide us any color in terms of how your new architecture effort for -- on tablet size progressing in terms of system-on-a-chip? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: No, I've get nothing else to talk about that other than what we have already said.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: You discussed healthy activity in multi-year commitments. Could you address how you and your customers are mixing business online services and looking at Office 365, how ultimately that may affect your model in terms of COGS?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, no, it's a great question. Actually one of the interesting things about business online services and the pending Office 365 is it's enabling really great conversations and actually it's been a driver of the increase in multi-year licensing commitments because people have a lot of questions about the cloud and the transition to the cloud. Having a clear story, having a partner that can help them transition and the pace that they want to has actually been a driver of the conversations we're having with enterprise.

In going forward, the economics of that are it's an increased revenue and total profit opportunity for us. The subscription services do have a higher COG and so a lower gross margin in terms of percentage. But over time, that is a growth in absolute margin dollars for us.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: When I look at this quarter, you've already gotten past the four quarters of product cycle, helped revenue growth. It looks like this quarter if I make adjustments for Office, you are still looking at high single digit, 8, 10% type growth rate against normal comparisons.

Any reasons to think that if IT spending and economy continued to stay the way they are, do you think that this growth rate should in fact decelerate as you go into fiscal 12? Or if you can argue the other side, that it should stay at -- this growth rate is sustainable, both sides of the market argument? Appreciate it, thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Without giving sort of specific guidance or growth rates, I will say we feel great about how enterprises are investing in IT and in particular, how they are very interested in our product suite. I think we've got a very broad compelling set of products for the enterprise.

If you look at any number of CIO surveys, most of them say a high priority focus area for CIOs is our suite of products. So directionally I would say we feel great about sort of the IT market and certainly our position in that in our product set.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, we're going to take one final question.

OPERATOR: Tim Klasell, Stifel Nicolaus.

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Maybe you can just give us your thoughts about the timing of a launch of the next-generation Xbox console and if a decision hasn't been made, do you guys internally have a time point of when you think you have to make that decision?

PETER KLEIN: No, we're really not talking about that. Right now we're incredibly excited about what's going on with the Xbox 360 console and certainly Kinect which is relatively new in market. So we're very focused on that.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, so that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. A few weeks ago, we announced our plans for Microsoft 2011 financial analyst meeting which will be on the afternoon of September 14, 2011 in Anaheim, California.

FAM will be held in conjunction with our developer conference which will kick off on September 13 at the Anaheim Convention Center. This year's FAM will feature presentations by key executives about the Company's strategic direction and will supplement the developer conference presentations which offer people the opportunity to learn directly about our product strategies and roadmap.

In the meantime, we look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous conferences in which we will be participating in this quarter. For those of you unable to attend any of our events in person, you will always be able to follow our comments at microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details. Thank you again and have a great day.

OPERATOR: Thank you for everyone's participation. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c184 : Joint Ventures | c22 : New Products/Services | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110512e74s00bqc
  


 HD
 Q2  2011 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,582 words
   PD
27 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on a listen-only mode until the question-and-answer portion. (Operator Instructions). This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect now.

I would like to turn the call over to your host, Bill Koefoed, General Manager, Investor Relations. You may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Holly, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today, we filed our Form 10-Q. In addition, we posted our earnings release and financial summary slide deck to our Investor Relations website at microsoft.com\investor. The slide deck is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. As a reminder, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's call is being webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until January 27, 2012.

This conference call is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this call or any portion of it without the express written permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

During this call, we will be making statements that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Okay? And with that, I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill. Good afternoon, everyone. I'm extremely pleased with our performance this quarter. We delivered excellent topline and bottom-line results. Business and consumer response to our latest wave of innovation, including Office 2010 and Kinect, help drive yet another quarter of healthy revenue growth, resulting in revenue of nearly $20 billion.

Our solid revenue performance, combined with cost controls and continued prioritization of investments into the highest growth opportunities, enabled us to deliver record earnings per share and our sixth consecutive quarter of operating margin expansion.

On our last earnings call, I commented that we were looking forward to an exciting holiday quarter, especially from consumers. Kinect, in particular, exceeded our expectations. The controller-free entertainment experience is revolutionizing the living room. Kinect is the fastest-selling consumer electronics device in history. We couldn't be more proud of what the team has accomplished. But importantly, it's just our first step in delivering on the opportunity to fundamentally change the way people interact with technology.

The Microsoft Business Division also had a terrific quarter. Office 2010 is the most successful consumer version we have ever shipped, and the product is also performing extremely well in the Business segment. Companies are purchasing Office 2010 as well as our entire Productivity platform, including SharePoint, Exchange, and Lync. Businesses are also deploying Windows 7. According to IDC, nearly 90% of enterprise companies worldwide have already started their formal migrations to Windows 7.

In addition to healthy enterprise deployment of our business desktop products, we saw strong momentum for our business infrastructure offerings. Windows Server and SQL server premium revenues grew double digits, and this quarter marks the one-year anniversary of Windows Server 2008 R2. Since its launch, we have grown our share of the overall server market every quarter.

During the quarter, we continued our product launch momentum. In November, we delivered Microsoft Lync 2010, the next generation communications platforms that incorporates instant messaging, presence, audio, video, Web conferencing, and voice into one interface that integrates with the application businesses are already using today, including Microsoft Office, SharePoint, and Exchange.

For the consumer, I already mentioned Kinect. Also during the quarter, we launched Windows Phone 7, which is now on nine devices with 60 operators in 30 markets. We've said all along that our first priority was to make a phone people love. And to that end, we're pleased with the initial response. Customer satisfaction data indicates 93% customers worldwide are happy with the product and we're also seeing strong developer engagement. While we are encouraged by the early progress, we realize we still have a lot of work ahead of us, and we remain focused and committed to the long-term success of Windows Phone 7.

We continue to deliver sustained innovation and releases for Bing. In addition to transitioning Yahoo's paid search in the US and Canada during the quarter, we also entered into a strategic partnership with Facebook. Bing now provides much more personalized experiences by allowing users to bring their Facebook friends into their search experiences.

So, in summary, a record performance for this quarter rounded out a very successful calendar year for Microsoft. We delivered strong financial results and invigorated the market with our product innovations.

With that, I'll hand it back to Bill to provide more details on the quarter's results.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. I'll start today by noting that all of my comments are adjusted for the $1.7 billion of deferred revenue, which was recognized in the second quarter of last year. The deferral was related to the Windows 7 upgrade program and Windows 7 licenses sold in advance of general availability. We've reconciled the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP results in our earnings slide deck. All growth comparisons I make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless I specify otherwise.

Okay. Now to our results.

This quarter's performance continued the momentum we've seen over the past year. Total revenue for the Company was up 15% to nearly $20 billion. Operating income grew 20% and earnings per share grew 28%. Bookings grew 21%, which marks the fourth consecutive quarter of strong double-digit bookings growth. We continue to see strong momentum with Windows 7. As Peter mentioned, nearly 90% of enterprise companies worldwide have started their formal migrations to Windows 7, and many have already recognized material savings as a result.

Office 2010 is the fastest-selling consumer version of Office in history, with license sales over 50% ahead of Office 2007 for the equivalent period following launch. Office clearly remains the most popular productivity platform for both home and work.

We've experienced an incredible consumer response to our latest product. Kinect, in particular, was the hottest gift this holiday season, and has been mentioned by a number of publications as the most innovative product of 2010.

Businesses of all sizes continue to commit to Microsoft's platforms. This quarter, we saw a better-than-expected increase in transactional licensing and enterprise agreements renewed in the historical range. Our unearned revenue balance grew 7% year-over-year to $13.4 billion. On a sequential basis, after adjusting for the $224 million of Office tech guarantee recognition, our unearned revenue balance declined to $278 million. Our contracted not-billed balance grew to over $16.5 billion, a $700 million increase from the prior quarter. This growth in our customers' multiyear commitments, combined with our strong transactional sales, resulted in a solid 21% growth in year-over-year bookings. Geographically, emerging markets continued to outperform mature markets.

Now turning to the PC market, we estimate close to 90 million PCs were sold globally, the biggest quarter ever, representing growth of 2% to 4%. Business PCs grew faster than consumer PCs, as companies continued to refresh hardware and adopt Windows 7. Within consumer PCs, netbooks declined from their peak last year, while notebook growth remained healthy.

With that PC backdrop, I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows LIVE divisions.

Last quarter, we noted that there would be a $600 million headwind to Windows comparables for the second quarter, due to the Windows 7 launch spike last year. Adjusting for this dynamic and the prior-year tech guarantee recognition, Windows and Windows LIVE revenue growth was in line with the PC market.

As usual, you'll find an OEM revenue bridge in our earnings slide deck. The revenue per license benefit from a higher business mix was offset by emerging markets growing faster than developed markets. This quarter marks the one-year anniversary of Windows 7. Today, we are announcing that we have sold over 300 million Windows 7 licenses to date, continuing its momentum as the fastest-selling operating system in history.

Looking ahead, we are excited about the partner innovation underway in the PC and Windows 7 ecosystem, as seen at CES. The PC hardware dynamics are incredibly strong with innovation and new ultra-portables, all-in-one's, and other form factors, including tablets, slates and convertibles. The new Intel Sandy Bridge and AMD Fusion chip architectures substantially improve performance, graphics, and battery life.

In addition, we announced at CES that the next version of Windows will support system-on-a-chip architectures, including ARM-based systems from partners NVIDIA, Qualcomm, and Texas Instruments, and x86-based systems from partners Intel and AMD. Windows on system-on-a-chip architectures will fuel significant innovation across a spectrum of devices. We are enthusiastic about the future of device innovation and the role Windows is playing.

Now let's move to server and tools, which posted 10% revenue growth. Non-annuity revenue grew roughly in line with the underlying server hardware market, which we estimate grew high single digits. Multi-year license revenue growth was roughly 11% and enterprise services revenue grew 9%. In the data center, we continue to be pleased with our progress in virtualization and systems management. The virtualization trend is driving double-digit systems center and Windows Server premium revenue growth, while significantly lowering our customers' costs.

In the database, premium offerings are also a core focus of our strategy, and this quarter, we saw double-digit growth in SQL server premium revenue.

Among other customer wins this quarter, Dollar Thrifty Auto Group migrated their mission-critical pricing systems from Oracle to a Microsoft data management solution, a strategic move that supports the company's goal to standardize on high-value, cost-effective technologies. We are excited about SQL Server and our opportunity to drive Tier 1 customer wins.

In the cloud, we continue to see developer interest in application development on the Windows Azure platform. Earlier in the quarter, at PDC, we unveiled a number of additional platform enhancements and showed how leading companies, like Pixar Animation Studios and ADP with Invoice Pay, were able to develop innovative solutions with Azure.

Next, I'll move to the Online Services division, which grew 19%. Online advertising revenue, including both search and display, grew 23% and now includes revenue driven by our search partnership with Yahoo, which was implemented in the US and Canada during the quarter. We continue to make progress on the partnership, and earlier this month, we transitioned algorithmic search traffic in Mexico, Brazil, and Australia. Bing's US market share continued to grow, ending the quarter at 12%, and our search revenue growth rate, again, outperformed the market leader.

During the quarter, we announced a significant expansion of our partnership with Facebook, where Bing will provide more personalized experiences by allowing users to search Facebook profiles and incorporate their friends' likes into search results. We believe the addition of these new social features is another way to deliver innovation and valuable enhancements to the Bing experience.

Next, I'll move to the Microsoft Business Division, which continues to show solid launch momentum, with revenue growing 24%. This includes $224 million of recognized revenue pertaining to the Office Tech Guarantee. We've seen enthusiastic consumer response to Office 2010, and business demand has also been strong with the transactional components of MBD sales up over 40%. The multi-year licensing portion of the business grew 9%. CIOs are investing in the new productivity scenarios enabled by SharePoint, Exchange, Lync, and Dynamics CRM, which are enhanced when deployed with Office 2010. Lync grew over 20% this quarter, while SharePoint 2010 and Dynamics CRM both continued to grow double digits.

This quarter, we reported a number of cloud productivity wins, including the State University of New York, the US Department of Agriculture, DuPont, and the State of California, among others. We have seen an immediate customer and partner response to the Office 365 announcement, with the beta oversubscribed within its first day.

Just two weeks ago, we launched Dynamics CRM online in 40 markets. We're already seeing customers switching from salesforce.com to Dynamics CRM online -- it saves money, it's more flexible, and it's easy to use with familiar Microsoft Office experience for increased productivity.

Let's move on to the Entertainment and Devices Division, where revenue grew 55% and operating income has now surpassed $1 billion year-to-date, which is a major milestone for this decision. Kinect exceeded all expectations, with 8 million stand-alone and bundled sensors sold in just 60 days. And since we updated the consoles last June, Xbox 360 has had tremendous momentum. We sold a record 6.3 million consoles this quarter, a unit increase of 21%. This helped drive Xbox LIVE membership up 30% to 30 million active members.

In addition, at CES, we announced a number of upcoming feature enhancements, including Kinect support for Netflix, Hulu Plus, and Avatar Kinect, which will advance how people communicate and enjoy their television experiences.

Windows Phone 7 is off to a solid start, as handset manufacturers purchased over 2 million licenses in the quarter. Windows Phone 7 is making progress in these early days, as user satisfaction is extremely high and developer momentum has continued to build to now over 24,000 registered developers. As we announced at CES, we are looking forward to adding more features, including support for CDMA.

Now let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 33% to $4.8 billion, driven primarily by increased Xbox hardware volume and online costs. Operating expenses were $7 billion in the quarter, an increase of 1%. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 22%, below our guidance of 23% to 24%, due primarily to the one-time benefit of the retroactive extension of the R&D tax credit from January 1, 2010.

In the second quarter, we repurchased $5 billion of shares and declared $1.3 billion of dividends, continuing to deliver on our commitment to return cash to shareholders.

In summary, it was a strong quarter, both for our product momentum as well as for our financial results. And with that, I'll hand it back to Peter, who's going to discuss our business outlook for the remainder of this fiscal year.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the third quarter and remainder of fiscal 2011.

According to various surveys, enterprise IT spend is forecast to grow in 2011, and Windows 7 and Office 2010 remain among the highest priorities for CIOs. We remain confident in our ability to continue to grow our share of the IT spending market. We expect the business PC refresh cycle to continue. In terms of PC growth, we expect business to outpace consumer and emerging markets to outpace developed markets. With that backdrop, let me turn to segment expectations.

Windows division revenue should grow roughly in line with the PC market for the third quarter and the full year, when excluding the revenue attributable to the prior-year launch spike and tech guarantee. As we said previously, when looking at year-over-year growth, you should exclude $100 million from Q3 of fiscal 2010 for the launch spike. And for full fiscal year 2010, you should exclude $700 million of revenue for the launch and $300 million for the tech guarantee.

Moving on to server and tools. From Q3 and the full year, we expect non-annuity revenue, approximately 30% of the total, to generally track with the hardware market. Multi-year licensing revenue, which is about 50% of the total, and Enterprise Services, the remaining 20%, should grow high single digits for the third quarter and low double digits for the full fiscal year.

Turning to expectations for the Microsoft Business Division, consumer and business non-annuity revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total revenue, will continue to exceed PC shipment growth rates for the third quarter and the fiscal year, due to the Office 2010 launch. We expect revenue associated with multi-year agreements, representing approximately 60% of total revenue, to grow mid- to high-single digits for the third quarter and the fiscal year. When updating your models, remember that in Q3 of fiscal 2010, we deferred approximately $300 million related to the Office Tech Guarantee.

Moving on to our Online Services Division. While we feel great about the progress we have made with the partnership, we recognize that there has been some marketplace disruption. We are working diligently to address any issues, and we expect the benefits of the integration to occur gradually over the next several quarters. We expect online advertising revenue, including organic revenue and new revenue associated with our Yahoo partnership, to outperform the overall online advertising market in Q3 and for the full fiscal year.

When updating your models, keep in mind that roughly 75% of Yahoo-related revenue will be recognized net of traffic acquisition costs.

Moving on to the Entertainment and Devices Division -- considering the enthusiastic response to the Xbox 360 platform, including the Kinect sensor, we now expect this division's revenue to grow roughly 50% for the third quarter and roughly 40% for the full fiscal year.

Switching to cost of goods sold -- as was the case this quarter, the biggest factor impacting COGS going forward will be the growth of the Entertainment and Devices Division. Xbox consoles and Kinect sensors have higher COGS than the rest of our products; and due to our growth expectations for these products, we remind you to consider this impact in your models.

Turning to operating expenses, we are reconfirming our guidance of $26.9 billion to $27.3 billion for the full fiscal year. We continue to expect capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 to be about $2.5 billion and our effective tax rate to be 23% to 24% for the third quarter and the remainder of the fiscal year. Finally, at the end of the third quarter, we expect unearned revenue to roughly follow historic seasonal patterns.

In summary, we are extremely pleased with the strong financial performance and continued product innovation we delivered this quarter. Heading into calendar year 2011, our product portfolio has never been stronger; and this, combined with our continued prioritization of investments into the highest growth opportunities, will help us drive long-term revenue and earnings per share growth.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill and we'll take some questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Great. We want to get to questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to just one question and avoid long or multi-part questions.

Holly, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you and congrats on a real nice quarter. My question is about the corporate upgrade cycle and the impacts on where you are on Windows 7. Would you expect to see the business premium mix increase from the 30% level as you get a little bit deeper into the cycle? And can you update us on where you think you are in terms of any improvements around software assurance attach? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. In general, we're -- as we talked about seeing the business refresh and the sort of intent to deploy that enterprises have, obviously, to the extent there's strength in the business PC market, that would be helpful for the mix that you indicated. So, given our outlook that that will continue to outpace consumer market, that's a good thing.

To your point on SA, if you think about the commercial side of the business or the volume licensing part of the business, that has been strong, reflecting those numbers that we talked about. So, that has sort of a -- as we've talked about, that's a relatively smaller portion than the OEM portion, but it's having a favorable impact on the overall growth of the division.

BILL KOEFOED: Great. Holly, can you go to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Bill, or just Peter, wondering if you can talk about -- in MBD, you saw really strong transactional business, I think [up] 40% or so, and I think you sort of told us to expect that to grow more in line with PCs. And just wondering if you saw any of the business that maybe would have been annuity in nature that showed up in the quarter in transactional and that explained part of that strength?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Walter. no, not really. We're seeing strength both in the annuity side and in the transactional side, so it's really incremental, which led to their high growth.

It's probably helpful to frame that so you can understand the complete picture. We talked a little bit about the strong growth in contracted/not-billed, which is really the funnel where that multi-year licensing revenue really comes into Microsoft. And ultimately, that will flow through to the balance sheet and the income statement. So we saw strong contracted/not-billed, a lot of that was Office and, obviously, server and tools. And so what we're seeing is strong contracted/not-billed, strong transactional, which led to the bookings growth that Bill talked about.

So really what we're seeing is better-than-expected uptake, particularly in small and midsize companies who typically buy transactional licenses; not enterprises who typically buy the multi-year agreements. So it really is increased strength in Office business.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Great. Thanks a lot.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks. Operator, can you go to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, ISI Group.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: I just had a follow-up to Walter's questions about the strength in MBD. I mean, you made the comment that non-annuity revenue will exceed PC growth. And obviously you did a phenomenal job of that this quarter. But this is a much wider gap than what we've seen in the past. So I guess what I'm trying to ask is -- do you expect the gap that you've normally have been outpacing PC shipments to kind of -- the gap to widen, similar to what we saw this quarter, versus what historicals might tell us?

PETER KLEIN: Well, the only thing I could say, Heather, is the outlook that we gave is the outlook that we gave. We've continued to be certainly very pleased with the customer response to Office 2010. We thought we had a great product coming into the cycle and that's proving to be true from the customer response -- not only for the suite of applications themselves, but how they integrate with SharePoint and Exchange and Lync.

So, I would just lead you to the outlook that we gave. And we remain incredibly pleased with the customer reaction to the product.

BILL KOEFOED: Holly, can you move to the next question, please?

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, just on the multi-year licensing pickup that you're seeing, can you just give us a typical term length, in terms of what those contracts are renewing at? And the contracts that are coming back, are they now renewing above the original contract value? Is that a trend that you're seeing as things are improving?

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Brent. They're typically three-year contracts. They sort of vary in length but that's the most common length of our multi-year agreements. In many cases, we are adding new products and services to our multi-year agreements. We talked about some of the products that are showing growth that are some of the newer enterprise products, like Lync, like SQL Server Premium Editions. And we're starting to get those migrations from Oracle, Tier 1 applications over to SQL. So as we continue to do those things and people invest in our platform, I think you'll see some opportunity there.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a question on the Windows division. Obviously, PC shipments globally slipped pretty significantly this quarter. Just looking at your KPI's, Windows license shipments were actually down 5% year-over-year. Just wondering if you'd give us a sense of how much you think -- since, obviously, the PC data is on cell and this relates to sort of the launch of Oak Trail, Sandy Bridge and so forth -- in Q1, affecting, call it inventory levels both in sort of the channel but also Windows license inventories inside of OEMs. And how that should maybe change when you think about the calendar Q1.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. Looking at the OEM license growth, keep in mind there was a spike from the launch last year in Q2, which makes that -- exacerbates that issue, as people bulked up and there was some inventory there. But in general, I wouldn't characterize what we saw in this fiscal quarter as having anything to do with Q1 and some of the new chipsets. I think we saw some macro things on the consumer side, but business remains very strong. And I don't think that played a big part in it.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes, I would say we just see the opportunity for Sandy Bridge and Fusion as an opportunity for businesses to improve their refresh outlook, as you start to get into 2011. I'd say we're super bullish on the chipsets from both those manufacturers.

Next question please, Operator.

OPERATOR: Katherine Egbert, Jefferies.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Just -- you always say that the emerging PC market is growing faster than the mature market. Can you give us some color on that?

And then also talk about PC pricing, especially in consumer. And then, finally, any comment on tablets and cannibalization. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Sure. Emerging markets are growing faster than developed market -- probably 2x is not a bad ballpark for how to think through that. Obviously, China plays a big part in that. And that's an important issue to think through and it's certainly an opportunity for us going forward.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Pricing.

PETER KLEIN: Pricing on --?

BILL KOEFOED: Emerging markets versus developed market.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. We've always said that there's about half of what you'd see in developed markets.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Okay. But there's been some reports that pricing has bottomed. Have you seen that?

BILL KOEFOED: We really haven't changed our prices much at all.

PETER KLEIN: Yes.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Okay. And then, finally, just tablets and cannibalization.

PETER KLEIN: You know, I think that -- Bill talked a little bit in his comments about netbooks and how netbooks were -- they hit their peak last year in Q2. And I think what we've seen is, over the course of this year in the consumer space, some of that volume being replaced with newer devices like ultra-portables and tablets. And largely, these are second devices, not primary devices. And that's caused a little bit of a drag on the consumer side.

BILL KOEFOED: Holly, let's move to the next question.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & COMPANY: Just a quick question. Peter, you had talked about the SQL Server Premium business being up double digits in the quarter. I know earlier this week, I think it was, you announced some appliances with HP. Do you think that type of relationship can further accelerate that growth? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, I mean, I think partnerships with some of our key partners are very important for helping us to continue to grow in that part of the market. And HP is a perfect example of somebody who is a very important partner when it comes to some of this infrastructure and database platforms. And even more broadly in the cloud, for taking it to market. So yes, I think that can be a real benefit.

BRAD REBACK: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: It looks like you're talking of the business PC versus consumer PC and also implicitly the premium mix should also go up, yet you talk about client revenues more or less in line with PC unit growth rate for fiscal year. I'm trying to reconcile the contradiction there. Because it would seem like your client revenue should grow faster than PC units, given what we're talking about, especially coupled with Windows 7 Enterprise operating cycle. Any comments? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Kash. It's the emerging markets growing faster than developed markets. So we have offsetting dynamics going on. Business PCs growing faster than consumer. It's good for attach and good for pricing. And emerging markets growing faster than developed markets has the opposite effect. And so what you're seeing is largely those two things offsetting each other.

BILL KOEFOED: Holly, let's go to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Colin Gillis, BGC Financial.

COLIN GILLIS, ANALYST, BGC FINANCIAL: Just real briefly, search is now basically a duopoly and a lot of the search marketers are looking pretty favorably at Bing. Is now the time to increase the outreach in marketing efforts?

PETER KLEIN: Well, we're extremely focused on doing what we need to do to be successful in that business. And we've been laser beam-focused on what that is. One is growing our search share. The other is growing our revenue per search. And we continue to grow our share every quarter. We're going to continue to focus on that. We're going to do a lot of things -- a lot of the same things that we're doing for that.

Bill talked about some of the product enhancements. I think that's probably the most important thing we can do to really differentiate the new product experience, because I think that's really what drives usage in share and search. And then, of course, on the revenue per search side, the Yahoo integration is a key component of that and we're excited to move forward in that.

But really on the share side -- I mean, we'll do interesting marketing things like we have been doing, but I think what I really get excited about is the product enhancements and some of the partnerships we've got there.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Wondering if you can update us on where things stand with regard to Kinect supply and how we should be thinking about units into Q3? And relatedly, the EPD operating margin of 18% was up 3 points year-over-year and a little better than I would have expected, given the marketing launch around Kinect. If you could talk about the prospects for margin expansion over the next couple of years.

PETER KLEIN: Well, for -- to your first question on supply, I think you should just go to the Outlook framework that we gave you, to have a good sense of what we expect for the Xboxes and E&D over the next coming quarters. And in terms of margin, the long-term story is a good one, right? As we build our install base -- the business model for that business is build an install base that really engaged users, but then you attach lots of software and services to. That's been part of the strength of the Xbox LIVE service. And of course, as we build the install base of Kinect, we have a whole new generation and evolution of games that we can sell into our install base.

So all of those things are very positive long-term for that business. In the short-term for this quarter, we obviously prioritize and allocated our resources very carefully against the launch of that. And so we were able to have a successful launch and still improve the profitability profile of the business.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Peter, I think you said that IDC said that 90% of enterprise companies had started a formal migration to Windows 7. Can you tell us how penetrated you think, even roughly, corporations are at this point? And when I say corporations, exclude small business -- really talking mid-market to enterprise.

PETER KLEIN: You know, I don't know exactly. It's very early. I can give you some anecdotal feedback on certainly conversations I've had with our sales folks and directly with customers. The majority of the people I talk to are either in the middle of doing it or at the last stages of evaluating and have a specific plan to do it. In fact, most of them have said we want to go faster, because once they get started, they realize the productivity benefits and the cost savings are really compelling. But it is early in terms of getting those migrations done.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks for taking my questions. Peter, I was wondering if you could talk to us about really the cloud momentum? I saw the slide in the slide deck. But really, if you look at Office 365 launching from a beta perspective, it's oversubscribed. Can you maybe just walk us through how you see cloud revenue at 12, 24 months out? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. I'm really excited about roadmapping the opportunity. We obviously haven't given any guidance on the revenue of that and how fast it's going to ramp. I'm certainly excited both about the customer wins that we talked about for our existing product and then the conversations we're having about the roadmap to Office 365 are really exciting.

So in addition to just the beta being oversubscribed, it's now part of the conversations we're having with all of our customers. And it's one of those things where it's going to happen. And the exact speed of the ramp is uncertain. I do believe that once it starts to accelerate, it's going to accelerate pretty fast.

ROBERT BREZA: Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, Operator, this will be our last question.

OPERATOR: Thank you. Ed Maguire with CLSA. Your line is open.

EDWARD MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: I want to just follow-up on Rob's question around the online services in Azure. Could you talk about some of the conversations that you're having and the criteria, as customers are deciding whether to stay on premise or adopt a Software-as-a-Service solution, what that means in terms of their economics and, ultimately, what it may mean for you and the business model, as it becomes a bigger part of the business?

PETER KLEIN: Yes. There's really two dimensions to the conversation. One is about economics and one is about capabilities. So let me talk about sort of the applications or the Office 365 types of services.

People are very interested in that for two reasons. One, ultimately, if the economics are very good for them once they migrate over. But probably even the stronger driver, especially now in the conversations, is the ability to more quickly take advantage of the latest capabilities that we have. So it's a very easy way to deploy the latest versions of our software. And increasingly, that's really the biggest piece of the dialogue. On the -- and so that's on the Office 365 side.

On the Azure side, the conversation is really about moving up from thinking about infrastructure as a service to platform as a service, and what they get with Azure in terms of management and security and the developer ecosystem. That's really what excites them in talking about the platform of the service or, Azure, if you will.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay. So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the numerous conferences in which we'll be participating in this quarter. For those of you who are unable to attend in person, we will be able to -- you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need additional details.

Thanks again for joining us today and have a good day.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference. You may disconnect at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
ivirtusw : Virtualization Software | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302021 : Applications Software | icomp : Computing | i3302020 : Systems Software
   NS
ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c31 : Marketing
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110210e71r003jw
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,345 words
   PD
28 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft first-quarter fiscal year 2011 earnings conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. During the question-and-answer session, (Operator Instructions). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Barb, and thank you, everyone, for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me here today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today, we filed our Form 10-Q. In addition, we posted our earnings release and financial summary slide deck on our new Investor Relations website at Microsoft.com/investor. The slide deck is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, as well as a summary of segment reporting changes to historical results.

As was the case last quarter, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the complete transcript is available.

Today's webcast will be live -- today's call will be webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript and any other future use of the recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until October 28, 2011.

This conference call is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this call or any portion of it without the express written permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

Today, we will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during the conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.

Okay? And with that, I'll turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill, and good afternoon, everyone. I am pleased to be able to share with you our excellent results for the first quarter, which reflect the ongoing strength and breadth of our product portfolio. Demand from both businesses and consumers drove healthy revenue growth. We delivered record first-quarter revenue, operating income, and earnings per share. We continued to control costs while prioritizing our investments into the highest growth opportunities, resulting in another quarter of margin expansion.

As we discussed at our Analyst Meeting in July, we have eight core focus areas that we feel have the greatest opportunity to drive shareholder value. This quarter, we had exceptional momentum across these focus areas, and I want to start today's call by giving you some important highlights.

First, Microsoft Business Desktop is thriving, with enterprises and small and medium-sized businesses investing in our products and services. Not only are companies adopting Windows 7 and Office 2010 at historically high rates, they are also investing in our office Productivity platform, including SharePoint, Exchange, Dynamic CRM, and Lync, the newly rebranded office communication server, all of which grew double digits this quarter.

Server and database businesses had strong momentum, as our data center and cloud offerings remain a top priority for our customers as they continue to adopt the Microsoft platform. In addition, Windows Azure had strong subscription growth and we announced a number of platform enhancements this morning at our Professional Developers Conference.

As I mentioned at the beginning of the call, consumer demand for our products continued to drive terrific results this quarter. In terms of our core focus areas, Xbox momentum continued, with our console outselling every competing console in the US for the fourth consecutive month. Bing used hit an all-time high, with almost double the number of queries since it launched last year. And consumers continued to show their strong preference for Windows 7 and Office 2010. Customer satisfaction across our products remains at record high levels.

We also made exciting progress in the mobile space, with the recent launch of Windows Phone 7 in Europe and Asia, and the upcoming November 8 launch in the US.

So in summary, I'm very pleased with our performance this quarter. We executed well in all of our core focus areas and we're off to a good start for the year.

With that, I'll hand it back to Bill to provide more details on the quarter's results.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. I'll start today by noting that all of my comments are adjusted for the $1.5 billion of revenue which was deferred in the first quarter of last year. As you probably recall, this deferral was related to the Windows 7 upgrade program and Windows 7 licenses sold in advance of general availability in the first quarter of last year.

We've reconciled this non-GAAP view to GAAP results in our earnings slide deck. All growth comparisons I make on the call today will relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless I specify otherwise.

Okay. Now to our results. We started the fiscal year with great financial performance. Total revenue for the Company was up 13% to $16.2 billion. Operating income and EPS grew 20% and 19%, respectively, again, outpacing revenue growth. Bookings for the Company were up an outstanding 24% this quarter. Bookings growth over the last three quarters was the highest in the last three years. Operating cash flow passed $8 billion for the first time ever and was up 34%.

A number of the demand patterns and trends we saw in the second half of our fiscal year 2010 were sustained through the first quarter of 2011. In the first quarter, consumer demand for Office 2010 and Xbox were outstanding, and we're pleased with the continued adoption and growth of Windows 7 and Bing. Sales to small and medium businesses were exceptionally strong, with revenue up over 30%. This growth was partially due to a greater level of partner engagement, as we had an increase of over 15% in the number of partners selling Microsoft products around the world.

We also saw strengthening trends in the Enterprise segment, despite what is typically a seasonally weak quarter. Our compelling product portfolio across Windows, Server and Tools, and the Microsoft Business division is driving increased enterprise agreement renewals.

Unearned revenue at the end of the quarter was $13.9 billion due to the strength in enterprise agreements. The contracted/not-billed balance ended the quarter over $16 billion, significantly above pre-recession levels.

Geographically, emerging markets continue to significantly outperform the rest of the world. Growth in the US and Europe remains stable and healthy. We see customers of all sizes embracing cloud services from Microsoft. Organizations are leveraging our commercial and educational online services to run their businesses and institutions, while consumers are increasingly using services like Xbox Live, Windows Live, and Office Web apps. Microsoft has significant cloud momentum and we are leading the industry through this transformation.

Turning to the PC market, we estimate PCs grew between 9% and 11% in the first quarter. Consumer PCs grew single digits while the business PCs grew mid-teens, as the business hardware refresh remains strong. From a geographic perspective, we estimate emerging market PCs grew over three times the rate of mature markets.

Regarding netbook trends, we have seen consumers shift from buying netbooks to low-end notebooks, and we have not seen a material shift away from low-end PCs due to tablets in the market. Instead, we've predominantly seen consumers increase their number of devices and their usage scenarios. Going forward, we see a strong pipeline of innovation from our partners for new Windows form factors.

With that PC backdrop, I'll move on to the results for the Windows and Windows Live division, which grew 10%. Windows 7 drove the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth for the division. In the first quarter, Windows OEM revenue, which represents approximately 75% of the Windows and Windows Live division, was up 11%. In our earnings slide deck, we provide the usual bridge from revenue -- usual revenue bridge to market, but in summary, the overall dynamics of the market were as expected, with strength in business PCs and emerging markets.

Now let's move to Server and Tools, which posted a great quarter with 12% revenue growth. We estimate the underlying server hardware market grew mid-teens. Non-annuity revenue grew approximately 15%, with Windows server growing in line with the hardware market. Multi-year licensing revenue growth was roughly 10% and enterprise service grew 9%.

At the Financial Analyst Meeting in July, we discussed the assets and momentum of our Server and Tools portfolio. Let me provide some additional context to the underlying momentum and adoption this quarter.

As Peter mentioned, our data center and cloud offerings are a top priority for businesses. We estimate Windows Server usage share grew 1.5 points, while at the same time, Windows Server premium mix grew 4 points. Systems center revenue growth grew over 20%, and within that, revenue from server virtualization suites grew over 50%. Our virtualization share continues to grow, as IDC reports Hyper-V share of newly virtualized host doubled over the past year to 16.5%.

Windows Azure is gaining traction and has grown subscriptions 40% sequentially. This morning at PDC, we announced a number of platform enhancements, as Peter mentioned. These enhancements will help customers build new applications and migrate existing applications to the cloud, and allow developers and ISVs to build unique applications with the richest datasets possible.

Next, I'll move to the Online Services Division, which grew 8%. The online advertising component of the division grew 13%, primarily driven by our search business, which again, outperformed the market leader. Yesterday, Bing reached a significant milestone with the Yahoo partnership. Through diligent efforts on behalf of both companies, Bing is now powering Yahoo's algorithmic and paid search results in the US and Canada.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division, where revenue grew 14% -- in the fourth quarter, I commented that the market's reception to Office 2010 has been phenomenal and the first quarter was no different. Consumer revenue grew 26% from continued launch momentum. Office 2010's unit sales are 20% ahead of Office 2007 over the same time period. In addition, our free Office Web app now have more than 20 million users since our June launch.

The business portion of MBD grew 11%, with the non-annuity sales of Office 2010 up almost 50%. We've seen strong demand from small and medium customers, and PC attach has rebounded from the year-ago levels.

The multi-year licensing portion of the business grew about 5%. We've spoken with you about the Office Productivity platform strategy, which includes Office, SharePoint, Exchange, Dynamic CRM, and Lync, and we've seen strong momentum and renewal rates with our 2010 offering.

Let me give you some of the underlying product momentum in MBD. Lync grew 25% and the new version is expected to be available in our second fiscal quarter. Dynamic CRM, which just released a new beta this quarter, grew healthy double digits. Sales of exchange and SharePoint, which are each billion-dollar-plus businesses, also grew healthy double digits.

Enterprises are adopting the entire business productivity infrastructure. They now have unparalleled choice when deploying their applications in their own data center or in the cloud.

During the quarter, we announced a number of significant cloud wins, including the City of New York last week. The number of business customers licensing our cloud services has more than tripled in the last year. In education, we now have over 10,000 schools and 11 million students signed up for our Live@edu service.

On October 19, we announced the next generation of our cloud productivity service, Office 365. Office 365 brings together Lync, SharePoint, Exchange, and Office Professional Plus Desktop software, and an always up-to-date cloud service, and is designed to meet the needs of organizations of all types and sizes.

From a business model perspective, Office 365 creates new profit growth opportunities for us and our partners, and enables new scenarios that weren't viable in the past. With Office 365, we can reach more people; we will sell more to each customer; and we will increase customer satisfaction. Office 365 will be available worldwide in calendar 2011.

Okay. Let's move on to the Entertainment and Devices Division, which grew 27%, reflecting higher Xbox 360 platform revenue. We sold 2.8 million consoles this quarter, a unit increase of 38%. In the US, the new Xbox 360 console has outsold all other platforms since its introduction, resulting in a record first-quarter shipment. Halo Reach also had a solid launch this quarter, reaching approximately $350 million in revenue. The Halo effect extended to Xbox Live with continued strong membership growth this quarter.

Windows Phone 7 launched last week in Europe and Asia, and we eagerly anticipate the introduction in the US on November 8.

Now let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Cost of goods sold increased 10% to $3.1 billion, driven primarily by increased Xbox hardware volume and online costs. Operating expenses were $5.9 billion in the quarter, an increase of 6%. In the first quarter, we repurchased $4 billion of shares, returned $1.4 billion through dividends, and increased our dividend rate 23%.

So, in summary, we're off to a great financial start for the year with 24% bookings growth; we've seen strong business spending across Windows, Server and Tools, and the Microsoft Business Division in both traditional and cloud offerings; and our cloud momentum continued -- our consumer momentum continued.

And with that, I'll hand it back to Peter, who's going to continue to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Great. Thanks, Bill. For the remainder of the call, I'll discuss our expectations for the second quarter and the remainder of fiscal 2011.

According to many recent surveys, enterprise IT spent should continue to grow for the remainder of the fiscal year. With the depth and breadth of our offerings, we are well-positioned to grow our share of the IT spending market. We expect business PC and server hardware purchasing to remain a high priority for most businesses. The business PC refresh cycle should continue through at least the remainder of this fiscal year. As was the case this quarter, we expect business PC growth to outpace consumer PC growth, and emerging market growth to outpace developed market growth.

We are confident that tablets will expand the PC market and we are enthusiastic about our opportunity, along with our partners, to bring Windows to additional form factors and new usage scenarios. Windows will continue to provide the choice and value that customers want across devices.

With that backdrop, I'll now turn to segment expectations.

Windows division revenue should grow roughly in line with the PC market for the second quarter and the full year when excluding the impact of the prior-year tech guarantee and revenue attributed to the launch spike. For the second quarter of fiscal year 2010, you should exclude $1.7 billion of revenue related to the tech guarantee and $600 million of revenue related to the launch spike. For the full year, you should exclude $300 million and $700 million, respectively, related to these events.

Moving on to Server and Tools, for Q2 and the full year, we expect non-annuity revenue, approximately 30% of the total, to generally track with the hardware market. Multi-year licensing revenue, approximately 50% of the total, should grow high single digits for the second quarter and low double digits for the full fiscal year. Services, which is the remaining 20%, should grow mid-single digits for both the second quarter and the full fiscal year.

Turning to expectations for the Microsoft Business Division, consumer and business non-annuity revenue, approximately 40% of the division's total revenue, should continue to track to PC shipment growth rates for the second quarter and the fiscal year. We also expect revenue associated with multi-year agreements, representing 60% of total revenue, to grow mid to high single digits for the second quarter and the fiscal year, as we slowly start to recognize the higher growth billings going on to the balance sheet.

When updating your models, you should remember that next quarter, in addition to the framework I just provided, we will also recognize approximately $220 million of deferred revenue related to tech guarantee.

For Q2 and the full fiscal year, we expect Online Services Division revenue to outperform the online advertising market, reflecting continued organic revenue growth as well as new revenue associated with our Yahoo partnership. The majority of Yahoo-related revenue will be recognized net of traffic acquisition costs. We expect the benefits of the integration to occur gradually over the next several quarters.

And finally, in the Entertainment and Devices Division, we are very excited about the launch of Windows Phone 7, and we anticipate that Connect will be the gift this holiday season. Considering the momentum and high level of consumer interest in our offerings, we expect this division's revenue to grow roughly 30% for the second quarter and in the mid-20s for the full fiscal year.

Switching to cost of goods sold expectations for the Company, the biggest factor impacting COGS next quarter will be the expected and significant increase in hardware sales, due to the upcoming launch of Connect. Obviously, Xbox consoles and Connect have a higher COGS profile relative to revenue than the rest of our business, and you should consider this impact in your model.

Turning to operating expenses, we continue to prioritize our investments and remain diligent on cost controls. We are reconfirming our guidance of $26.9 billion to $27.3 billion for the full fiscal year. We expect the low interest rate environment we experienced in the first quarter to continue through the second quarter and the fiscal year, and for investment income to be fairly consistent with the first quarter level.

We continue to expect capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 to be about $2.5 billion. We expect our effective tax rate to be 23% to 24% for the second quarter and the remainder of the fiscal year.

Turning to the balance sheet, at the end of the second quarter, we expect unearned revenue to roughly follow historic seasonal patterns, excluding the $220 million impact of the tech guarantees.

So with that color for Q2 and the rest of our fiscal year, I want to close by saying that we are extremely pleased with the results we delivered this quarter. We executed well in all of our core focus areas. The products and services we've brought to market over the past year are being embraced by our customers; and as a result, our product portfolio is as strong as it has ever been. This, combined with our continued prioritization of investments into the highest growth opportunities, will help us drive long-term revenue and earnings per share growth.

With that, let's take some questions. Bill?

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Barb, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thank you and congratulations on a really good start to the year. My question is about Office; obviously, also a very good start for 2010. As you look back at 2007, business growth exceeded 20% for a number of quarters. As you think about the internals in terms of penetration and duration for this cycle, what are your early thoughts about how it can compare it? And where are you seeing evidence on success around some of the bundling that you talked about?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Adam. At a high level, certainly, I'd point you to the guidance framework that we just talked about and what we expect relative to the business PC market. And obviously, business hardware refresh is a great underlying driver for that business as well as the excitement around the product.

And in terms of Office, I think the thing that's most encouraging for me is the breadth of the strength around it across all customer segments, whether that was small and medium-sized businesses and enterprises.

In terms of the integration story, Bill touched on the strong growth across all of those businesses, and I think you're really starting to see that resonate very well with customers. And in fact, as we had anticipated when we were talking about anticipating 2010, Office 2010, that was going to be a key part of the story. I think we're starting to see that play out early days, which I think can sustain for awhile.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, ISI Group.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Peter, I was wondering, you mentioned that the Enterprise 7 -- Windows 7 Enterprise upgrade cycle would last at least through the end of fiscal '11. I guess I'm just wondering if you could share with us how the upgrade cycle itself is tracking versus your expectations from a few quarters ago? Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. I would say two things. One, just in terms of Enterprise's desire to upgrade, very strong, sort of the high level. I think what we're seeing is people actually doing their deployments a little bit faster than I think we expected and we'd seen in the past.

In terms of the overall business, obviously, we're seeing enterprise and businesses refresh their hardware, which is obviously a great thing in terms of the Windows 7 business.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Bill, Peter, I'm wondering if you can talk a bit about just enterprise agreements in general. And we're certainly not back to a normal economic environment, but your performance there, especially the improvements over the last several quarters here seems to suggest that maybe you are getting back to normal behavior from customers, despite headcount being pressured. I'm just wondering if you could talk to us about what you're seeing as the drivers of growth in that part of the business more generally.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Walter. I think you're seeing the confluence of several things. Obviously, one is just macroeconomics and businesses investing in IT again. And I think the other is our product portfolio. And so it's a combination of those two things has gotten enterprises really wanting to invest both in their IT infrastructure and in our portfolio products.

So as we had hoped, over the course of the last year, we thought those two things might come together. The last thing I'll say is the accelerated interest in the cloud. And so when you add on top of it where we've come in terms of our cloud offerings and what that means for enterprises, as they think about investing for the long-term, they want to invest with somebody who can make the transition from their on-premise infrastructure to the cloud as smooth as possible. And I think you're seeing that as well.

So the conversations that we're having always include our new product portfolio as well as our cloud offerings. And I think that, taking into account the better macroeconomic environment, has all come together to really drive a better environment.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking my question, guys. Peter, on the cost side, you had tremendous operating margins this quarter. As you look forward, you maintain the cost goals for the full year. Is that in anticipation of what's coming around the Windows Phone launch and Connect? Or are there ways to continue to see you be a lot more efficient on the cost side over the next couple of quarters?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, thanks, Sarah. No, as you know, we're always looking at ways to be as efficient as we can on the cost. And right now we're executing against the plan. We feel very good about our plan that we've been talking about over the last couple of quarters. And first quarter was good and we continue to execute against that plan. And obviously, in Q2, we do have some launches coming up and that was always in our plans, and those starting off are going very well.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, if you could drill one level deeper into the corporate demand and maybe give us a sense of what inning you think we're in, in terms of the corporate upgrade.

PETER KLEIN: Oh, first baseball reference. Thanks, Brent. I won't say Go Giants.

BRENT THILL: You can say it.

PETER KLEIN: Okay.

BILL KOEFOED: He doesn't want to, but I do.

PETER KLEIN: In our guidance, we talked about the rest of this year. I think we have to see how that plays out. That's sort of where we have visibility and what we're talking about. But certainly, over the last couple of quarters, looking forward over the next couple of quarters, and in talking to customers and what they're looking to invest in, clearly, a priority is investing in refreshing their hardware and the related Microsoft products that come along with that.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great quarter. I just wanted to focus in on the Server and Tools division for a minute. Peter, what are your OEM partners telling you about where we stand in the server refresh cycle? And how much do they see these high growth rates that we're seeing in server shipments either continuing are not continuing into next year? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. No, thanks, Phil. Similar to PCs, I think it's a similar dynamic, that businesses are investing broadly in their infrastructure, whether that's PCs or servers. On our outlook, we talked about how we expect that to continue for the rest of this fiscal year. So it's very similar to what we just talked about in terms of the PC refresh.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Katherine Egbert, Jefferies.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: If I do some math, I come up with about 40% of your revenue coming from all consumer sources and about 60% business. It looks like the consumer revenue is about flat year-on-year and the business revenue is growing high teens. Is that accurate?

PETER KLEIN: Well --

BILL KOEFOED: We look at it that way.

PETER KLEIN: Yes, it's hard to answer that question because I don't know exactly your math. I will point out a couple of key highlights on the consumer side. If you look at Entertainment and Devices, the Xbox growth of 27%, that's something that we feel really good about and gives us great momentum heading into the holiday with Connect. And the same thing with our search revenue, outgrowing the market. So those are some of the key highlights. (multiple speakers)

BILL KOEFOED: And consumer and Office was up 26%.

PETER KLEIN: Correct. And we actually feel really good about the consumer growth. It's hard to answer the specific question without --

BILL KOEFOED: Seeing we feel good about the business growth, so it was a good quarter for both.

PETER KLEIN: Yes.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Okay, thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question, please.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: It's good to see the cash flow and the operating margins, so obviously you bought back a ton of stock in the quarter. My question is about growth. I just want to answer this from a qualitative standpoint.

Incrementally relative to the last two quarters, what's your confidence level in your growth rate? I just noticed some of the forward-looking indicators. Your business tends to lag router spending because you have this annuity model for the most part. And look at the unbilled portion that set a record high. Your [E] renewals you characterize better than before. The [defers] also came in nicely.

What is your incremental confidence with respect to your revenue growth rate? Considering you have your expenses tied up, I would assume that there's a lot of operating leverage for the incremental revenue. So talk to us about your about your confidence in your revenue growth outlook. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Great. Yes, obviously, we feel pretty good. We had such strong performance on the business side and that flowed through. If you look at our outlook on the annuity site, to your point, we slightly increased our annuity revenue outlook in MBD and SDB, which reflects the strength in the billings that we've seen.

Now as you pointed out, it takes time for that to flow through the income statement, and it will throughout the rest of the year.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan Chase.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE: Peter, my question has to do with PC market -- PC sales, unit sales. You and your Windows OEM revenue bridge, which is always very helpful, you start off with PC market 10% growth, but industry analysts are coming out -- and I know you're not doing their work, but it's actually quite different from what we've seen out there from industry analysts by about 2.5% in this quarter, which is a bigger range than we usually see.

Just wondering, can you just help us out a little bit with that? Because those things come out throughout the quarter and we take a look at those and we realize that a lot of your -- well, at least the Windows business and also MBD with Office is driven by that, or at least significantly driven by that. Any comments on that, the difference?

BILL KOEFOED: Actually, John, I'll take that. So IDC came out and said 10% and Gartner said 8%. So our range of 9% to 11% was slightly higher than Gartner's and IDC's was in the mid-range. So we feel like our analysis for the PC market -- obviously, we look at those data points as well as others, was completely in line. So happy to talk to you about it after the call one-on-one on a -- [call down] if you want.

Operator, next question.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thanks, Bill.

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Wells Fargo.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WELLS FARGO SECURITIES: I actually had a question on Windows 7. The premium mix of it was pretty good this quarter. I'm just curious, in light of your commentary about the enterprise adoption cycle, is it fair to say you anticipate sort of similar levels playing out there in terms of how that percentage mix plays out for the rest of the year?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, generally speaking, the biggest factor in premium mix is going to be the business mix. And as we talked about, we expected those dynamics to continue for the rest of this year.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: So, Bill, I think you had highlighted earlier in the call that the big win with the Office 365 product at New York, it was a fairly competitive bid, it looks like. Could you guys maybe talk to what the economics of that look like to you from a profitability standpoint over the life of that contract? Clearly, a lot of concern as people move to the cloud that that could negatively impact the P&L. So maybe you could talk to a real world example.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. No, happy to do that. And it's a great question. Bill touched a little bit on the business model and we talked about this a little bit about at our analyst meeting.

These cloud wins and these cloud deals provides totally new economic opportunity for us. These are scenarios that we're not in today. In many cases, they're customers we don't have as customers today. In some cases, it's revenue that we may have from existing customers that we're not getting. The City of New York is a perfect example.

We have others like Starbucks and others where we're addressing totally new scenarios. [Edger] is a great example of that, which really -- it increases our penetration in that market. Similarly, we've talked about how in the mid-market you can really increase our penetration with services like this. So that's sort of the business model and how it creates economic profit for us.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Edward Maguire, CLSA.

EDWARD MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Looking at the double-digit growth in your Business Division products, could you talk about what's driving that and how closely that growth may be linked to the Windows 7 activity?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, it's not really tied to the Windows 7 activity; it's more a function of the product cycle with Office 2010 and all the related products like -- that go with it, like SharePoint and Exchange and Lync. And as we've touched on briefly before, the confluence of the macroeconomic environment picking up and enterprises investing in their infrastructure, they're seeing the value that you get, the increased productivity and the cost savings that you get. And that's what's really driving the interest in those products. And the new versions of those products have just introduced capabilities that enterprises really want.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Ed. Operator, we'll take one more question, please.

OPERATOR: And our last question comes from Gregg Moskowitz with Cowen and Company.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN AND COMPANY: Peter, you mentioned that the Windows Server premium mix was up 4 points, so I think you're now at 29%. And I believe that, at least a few quarters back, Microsoft had suggested that it would be difficult to get this above 30%. Is that still the feeling we should be thinking about? Or do you think, given this momentum, that you could drive the premium mix higher than that?

PETER KLEIN: Well, the first thing I'd say is the premium mix is over 20%. We haven't given an exact number on that. It's probably -- I think it's best to just continue to track it and not set a ceiling or an expectation for it.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ: Okay. Thank you.

PETER KLEIN: Okay, so that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call.

As many of you know, today is a busy day for us here in Redmond, as we have PDC going on here. I'd encourage you, if you haven't, to listen to the replays of the key notes that we've done at PDC.

We also look forward to seeing many of you at a number of fall conferences we'll be participating in this quarter. For those of you who are unable to attend in person, you will be able to follow our comments at Microsoft.com/investor. Please contact us if you need any additional details.

Thanks again for joining us today, and take care.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's call. Please disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101111e6as003ed
  


 HD
 Q4  2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,697 words
   PD
22 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft fourth-quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT: Thank you, Barb, and thank you everyone for joining us this afternoon. As usual, with me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today Peter will start with overall takeaways from the quarter and fiscal year. Then I will give you the details of our performance before handing it back to Peter, who will discuss our outlook. After that we will take your questions.

Our earnings press release today includes an addendum of financial highlights with detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks, as well as provide a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. You can find these documents on the Investor Relations website at Microsoft.com/msft.

In addition, as part of our ongoing efforts to improve and incorporate your feedback, we will post today's prepared remarks to our website immediately following the call until the official transcript is available. Today's call will be webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, in the transcript, and any future use of recording. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft Investor Relations website until July 22, 2011.

This conference call is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this call, or any portion of it, without the express written permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Okay, and with that I will turn the call over to Peter.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Bill, and good afternoon everyone. I'm very pleased to share with all of you our strong financial results. We achieved record revenue, operating income and earnings per share for both the fourth quarter and the full year.

This quarter our strong revenue performance was both broad and deep, with every business achieving double-digit growth. Strong sales execution closed the year with fourth-quarter bookings increasing 27%. For the year both the Windows Division and Server and Tools segment achieved record revenue.

We are equally enthusiastic about the customer and product momentum we have achieved this year across the breadth of our portfolio. Of course, I have to start by noting Windows 7, which has received tremendous market response. With 175 million licenses sold to date, it is the fastest selling operating system ever, and now runs on over 15% of all PCs worldwide.

Capitalizing on the recovery of the server hardware market, Windows Server 2008 R2 has enjoyed strong demand and increased Windows Server market share. With the launches of Exchange 2010 and most recently SharePoint 2010 and Office 2010, we delivered key innovations in our productivity portfolio.

Equally as important for our long-term growth, we made significant strides in our cloud initiative by bringing Windows Azure to market, and by increasing customer traction with our commercial online services.

Throughout the year we continued to update and enhance Bing, which has now achieved 13 consecutive months of marketshare growth. Finally, we focused on consumers with our new Xbox 360 consoles, and the announcements of Kinect and Windows Phone 7 coming to market this holiday season.

Meanwhile as a result of our ongoing commitment to managing costs, we held annual operating expenses roughly flat. Our continued revenue strength and cost discipline drove yet another consecutive quarter of margin expansion, and record annual profits in the Windows Division, Server and Tools business, and Entertainment and Devices Division, as well as the Company in total.

We grew full-year operating income by almost $4 billion and generated operating cash flow of $24 billion. Of this amount we returned about two-thirds, or almost $16 billion, to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends.

Finally, I am particularly pleased by our growth in earnings per share of 50% for the fourth quarter and 30% for the full year. So it has been a great fiscal year and an outstanding fourth quarter.

With those remarks, I will now turn the call over to Bill to provide more details on the quarter.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. As I review this quarter's performance keep in mind all growth comparisons relate to the corresponding period of last year, unless I specify otherwise.

As Peter noted in his opening remarks, we finished the year with terrific financial results. Total revenue for the quarter grew 22% to over $16 billion, a record fourth-quarter result. Windows, Online Services, Entertainment and Devices, Server and Tools, the Business Division, each of our operating segments grew revenues double digit this quarter, reflecting broad-based strength across all of our businesses.

Fourth-quarter GAAP operating income grew 49%, while EPS grew 50%. Looking at the full year, and adjusting for the tech guarantees, we had four consecutive quarters of margin expansion, with EPS growing faster than revenue every quarter.

Operating cash flow was up 46% to a fourth-quarter record $5.6 billion. As for the year, operating cash flow surpassed $24 billion, as Peter noted, also a record.

Customer demand was strong across the breadth of the Microsoft portfolio this quarter, as we saw total bookings growth accelerate to 27%. In the Enterprise businesses continued to invest in and commit to the Microsoft platform. Sales execution and enterprise agreement renewal rates have improved as unearned revenue at the end of the quarter was $14.8 billion, up a very healthy 21% sequentially. The contracted not-billed balance ended the year over a record $15 billion.

The small and midmarket customer segment continued to experience robust growth and was up approximately 20%. Finally, continuing a trend this year, consumer demand was fantastic with growth in Windows, Office, Search and Xbox.

Geographically we saw strength across all regions led by emerging market. Growth in the US improved this quarter, while demand in Europe remained healthy. The PC market continues to thrive, and we estimate the market grew between 22% and 24%, with both consumer and business growing in the same range.

From a geographic perspective, emerging markets remain a significant driver of the PC market with almost twice the growth of mature markets. With that PC backdrop, I will move on to the Windows and Windows Live Division.

Windows revenue grew over $1 billion, or 32%, this quarter when adjusted for the Windows Tech Guarantee last year. Total OEM license code was 26% and outpaced the PC market for the third quarter in a row. Consumer and business licenses both grew approximately 26%.

The business PC refresh cycle has accelerated, and we recorded the second straight quarter of double-digit business license growth. As in past quarters to help you bridge the secret to OEM revenue growth, we have provided a reconciliation slide in our earnings deck.

At 31% growth, adjusted Windows OEM revenue outgrew PC shipments by 7 percentage point this quarter. The hardware segment mix was a 3 point headwind to revenue. As I mentioned earlier, emerging markets continued to outpace mature markets.

Windows attach and inventory drove 6 percentage points of growth. We exited the quarter with normal inventory levels and continue to benefit from solid attach gains in both business and consumer. Finally, upsell and channel dynamics drove 7 percentage point of growth, reflecting a higher Windows 7 operating mix.

Enterprise adoption of Windows 7 accelerated and the non-OEM portion of the Windows Division grew 36%, driven by an increase in volume licensing to businesses and retail sales of Windows 7.

Clearly the Windows franchise is thriving. Importantly, customer satisfaction for Windows 7 is incredibly high at 94%, and businesses are deploying Windows 7 in the enterprise.

In the browser IE 8 is now the fastest growing and most popular Web browser in the market, with IE 9 coming soon.

Now let's move to Server and Tools, which posted 14% revenue growth in the fourth quarter, and had a record year with $14.9 billion of revenue. We estimate the underlying server hardware market grew 25% to 28%. Non-annuity revenue grew approximately 20%. Windows Server grew with the market, while SQL Server 2008 R2 and Visual Studio Developer Tools also contributed to the growth.

Annuity revenue, which is approximately 50% of the business, grew about 15% with improved enterprise demand. From a product perspective Windows Server, SQL Server and System Center all experienced double-digit growth. Enterprise Services about 20% of revenue grew 3%.

Windows Server continues to gain share as businesses replace and procure new hardware in the data center. We estimate Windows Server grew its marketshare over 1 percentage point, while at the same time increasing premium mix to about 25%. Our virtualization suite almost doubled this quarter.

In addition to the share gains in and the traditional server market, Microsoft is leading the way to the cloud with our Windows Azure services platform. Just last week at the Worldwide Partner Conference, we unveiled a number of new cloud innovations and partnerships, further increasing the alignment between or on-premise Windows Server, SQL Server and System Center products with the Azure platform.

Next I will move on to the Online Services division, which grew 13%. The online advertising component of the division grew 19%, primarily driven by our Search business, which again outperforms the market.

We continue to be encouraged by Bing's ongoing share gains due to the pace of exciting innovation and differentiation it brings to the market. June marks the 13th consecutive month of share gains in the US, which is now up over 4 points since launch.

Turning to the Microsoft Business Division, revenue grew 15%, and Office 2010 is off to a great start. Consumer revenue, which includes OEM and retail, grew 51% following the launch of Office 2010, heading back into the back-to-school season.

The business portion of MBD grew 8%. Non-annuity license sales jumped 15%, trending toward PC shipment growth as expected. The annuity licensing portion of the business grew 6%, driven by an increase in enterprise demand.

Office and the integration with SharePoint, Office Communications Server and Dynamics CRM had strong demand and each of these products grew double digits this quarter. The cloud enhances these productivity scenarios, and our customers are purchasing suites of our Online Services at an increasing pace. 70% of our business productivity online seats represent new business to Microsoft.

Let's move onto the Entertainment and Devices Division, which grew 27%. Gaming revenue grew 30% as we sold 1.5 million consoles, a unit net increase of 26%, taking share as we grew faster than the overall market. Xbox LIVE continues to be a tremendous asset with over 25 million members. This year marks the first time that Xbox LIVE digital marketplace revenue exceeded subscription revenue, illustrating the services increasing level of customer engagement and monetization.

Non-gaming revenue was up 23%, driven by growth in Windows Embedded and sales of PC accessories that generally align to PC market growth. This quarter at E3 we unveiled Kinect, the Xbox 360 motion sensor which will enable you to play games and control your music and movies with just your voice or a wave of your hand. No controller required.

Earlier this week we announced products and pricing for the all new Kinect experience. The Kinect experience, with more than 15 games available this holiday, begins in North America on November 4.

Now let me cover the remainder of the income statement. Foreign exchange had a 2% positive impact to revenue this quarter. We experienced a headwind from the euro, as one would expect, but this was more than offset by our hedging program and the dollar weakening in other currencies. Cost of goods sold increased 23% to $3.2 billion, driven primarily by increased online costs, royalties and other charges.

Operating expenses were $6.9 billion in the quarter, under our guidance range, and we are very pleased with the Q4 execution and fiscal discipline. Headcount decreased 4% year-over-year. We repurchased $3.8 billion of shares and paid $1.1 billion of dividends.

So to wrap up, our product cycle momentum continues with the release of Office 2010 and the breadth of our portfolio, which drove record results. Our cost discipline remains strong. In the cloud we have great momentum and are seeing businesses invest in the Microsoft platform.

With that, I will hand it back to Peter, who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks, Bill. I will now share our thoughts on the first quarter and total fiscal year 2011. We are entering the year with great momentum. We are encouraged by the resurgence in business PC shipments, and expect the business PC refresh cycle to continue through fiscal year 2011. The recent refresh of our Enterprise Products has positioned us well to meet customers' needs as they return to investing in information technology.

Turning to our outlook by business, we expect Windows Division revenue to grow roughly in line with PC shipments for the first quarter and full year, excluding the $700 million revenue impact from the Windows 7 retail launch, and $276 million from the technology guarantee revenue, carried over from fiscal year 2009.

For the Microsoft Business Division, consumer and business non-annuity revenue, approximately 40% of the total, should continue to track with their PC shipment growth rates for the first quarter and full year. Annuity revenue for the first quarter and full year should grow low to mid single digits.

Moving to the Server and Tools business, for the first quarter we expect non-annuity revenue to be up mid-to high single digits as first-quarter bookings are sales cycle driven and tend to be the softest seasonal quarter irrespective of hardware shipments. For the full year we expect non-annuity revenue to generally track with the hardware market. We expect annuity revenue to grow roughly high single digits for the first quarter and full year. Enterprise Services revenue should grow mid-single digits.

For the Online Services Divison our online advertising business should outperform the overall online advertising market. Regarding our search partnership with Yahoo!, we are working closely with them to migrate both algorithmic and paid traffic in North America for this holiday season.

Finally, I will cover the Entertainment and Devices Division. Based upon the compelling wave of consumer offerings coming to market, we expect revenue will grow in the mid teens for the first quarter and full year, following its normal seasonal skew to the first half of the year.

Moving to cost of goods sold, gross margins will be impacted by product mix, and particularly by the increase in hardware sales that will drive growth in the Entertainment and Devices Division.

We remain focused on diligently managing our cost structure and are lowering our full-year operating expense guidance to between $26.9 billion and $27.3 billion, which includes our estimate of Yahoo! search integration expenses. We expect our effective tax rate to remain approximately 25%.

Pushing to the balance sheet, we expect that the first quarter unearned revenue balance will track to normal historical patterns on a sequential basis, after adjusting for the impact of tech guarantees in the prior year.

Capital expenditures for fiscal year 2011 will be about $2.5 billion. This will be the second year in a row in which CapEx spending will be lower than depreciation expense. We will continue to generate strong free cash flow and remain committed to returning capital to shareholders through dividend and stock repurchases.

So, in summary, I am very pleased by our outstanding financial results for the quarter and the full year. We have great product momentum in the market and strong business and consumer demand for our most recent wave of products. With the exciting pipeline of consumer products arriving to market this holiday season, we are well-positioned to continue this momentum this coming year.

On that note, I am looking forward to seeing all of you at our financial analyst meeting next week. And I will now return the call to Bill, so that we can begin taking your questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Peter. We want to get questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to one question and avoid long or multipart questions. Barb, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Walter Pritchard, Citi.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITI: I was wondering if you could elucidate a little bit on the PC side, your assumptions for fiscal '11, and just talk about tablets and how you're thinking about that market. Are you talking about growing in line with traditional PCs? And what impact do you think tablets will have on the market, and what may be your share in that area, and how does that affect your growth rate?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, we are very excited about the market. The PC market is the PC market excluding tablets. But, obviously, we are super happy with both the state of the PC market and the customer traction for Windows 7.

We think tablets are very interesting and remind us that there are always new scenarios and new opportunities. And we are constantly working with our partners and our OEM partners. In fact, I think one of the things that has driven the PC market and Windows growth this year has been the work we have done with our OEM partners on multiple scenarios and form factors and price points to hit all those.

Tablets, I think are interesting and great, because I think they enlarge the overall opportunity. I think they are additive to the opportunity. Again, it reminds us that there are lots of interesting new scenarios that we are continuing to work on, and so we are excited by that.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: It looks like a really good start to Office, 8% business growth was the highest number I think you have seen in two years. Do you think business revenue growth can get to the same levels you saw with the previous Office cycle, where it reached north of 20%? Why wouldn't the annuity business for Office grow faster than low single digits in the heart of the cycle next year? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: I am not going to give guidance on business revenue, other than the driver framework that we gave. In terms of the annuity business, obviously, this is in terms of the deferred revenues that we have had the last year or year and a half has been slow, and so we are digging out of that hole or the recognitions that we have from the deferred revenue balance.

So in the course of this year we will be building that back up. As I said, we expect Q1 unearned revenue to also return to normal historical sequential patterns. So we feel good about the opportunity to continue to drive bookings with Office, but in terms of the annuity revenue recognized growth that is impacted by the billings that we saw over the course of the last year. But having said that, we are certainly very optimistic about business uptake of Office 2010.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, ISI.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI: I was wondering if you guys could talk about the decline in the consumer premium mix? And what percentage of the decline is related to emerging markets, and what are the other reasons, if that doesn't explain all of it?

PETER KLEIN: All of it. It is all related to the growth in emerging markets.

HEATHER BELLINI: That was easy then. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great quarter. I just wanted to have one question back on the Windows Division. If you look at that commercial and retail license line it still remained very strong year-over-year and even sequentially. Obviously, in the first part of the fiscal year that was driven by consumers upgrading to Windows 7. Just what are you seeing there?

Also, as we start to think about fiscal 11, obviously that doesn't include commercial licenses too. What would you expect for the impact of potentially enterprises upgrading to Windows 7 on top of the PC replacement cycle?

PETER KLEIN: It is great. We are very optimistic about that opportunity, but remember it is a small part of the business. It is about 20% of the business. So while there is great intent to deploy, and we are already seeing great deployment, so that is a little bit of a tailwind, but it is not by any stretch of the imagination a material mover of the business. But it is a nice attitude.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Two questions. Just first on the overall environment, you sound incredibly upbeat. You clearly had a very strong quarter. Was there any shift as you got towards the end of the quarter, because clearly others through earnings have started to note more weakness in Europe, for example, or government spending. So I would just love to get your perspective.

PETER KLEIN: We didn't really see any differences throughout the quarter. And we are encouraged. We had strong demand and strong sales execution, and obviously, did slightly better than we had hoped and talked about last quarter for our product set. So we are thrilled with customers adopting our products. And there was really no difference throughout the quarter.

SARAH FRIAR: So it sounds like with the product cycles your expectation is you can kick through even some slight decline on the macro side?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, we certainly feel really good about the traction of our product set, no doubt.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, you are continuing your strong expense discipline in the quarter. I'm just curious if you could talk about Cisco 11, and what really changes as we go into next year to continue that discipline? You did take your expense guidance down a little relative to your past guidance. Can you just explain what drove that?

PETER KLEIN: Yes, it is the same thing. This is an ongoing process, something we think about every day. And so continually as we go through, we are always scrubbing. We are always looking at our plans. We are always looking to make the most effective use of the money. As we have done that and we made progress, then we can lower our guidance, and that is just what we did. We did better in Q4 than we expected, and we are continuing to take that into next year. We will just focus on it continuously.

OPERATOR: Katherine Egbert, Jefferies.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Your contacted but not billed balance was up $1.5 billion this quarter. Can you tell us about that?

PETER KLEIN: As we said, it was a strong bookings quarter all up, if you look at the revenue and the unearned and then CMB. Our bookings growth was 27%, so it is reflective of the sales execution and the enterprise demand for our products.

It is interesting, Bill has touched on this, but it is very broad-based, across geographies and across products and across customer segments and size. So that is what is really driving that.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Will that continue to increase?

PETER KLEIN: You know, I would just -- we haven't gotten given guidance on that. We did give expectations on the unearned, so I would take that as a proxy for how things are going.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. Looking at the unearned balance for Server and Tools and MBD, it looks like it is back up to multi-quarter highs. Also, your unearned metric which you reported is well above what it has been -- the highest it has been in eight quarters. Yet at the same time the guidance for the annuity and growth rate, it still sounds like we are in a recession, listening to your guidance, what seems to be a lower mid-single digit.

Can you help us understand the disconnect here? It seems to me that you are being a little bit conservative with your annuity guidance for what seems to be two big product lines, given the improvement in bookings, off-balance sheet and on-balance sheet. So it occurs to me as the deferred revenues start to build up, in your words, in the normal seasonality, that you should take your guidance up in the next three quarters. So comments or reactions, explanation would be appreciated.

PETER KLEIN: What you are seeing is that as recognitions next year are a function of the deferreds that we have had. As you mentioned, this is the first quarter where we really bumped it up. So the recognitions in the annuity revenue that you are seeing next year in the reported number is a function of the challenges we have had on our deferred balance. So as we build up over time, you will start to see the annuity business fall through better.

So that is what you will see you as you get towards the latter part of next year, because this is the first quarter where we really saw that unearned balance kick off.

KASH RANGAN: So if deferreds continue to build up normal [seasonality-wise], we should expect you to take your guidance up for the annuity growth rate in your two main businesses, right?

PETER KLEIN: It is too early to tell. You should take the guidance that we gave as our guidance for FY '11.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Peter, in the slides on 18, it talks about COGS being negatively impacted next year. Based on the expectation of mid teen growth in E&D can you give us any sense of what the headwind is on the COGS side?

PETER KLEIN: What I tried to do is give you the drivers. And I think you should go through your model and think about what assumptions you're going to make. And clearly the assumptions -- the biggest one that we like to call out, that we think is most material by far, is the growth in E&D and the headwinds from the hardware sales, which is obviously a great thing for the long term, but in the short term will provide a headwind to COGS.

So the reason we like to give you the drivers, it allows you the flexibility to work that through your model as you come up with your product mix.

BRAD REBACK: I understand. Not to pick here, but you did put the mid teen guidance out there. So based on that there is no way to give us any sense of what type of headwind that generates, so we're all on the same page here?

PETER KLEIN: I would just say do the math. I think you will -- it will come out whatever your assumptions are for the driver framework. So let's move on to the next question.

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Caris & Company.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, CARIS & COMPANY: Peter, we are in the middle for our enterprise refresh, and premium mix for business edition has gone up from 28% to 29%. But if I look at the historical trend during the middle of enterprise refresh, actually you have been in mid to late 30s in terms of the business premium mix. Why has it only seen only 100 basis point improvement, or is there a time maybe next -- a few quarters where we can see it reaching to the historical level?

PETER KLEIN: I would say, one, it is early in the refresh cycle, so we should watch it. I think that really is the answer.

OPERATOR: Ed Maguire, CLSA.

ED MAGUIRE, ANALYST, CLSA: Last quarter you provided some metrics around your Online Services subscriptions. Could you provide some come, at least, directional indications? And help us understand as well some of the traction around Azure and how that may be impacting some of the traditional server revenues?

PETER KLEIN: As we talked about on the commercial -- the productivity Online Services, as Bill talked about, 70% of those wins have been competitive wins, which has just been really good. We are really accelerating the traction there.

On the Azure side, it is early. We just launched that this year. The productivity of Online Services are farther along from a customer perspective, but we have really accelerated the developers and the users we have on the Azure platform. It is not material to the financials now, but we are really establishing a leadership position of users.

We have had some -- on the productivity side we have had some great wins. We had the State of Kentucky, which is many, many -- 700,000 users. So acceleration and continued progress in leadership in that.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Cowen.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, COWEN: Just a follow-up on office 2010. Qualitatively, Peter, how are you thinking about consumer and enterprise adoption rates in the first 12 months or so post-release as compared with a similar period with regard to Office 2007?

PETER KLEIN: You should just take the guidance that we gave you. And on the non-annuity side we sort of expected to track PC shipments, which is a pretty strong result, especially given the mix of PCs to emerging markets, where we have slightly lower attach. So we will -- this quarter will be a big quarter. We will look at the back-to-school and see how you're doing, but other than that, we are very excited, off to a great start. As you saw, the 51% number is a very strong member for early on.

BILL KOEFOED: Barb, let's move on, let's make this the last question.

OPERATOR: Rob Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROB BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks for sneaking me in. Just quickly maybe as a follow-up to Greg's question, as you look at the PC shipments your expectations for Q1 are helpful. As we look at the trend in the second half of the year, would it be natural to assume after back-to-school, holiday season that we see a slight tail off? Can you just give us maybe a front half, kind of second half thought? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: We are not giving color on half by half. The one thing I would say that will continue all year is that emerging markets will continue to grow faster than developed markets, and that has an impact on our business.

ROB BREZA: Great. Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, so that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. We look forward to seeing many of you at the financial analyst meeting next week where we will provide more details about our long-term strategies, and provide you with a hands-on opportunity to experience our technology and engage in great discussions with our management team.

For those of you who are unable to attend in person, you will be able to follow the day from our Investor Relations website at Microsoft.com/msft. Please contact us if you need additional details. We sincerely hope to see there.

Thanks again for joining us today, and have a great day.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c314 : Pricing | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100805e67m002jr
  


 HD
 Q3  2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,637 words
   PD
22 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft third-quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. (Operator Instructions). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks everyone for joining us this afternoon. With me today are Peter Klein, Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today Peter will start with overall takeaways from the quarter. Then I will give you the details of our performance before handing it back to Peter, who will discuss our outlook. After that we will take your questions.

Please note we filed our Form 10-Q this afternoon. In addition we posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our remarks as well as provide a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. You can find these documents at the Microsoft investor relations website at Microsoft.com/MSFT.

Today's call will be webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, any future use of the recording, and in the transcript, which will be posted on our website.

You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until April 22, 2011.

This conference call is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this call or any portion of it without the expressed written permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could materially differ because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

Okay Peter, it's all yours.

PETER KLEIN, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon everyone. Our third-quarter results reflect our strong product momentum, continued focus on controlling costs, and the beginning stages of a return in business hardware spending.

This quarter we generated record third-quarter revenue and operating cash flow. In addition, as a result of revenue growth and our ongoing focus on cost management, when adjusting for the impact of the tech guarantee programs this year, we had our third consecutive quarter of year-over-year margin expansion.

Strong demand for Windows 7 is a primary contributor to our performance. As evidence of that strong demand, both internal and external checks show that over 10% of all PCs worldwide are already running Windows 7.

While reaching this level of penetration in six months qualifies Windows 7 as our fastest selling operating system ever, it also illustrates how much opportunity still remains. As I have met with investors, I've commented on the tremendous product momentum we have, which was evidenced this quarter across all our businesses.

Bing achieved 10 consecutive months of market share growth since its launch. And both the US Department of Justice and the European Commission cleared our search agreement with Yahoo! Azure, our cloud development platform, became commercially available in 41 countries. In the mobile space we announced Windows Phone 7 and Kin. And last Friday we released Office 2010 to manufacturing and are looking forward to its launch in June.

All of this was achieved while continuing to focus on managing costs and prioritizing our investments. As a result, we delivered operating income and earnings per share growth ahead of revenue growth, with earnings per share up 36% over last year. We also returned $3.1 billion of cash to investors through dividends and stock repurchases.

So in summary, I am pleased with our continuing performance this quarter. We had great momentum with current products in market, we have a very exciting pipeline of new products to come, and we continued to deliver strong financial results.

I'll now hand the call back to Bill to give you some additional details on the quarter, and then come back and provide some thoughts on our outlook for our fourth quarter and the next fiscal year.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks Peter. As I review this quarter's performance, keep in mind that all growth comparisons relate to the corresponding quarter of last year unless I specify otherwise.

As Peter said, we had another strong quarter. Overall, GAAP revenue grew 6% to $14.5 billion. During the quarter we deferred $305 million of revenue related to the Microsoft Office 2010 Technology Guarantee program. Adjusting for this amount, revenue would have been $14.8 billion, 8% growth over the prior-year period.

GAAP operating income grew 17% year-over-year, while EPS grew 36%.

Operating cash flow this quarter was $7.4 billion, an all-time record for the company.

Foreign exchange had a positive impact to revenue of about $200 million this quarter.

In terms of overall revenue mix, geographically emerging markets grew more than 20%, while mature markets grew mid-single digits.

While consumer demand continued to be strong, we saw renewed strength from small and midmarket customers with year-over-year growth of more than 15%.

Within the enterprise customer segment, we saw the beginning of a recovery in IT hardware spend, but as we've discussed on past calls, we continued to see lengthened sales cycles.

Enterprise agreement renewal rates, taking into consideration the extended sales cycles, are within our historical range.

Unearned revenue was $12.3 billion, down sequentially, as is typical, but better than last year's seasonal trend, and roughly flat year-over-year. Our unearned revenue balance would have been up more than $100 million or 1% year-over-year when considering the recognition of undelivered elements, primarily associated with our prior Windows XP sales and the revenue deferral from our Office 2010 Technology Guarantee program.

Multiyear annuity billings were up mid-single digits year over year.

This quarter's growth from volume licensing is beginning to offset the unearned revenue declines we have seen over the past several quarters as we rebuild our unearned balance.

Now for the PC market. Windows 7 and innovation from our OEM partners continued to fuel demand for PCs. We estimate the PC market grew roughly 25% year-over-year. Within that, we estimate consumer PCs grew almost 30%, while business PCs grew 14%. This quarter netbooks represented approximately 10% of the total PC market.

Let's move on to this quarter's performance by business group, beginning with the Windows & Windows Live divisions, which had another exceptional quarter. We continued to see very strong consumer demand for Windows, with consumer license growth up 35%. We also saw a return in demand for business PCs, with licenses up more than 15%, leading us to believe the business PC refresh cycle has begun.

OEM units increased 30% year-over-year and outpaced PC shipments. OEM revenue increased 29% for the second quarter in a row, and also outpaced the PC market.

As with prior quarters, we've included a slide that bridges the difference between the PC market growth and OEM revenue growth.

We experienced a 9 percentage point headwind, primarily caused by emerging markets outpacing mature markets, and consumer outpacing business.

Windows attach and inventory drove 8 percentage points of OEM revenue growth. Conditions from the prior quarter remained largely unchanged, with inventory exiting the quarter at normal levels.

Windows 7 upsell and channel dynamics drove 5 percentage points of OEM revenue growth, reflecting adoption of Windows 7 on netbooks and adoption of premium versions of Windows 7 on business and consumer PCs.

The commercial, retail, and online portion of the Windows division grew 26%, primarily driven by retail sales of Windows 7.

Now let's move to server and tools. We estimate server hardware shipments strengthened considerably, with year-over-year growth in the high teens. The OEM and license-only revenue, which represents 30% of the business, grew high single digits, an improvement from prior quarters. Within that, Windows Server revenue grew midteens, while SQL Server and developer tools experienced slower growth in front of new product launches.

Annuity revenue, which is approximately 50% of the business, was roughly flat.

Enterprise services grew 5%.

Our virtualization solutions continue to be strong. System Center Server revenue grew over 20%, and Windows Server Premium mix remains over 20% this year.

Additionally, our share of new x86 virtualization licenses, which includes Hyper-V and Virtual Server, is now 25%, up 3 points year over year in the December quarter, according to IDC.

We released to manufacturing Digital Studio 2010, announced a new partnership with Citrix that furthers our desktop virtualization offering, and yesterday we released to manufacturing SQL Server 2008 R2. Clearly there is very strong product pipeline in server and tools.

Now for the online services division. Online advertising revenue grew 19%, primarily driven by search, which outperforms the market. We continue to be enthused with Bing's momentum, which includes 10 consecutive months of share gains in the US. We ended the quarter with US query share of 11.7%, according to comScore, 340 basis points higher than when we launched Bing last May.

The Yahoo! search partnership implementation is underway, and we are working toward US completion by the end of this calendar year and global completion by early calendar year 2012.

Moving on to the Microsoft business division. In general, the conditions from last quarter remain unchanged. Revenue was down 6%, but when adjusted for the Office 2010 Technology Guarantee deferral of $305 million, revenue was up 1%.

Within MBD business revenue was down 1%.

As we have discussed previously, the non-annuity component of business revenue has been pressured in advance of the next product cycle, while annuity revenue was roughly flat.

Consumer revenue, which includes the OEM and retail portions of this business, increased 11% when adjusting for the Technology Guarantee and was primarily due to strong PC shipments.

Last Friday we released to manufacturing Office 2010 and SharePoint 2010. We expect commercial availability in May, with general availability in June.

With respect to the $305 million tech guarantee deferral, it's important to note that due to varying international availability and fulfillment dates, there will be puts and takes to the unearned revenue balance throughout Q4. However, the tech guarantee deferral balance is expected to remain roughly unchanged at the end of Q4. We expect that substantially all of the tech guarantee unearned revenue balance will be recognized in the second quarter of fiscal year 2011.

During the quarter we made terrific progress in our cloud offering. Customers such as Starbucks, McDonald's, GlaxoSmithKline, Coca-Cola Enterprises, Aviva, and Swedish Red Cross are all going to the cloud with Microsoft. We now have 40 million paid seats of our commercial online services. Clearly companies are choosing Microsoft for their cloud productivity solutions, and we intend to build on this momentum.

Now let's move on to the entertainment and devices division. Gaming revenue declined 4%, as we sold 1.5 million consoles, a unit decline of 12%, which was roughly in line with the overall market.

While our software attach rate continued to lead the industry at 8.8, first party software revenue declined, based on difficult comparisons to the prior-year launch of Halo Wars. This was substantially offset by the continuing strong revenue and membership growth of Xbox LIVE.

Non-gaming revenue was up 14%, reflecting growth in the PC hardware market and increased Windows embedded revenue.

As Peter mentioned, we continued to have good momentum on the product side for mobile. During the quarter we announced Windows Phone 7, and last week we announced Kin, which will be available in the US in May.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of goods sold decreased 2% to $2.8 billion, driven primarily by lower Xbox 360 volume and console costs. These savings were partially offset by increased traffic acquisition and online costs.

Operating expenses were $6.6 billion, as we continued to manage our expenses and prioritize our investment.

Headcount declined both year-over-year and sequentially.

D&A expenses grew due to contractual costs associated with our Yahoo! search partnership and legal expenses.

We repurchased $2 billion worth of shares and paid $1.1 billion of dividends.

So to wrap up, the consumer segment continued to drive great results. In addition, we saw the beginning of the business PC refresh. This, combined with our strong product pipeline and our continued focus on execution and cost management, means we are well-positioned for the future.

With that I'll hand it back to Peter, who is going to discuss our business outlook.

PETER KLEIN: Thanks Bill. Now I'll discuss our expectations for our fourth quarter and the next fiscal year.

From a macro perspective, we expect the next quarter to be similar to the third quarter, with continued strength in hardware shipments. We were encouraged by the recent uptick in business PC growth and expect that this business refresh cycle will continue over a couple of years.

Before I get into my commentary by division, remember that the June quarter is the close of our fiscal year. As such, it is historically a seasonal high for our enterprise sales. And we are entering it with a strong sales pipeline.

While we've noted early signs of improvement, the business spending environment and associated sales cycles remain challenging. We will be very focused on closing deals during the quarter, and we expect that unearned revenue will likely return to normal seasonal patterns.

Beginning with the Windows division, we expect revenue to grow slightly faster than the overall PC market in the fourth quarter. Attach, inventory and premium mix gain should more than offset macro trends, particularly that of emerging markets growing faster than mature markets.

Turning to the Microsoft business division, we are very excited about the launch of Office 2010 this June, as it will provide the best productivity experience across the PC, phone and browser. The combination of Office 2010, SharePoint 2010, Exchange 2010, and Office Communications Server will be the practical platform for IT, delivering anywhere access to your document and unmatched collaboration.

For the fourth quarter, consumer and business non-annuity revenue, approximately 40% of the total, should track towards PC shipment growth, while we expect annuity revenue to be up low single digits.

The server and tools business generally aligns with server hardware shipments and business IT spending. Similar to many observers, we expect server shipments to show healthy year-over-year growth.

In the fourth quarter we expect that non-annuity revenue should move generally in line with hardware shipments. Annuity revenue should grow mid single digits, while enterprise services revenue should grow low single digits.

For the online services division, the outlook for online advertising appears to be improving, and we expect the trends from the third quarter to continue. Excluding the impact of our legacy access business, revenue should be in line with or better than the market for the fourth quarter.

In the entertainment and devices division, we maintain our view expressed last earnings call that full-year revenue should be roughly flat relative to the prior year. This translates into a fairly robust growth rate for the fourth quarter, driven by the uplift from the strong PC market, increased gaming attach revenue, and momentum in Windows embedded.

Switching to costs, we continued to make good progress containing our cost of goods sold, despite the upward pressures of increased traffic acquisition costs in our search business and growth of our online services. As a result of our operational initiatives, improved Xbox 360 console costs, and a continuing favorable revenue mix, we now expect full-year gross margin to expand 1% compared to the prior year.

With regard to operating expenses, we remain focused on diligently managing our cost structure and aligning resources to key priorities. For the full year we are lowering our operating expense guidance, now expected to be between $26.1 billion and $26.3 billion.

We estimate that our capital spending for the year will be no more than $2 billion, and our effective tax rate should be approximately 25% for both the quarter and the year.

We will continue to generate strong free cash flow and will return capital to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases over the long run, though the amount of repurchases may vary from quarter to quarter.

Now I'd like to spend a few minutes looking ahead to fiscal year 2011, with more details to follow at our financial analyst meeting in July.

From a macro perspective, we expect the business refresh cycle that I referenced earlier will continue through fiscal year 2011. This, combined with strong momentum from Windows 7 and the launches of Office 2010, SharePoint 2010, and SQL Server 2008 R2, will be significant revenue drivers for our core businesses.

Switching to online, we expect the online advertising market to be better than fiscal year 2010. Our business should continue to grow faster than the market, excluding our legacy access business, which will be less of a headwind as it becomes a smaller portion of the mix.

We expect our partnership with Yahoo! will begin to contribute to our revenue in the second half of that fiscal year.

Lastly, the entertainment and devices division will be introducing an unprecedented wave of innovation in the first half of the year, including Natal and its launch title, as well as Halo Reach, Stable 3, and Windows Phone 7.

Now moving to cost of goods sold. It's important to consider the shift of revenue mix across software, services and hardware. While there are a number of factors to weigh for next year, the single largest variable driving cost of goods sold will be hardware demand in the Xbox business. Additionally, we will continue to pursue operational efficiency, as we have throughout this year.

Switching to operating expenses, we are currently working through our budgeting process and maintain our outlook of $27.0 billion to $27.5 billion.

All of this will allow us to continue to generate exceptional operating cash flow, which we will continue to return to shareholders through dividends and stock repurchases.

So in summary, we delivered very good financial results for the quarter, with strong demand for Windows 7 driving revenue growth, and solid cost management enabling operating income and earnings per share to grow even faster.

As we look forward we are encouraged by improving market conditions taking shape as we continue to launch our strongest wave of products in the company's history.

With that, I'll turn the call over to Bill and answer some of your questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks Peter. We want to get to questions from as many of you as possible, so please stick to one question and avoid long or multipart questions.

Barb, can you please go ahead and repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Heather Bellini, ISI.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI: I was wondering if you could talk about your comment about a return to normal seasonality in unearned revenue. I guess what I'm wondering is, we had the tech guarantee benefit Q3 deferred, so when we are looking, if normal seasonality were to happen in Q4, are we taking the Q3 ending balance and thinking about it that way? Or should we be thinking about adjustments for the tech guarantee? Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Yes. Take it as it is.

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Walter Pritchard, Citigroup.

WALTER PRITCHARD, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Could you guys talk about on the server side, it looks like non-annuity revenue grew a little bit slower than server units. And I guess you're seeing an uplift in version mix there, which should be helping the situation. Just curious to get some more detail on that, as well as what you think we should see looking forward into June and beyond.

PETER KLEIN: Yes. You have to break it down in [sections]. You have to break it down into its components. There's actually two pieces of the non-annuity business or the transactional business, the Windows Server piece and then the other pieces of the business.

The Windows Server non-annuity piece actually grew midteens, so tracked towards the hardware market. The other products, things like SQL Server and Visual Studio, grew slower than that in anticipation of a product release (technical difficulty) coming out. So it tends to be less correlated, particularly in quarters where there is a significant growth year over year. So that was the issue there.

In terms of looking forward, I think we gave the guidance on what we expect for the transactional business, particularly as we launch Visual Studio and SQL Server, tracking more towards the server hardware market.

WALTER PRITCHARD: Great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: My question is about Office. As we near the release, I was hoping you could talk to us about how you're thinking about what the impact should be, what you think about with respect to the average selling price opportunity around Office, and in particular also, you mentioned transactional revenue for the next quarter. Should we assume that transactional revenue continues to accelerate as we get deeper into the Office cycle? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Let me take your last question first. Certainly as we've said, we expect the largest part of the impact from the launch actually to happen in fiscal year '11. So typically what you'd see -- since we are launching it in the May/June time frame, typically what you'd see is several quarters after that the impact of that. So you should see that in the first half of fiscal year '11.

It terms of average selling price, it's a little hard to talk about that now. It's going to be a function of obviously mix, but I would just think about it the way the Office 2007 launch was.

The one thing I would add to that, where you will see it is in the platform side of the business. So when you see the enterprise [CAL] and how we monetize the enterprise versions of the productivity infrastructure for SharePoint on Exchange is where you'll see opportunities for overall revenue growth from an ASP perspective, for [MBDL] up.

ADAM HOLT: Terrific, thank you.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Peter, on the cost side you highlighted this great expansion that you've seen as you've -- you're starting to reap the benefits of those cost controls that you took a few -- about a year ago. As you look out to Q4, your guidance would suggest actually a sequential decline in the operating margin, and yet you should be hitting pretty strong product cycles still on Windows and Office beginning to come into the mix. Why wouldn't we get more margin expansion in Q4? And then as you look at fiscal '11 costs, what are the puts and takes of why costs go up versus what other measures you can do to keep them down?

PETER KLEIN: The biggest thing driving the Q4 expenses is revenue driven expenses that are associated with primarily our enterprise annuity business, which are going to be up a fair amount, both sequentially and year-over-year. So that's the biggest thing you will see in Q4.

The other thing you'll see in Q4 is, as I talked about, the wave of product launches that we've got coming, including Office 2010 and SQL Server. So it's just -- what's happening this quarter is sort of -- not unique, but those are the things that are really driving what you're seeing in Q4.

And of course those have been embedded in our guidance all year long, and the fact of the matter is, we've been -- in trying to manage our costs as softly as possible and bring it down whenever we can, which we did this quarter.

The dynamics in FY '11, as you note, there's a lot of puts and takes, and we're always prioritizing and aligning our investments. But all up, you should think the things that are driving it are similar. There's some revenue-driven as we continue to grow revenue, and there's also some sales and marketing associated with some key launches that we will have, particularly in the first half of the year related to the consumer businesses, like Natal and phone. And I would say, keep in mind that is a pretty measured increase of only 3% to 5% for the full year.

SARAH FRIAR: Great, thanks for the color.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, UBS.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, UBS: Peter, considering the strength of the product cycle and the uptick we are seeing in corporate spend, it's still surprising to hear about lengthening sales cycles, and I think the unearned was below the Street estimates. What are customers citing the reasons why they are not pre-signing up? Are they just waiting for all these products to be launched before they're renewing? Or are they -- just trying to get our hands around what you're hearing from the customer base.

PETER KLEIN: There's a couple of things. One, that is true, particularly when there's so many products that are launching, so there's a bunch of revenue that's going to come through on the non-annuity side that people are waiting for launches for.

And I do think that hardware -- if you think about what's happened over the last year, the first thing that got hit and decreased earliest and fastest was hardware, and that's what's coming back first. I think that over time, as we've been saying -- and I think most other people are saying -- over the course of calendar 2010 and certainly into 2011 you'll start to see the growth in the overall IT spend.

For us in particular, from a sales cycle perspective, Q4 is just seasonally our biggest quarter. So when you combine the sales cycle and the product cycle, kind of converging on Q4 and beyond, as well as where we are I think in the stage of what businesses are doing in terms of first refreshing their hardware, that kind of converges over the next two or three quarters probably.

BRENT THILL: Thanks.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Peter, I have a question on the Windows business. It looks like on slide 11 you've got about 8% benefit from the Windows attach and inventory, and I am assuming that's from less piracy and then inventory build in the channel.

You also got about -- I think it was 10% last quarter. Now this is the second quarter into a new launch of Windows 7. I'm just curious -- how sustainable is that? I would assume that piracy -- there is going to be less during a -- on a launch even pirates have to buy legitimate copies at least for a while.

And then also the inventory build in the OEM channel, I assume that would start to wane. If that happens, would you expect that benefit to start to wane here? And if it does, should we be thinking that the segment mix lineup above that with a corporate refresh cycle that sounds like it's going to happen in the second half, that should start -- you'd start to see less of a negative hit in that line? Or how should we be thinking about this?

PETER KLEIN: Well, it's a great question. You're thinking about all of the right components of it. And certainly attach and piracy are always going to sort of cycle up and down, depending on where you are. We're working through this year sort of a work-down of the inventory from last year. And we are still working that. We're at sort of normal inventory levels. That's been a good year-over-year thing for us.

And attach -- correct -- is -- part of that is piracy related to the launch of Windows 7.

All of those things -- so we've given you specific color for Q4, what to expect for the OEM business relative to the PC business.

BILL KOEFOED: Can I just add one thing?

PETER KLEIN: Yes.

BILL KOEFOED: The other thing is just there's an overall -- I think we talked about it on prior calls -- an overall secular change, which is the multinational OEMs are becoming a more significant portion of the total PC market. And that does good things for our attach relative to the prior mix of our revenue from different PC manufacturers.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Just to -- does that mean that you are seeing a little less piracy and you expect to see that in some international markets?

PETER KLEIN: We are seeing that globally.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Good quarter. Peter, you guys have talked about in the last few quarters seeing a pretty significant uplift in Windows revenue from the retail channel. Essentially consumers going out to the store to upgrade to Windows 7. When you compare what you believe is sort of the corporate upgrade opportunity to be to what you've seen over the past couple of quarters to consumer, which one is the larger of the two? And when would you expect to see the corporate side begin? Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Well, just in sheer numbers in terms of PC shipments, the consumer is a lot bigger than the business segment. Now, the impact you get from the business segment obviously is some ASP uplift.

We are starting to -- and you get the corporate refresh in two ways. You can get sort of volume licensing upgrades or you can get an OEM when they buy the PCs, which is the largest piece of the revenue. And that's what we started to see happen, and you saw some of that impact this quarter with business PC shipments up 14%. That's the sort of -- this is sort of the shape of the opportunity going forward as that continues, and you can see that has an uplift on our OEM revenue relative to the overall PC market.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: I just wanted you to talk a little bit more about the deferred revenue trajectory going into Q4. It looks like this year compared to the start of the year deferred revenue long-term [or] short-term is down a lot, more than what it has been the past few fiscal years. So that would argue for a bigger than seasonal catch-up in Q4. So maybe you could talk about what is embedded in your expectations and what do you expect on the ELA side. And also, I think you've talked about book but not build -- portion of your bookings. So if you could just give us some color on how that is shaping up, that would be great. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: Just in terms of the numbers, what we -- sort of the guidance that we said, it's we are looking for sequential increase in Q4 in a similar range that you've seen over the last three, four, five years, the sequential growth. We are starting to rebuild the balance. You started to see that happen a little bit in Q3 with our multiyear annuity billing having positive growth. So I think that's sort of the essence of what we are expecting and what we are guiding to.

What was your second question?

KASH RANGAN: The book but not build portion on the balance -- that you would talk about that in your presentations in prior times, but just noted that we've not been talking about that in recent times. Just wondering if you have an update there.

PETER KLEIN: I think that's actually a good thing that we'll talk about in July on the Q4 call, just because it's such a bigger issue, the seasonality in terms of our bookings in Q4 is so much more material than in Q3, I think that's a -- that's when we will talk about that.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: So Peter, just switching gears back to server and tools, as I look back at my notes from last quarter, I think you guys talked about the annuity business being up mid-single digits. I think it came in flat this quarter. Given my understanding that most of that is coming off the balance sheet, what would have caused that delta in that three-month period?

PETER KLEIN: The comment was for H2, not for Q3 -- up mid-single digits. So if you look at our guidance again with the seasonality of our sales cycle, most of that comes from Q4, which was in our guidance that we gave today.

BRAD REBACK: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Katherine Egbert, Jefferies & Co.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES: Speaking of guidance, there's a lot of moving parts right now, multiple product cycles, revenue deferrals, and economic recovery. What are you looking for to become comfortable with providing more specific guidance? What are the triggers?

PETER KLEIN: I'm not sure there are specific triggers. I [actually] (technical difficulty) having a driver-based framework and having a really good qualitative discussion about all the factors that drive it is actually a great way to talk about the outlook and the environment and what we are seeing for our businesses. And so I think there is no specific triggers that are going to change that. I think the dialogue that we are having around these drivers and the framework is great.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Peter, you talked about next year gross margins obviously having an impact from the hardware cycle. In the past at times you've talked about as you change to more cloud computing those taking a hit as well. Can you give us any range? Could we see as much as 2 percentage points in change there next year?

PETER KLEIN: We are not giving a range on that now. We'll definitely talk about that at the financial analyst meeting in July.

OPERATOR: Rob Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROB BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Peter, just maybe as a follow-up to Brendan's question, you called out in your prepared remarks the 40 million paid seats for the cloud initiative. I was wondering if you could talk about where you're seeing the strength there and how we might expect that to be 12 months from now. Thanks.

PETER KLEIN: We are seeing strength across a variety of our areas. You heard Bill talk about all the great customers we have on (technical difficulty) our commercial online services like SharePoint Online and Exchange Online. That's obviously a big growth area for us.

The 40 million comes from things like Live Meeting and Exchange Hosted Services and CRM Online. And so what you're seeing is really part of our strategy, so the broadest array of commercial services for businesses of all sizes.

Some of these are really aimed more at midmarket customers, some are aimed more at big enterprise customers. And we are getting growth from both.

And then the last thing that we sort of touched on but didn't talk about in great detail was Azure, which is now available in 41 countries, and what that will do really over the next couple of years.

BILL KOEFOED: We've got time for just one more question.

OPERATOR: Tim Klasell, Thomas Weisel Partners.

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: A question about the Windows 7 upgrade cycle. It appears to us that a lot of customers are going to attach a Windows 7 upgrade with maybe a Server 2008 R2 upgrade. Are you sensing that? And could that maybe delay the Windows 7 upgrade cycle a little bit more than we normally would but have the positive impact of pulling along some server sales as well?

PETER KLEIN: We really haven't seen that at all. As a matter of fact, when we talk to our enterprise customers, there is a high degree of intent to deploy Windows 7 as soon as possible. There's a -- many, many -- a high percentage of our customers are already either in pilot or prelaunch mode for deploying Windows 7. So I think we haven't seen that as a phenomenon at all, people waiting for Windows 7. In fact we see the opposite, that people are deploying it rather quickly.

TIM KLASELL: Great, thank you.

PETER KLEIN: So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Remember that you can access this call on the Microsoft investor relations website at Microsoft.com/MSFT. Please keep in mind that we will be at a number of conferences in the next couple of months. We will be at the JPMorgan conference in May, the Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch conference, the Cowen conference, the RBC and UBS conferences in June. In addition we will be previewing Natal at E3 in LA in June. Please contact Microsoft investor relations if you need additional details. We hope to see you there.

Thanks again for joining us, and have a great day.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | cdagr : Distribution Agreements | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c32 : Advertising | c15 : Performance | c31 : Marketing | c33 : Contracts/Orders | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100506e64m002e6
  


 HD
 Q1  2010 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
8,309 words
   PD
23 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft first quarter fiscal year 2010 earnings conference call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. (Operator instructions). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

   TD
BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Barb, and thanks, everyone, for joining us this morning. As you know, yesterday was a significant day in Microsoft with the launch of Windows 7 and Windows Server 2008 R2. We hope that you were able to see and participate in some of the exciting launch activities held around the globe.

As usual, here with me are Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today, Chris will start with takeaways from the first quarter of our 2010 fiscal year. Then I'll get into the details of the quarter before handing it back to Chris, who will discuss our business outlook. After that we'll take your questions.

We filed our Form 10-Q this morning. In addition, we posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks as well as provide a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. You can find these documents at the investor relations website at Microsoft.com/MSFT.

Today's call will be webcast live and recorded. If you ask a question, it will be included in our live transmission, any future use of the recording and in the transcript which will be posted on our website. You can replay the call and view the transcript at the Microsoft investor relations website until October 23, 2010. This call is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this call or any portion of it without the express written permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors section of our Form 10-K, Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.

I want to point out one last thing before I turn the call over to Chris. With the recent move of Windows Live, we changed the name of Client division to the Windows and Windows Live division. During the call we will refer to this business as the Windows division.

Okay, Chris, the call is yours.

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO AND SVP, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill, and good morning, everyone. The results for the first quarter were strong, particularly on an adjusted earnings per share basis, primarily as a result of two main factors -- consumer demand for our Windows and Xbox products combined with excellent cost controls. This result was achieved despite relative weakness in business spending, which has yet to see a broad-based recovery.

Having said that, it is showing signs of stabilization at lower levels. And, while it is too early to tell, the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009 may well have been the bottom of the economic reset.

Looking at the broader picture, at our final analyst meeting in July, I articulated our approach to what we described as the new normal around five major shareholder value strategies -- maximizing cash flow, streamlining our cost structure, driving operational excellence, capturing market share and investing in innovation. I'm very happy with our progress of each of those five strategies during the quarter. For example, operating cash flow was $6.1 billion in the quarter, which is a terrific result, given the economic conditions are still challenging. We resumed our share buyback program with 1.4 billion of shares repurchased in the quarter, retained our $0.13 a share dividend and built our net cash and investment balance to over $33 billion.

During the quarter we also continued to focus on our long-term cost structure. We realized a 10% decrease in operating expenses over the prior year, due to a lower number of people employed, lower cost per person, lower vendor spend and lower marketing costs.

Our headcount at the end of the quarter was 4% lower than the same time last year, the first time that a reduction of that significance has been achieved in the Company's history.

Over the last three months we have continued to show great operational excellence with not only the successful launch of Windows 7 but also the Windows Server 2008 R2 global launch yesterday and the recent release to manufacturing of Exchange 2010.

And market share, while it's very early days, we are very happy with the progress of our search engine, Bing, and other notable accomplishments during the quarter include the continued gains in Windows Server, System Center Management Tools and Xbox LIVE.

Despite the focused on costs, we have continued to invest in innovation, and this year, to name a few, we will release Windows Azure, SharePoint 2010, SQL Server 2008 R2, Office 2010, and continue to deliver innovations in Bing.

So, in summary, I'm very happy with both the short-term quarterly financial results and our progress on the factors that we believe will drive long-term success.

So with that, I'll provide more color on our outlook after Bill gives you some additional detail on the quarter.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Chris. I'll start with the Company's overview and then go through revenue performance for each of our business units. All of my comments are adjusted for the $1.5 billion of revenue deferred this quarter from both the Windows 7 Upgrade program and Windows 7 licenses sold in advance of general availability. Keep in mind that this is a non-GAAP view and all GAAP/non-GAAP reconciliations can be found in our slide deck. All growth comparisons relate to the corresponding quarter of last year, unless I specify otherwise.

Overall, revenue was down 4% because of continued weakness in global demand, especially in the Business segment. This was a positive result considering the macroeconomic environment, and as Chris noted earlier, we were pleased with the strength of consumer demand, particularly for our Windows and Xbox products.

Foreign exchange headwinds had a $233 million, or about a 2 percentage point impact in the first quarter. This quarter our product billing mix was roughly 35% annuity, 30% OEM and 25% license-only, with the balance coming from our other businesses. Enterprise agreement renewals were in line with our expectations, and our multi-year annuity revenue grew low-single digits, in line with our outlook last quarter.

In terms of geographic mix, revenue in the US, driven primarily by consumer demand, was relatively strong compared with other regions. Unearned revenue, again adjusted for Windows 7, was down $13 billion, down slightly from last year. Our contracted/not billed balance was over $13 billion, in line with last year.

Now let's move onto our thoughts on the PC market. PC hardware demand improved significantly. On a sequential basis, we estimate the PC market was up mid-teens. Year over year we estimate the market grew 0% to 2%. We estimate consumer PCs grew mid-single digits from last year, primarily due to growth in netbooks. This quarter netbooks represented about 12% of the total PC market, similar to the mix last quarter, and represented significant growth over the prior year.

Business PCs declined high single digits year-over-year but were up sequentially.

Now, with that backdrop, let's move onto the revenue and business drivers by segment, beginning with the Windows division. Overall, OEM unit sales increased 6% from last year, several points over the PC market, due to higher attach and some inventory builds in advance of the Windows 7 launch.

At our financial analyst meeting in July, Steve shared with you a slide that bridged the change in the PC market to OEM revenue growth. We have included the first-quarter bridge in our slide deck. To start, OEM revenues decreased 6% from last year. Changes in segment mix represented a 7% decline in OEM revenue from the prior year. This was due to the PC market dynamics I discussed earlier, including continued growth in netbooks and the overall higher mix of consumer PCs versus business PCs.

Windows attach and inventory represented a 4% increase. Attach rates increased year-over-year due to strong attach gains on netbooks and a continued shift to multinational OEMs, which reduce piracy. Other items represented a 3% decrease due to the shift toward multinational OEMs and the wind-down of Windows XP revenue deferral.

The commercial, retail and online portion of the Windows division was up 2%, primarily driven by presales of Windows 7.

Now let me touch on some sequential trends. On a sequential basis OEM units increased 19% or about 3 percentage points faster than the overall PC market. OEM revenue, meanwhile, decreased to 20% sequentially; and, as you can see, exceeded OEM unit growth. To put the quarter results in perspective, Q1 represented the highest number of Windows licenses sold in one quarter ever, and September was the highest single month of Windows unit sales ever.

In summary, it was a very solid quarter for the Windows division, and with Windows 7, we have a great product for the recovering PC market.

Now let's move to Server and Tools. In general, the conditions from the fourth quarter remain unchanged. We had a strong attach of Windows Server, SQL Server and System Center. As a result, our license-only and OEM business declined less than the 20% drop estimated for the underlying x86 server hardware market. Annuity revenue was up single digits, in line with the outlook we gave last quarter. FX rate changes were a 2-percentage-point head wind to revenue.

As I mentioned earlier, we launched Windows Server 2008 R2 to the market yesterday. We believe the virtualization and management capabilities offered are currently the best value in the marketplace, and we are excited by the enterprise enthusiasm for this product.

Moving on to the Online Services Divison, online advertising revenue was down 3% but included a 3-point FX headwind. While we experienced continued growth in page views, display revenue was weighed down by industry-wide year-over-year declines in advertising rates. On a sequential basis, however, rates seem to be stabilizing.

In the US search revenue was up mid-single digits despite industry-wide monetization declines in the quarter. We continue to make search share gains with Bing, with share in the US up every month since the June release. In July we signed a commercial agreement with Yahoo to further gain scale and momentum in the search business. We are working through the regulatory review process and continue to be hopeful the deal will be approved early in calendar 2010.

In addition, earlier this week we announced strategic partners with Facebook and Twitter. These partnerships demonstrate our continued search innovation and specifically with social media and real-time content.

Moving on, Microsoft Business Division revenue was down 11% due to declines in both business and consumer spending. FX rate changes were 2 percentage-point head wind to revenue. Business revenue was down 4%, reflecting weak Business PC sales. Within that, annuity revenue was up low-single digits, in line with the outlook we provided last quarter, while license-only sales declined over 20%.

Consumer revenue, which includes the OEM and retail portions of this business, declined 34%, driven by tough inventory comps over last year due to prior-year pricing promotions and lower attach from the continuing shift to lower-priced PCs I discussed in my Windows division commentary. Within MBG, we continued to see double-digit growth in our SharePoint, Office Communications Server and CRM products.

In the Entertainment and Devices division, while console revenue was impacted by price cuts and volume decline, overall gaming revenue was up almost $100 million. Halo 3: ODST was the number-one selling console title in the US last month, along with five other Xbox 360 games in the top 10.

With a worldwide installed base of almost 34 million consoles, Xbox 360 continues to lead the industry with an 8.7 software title attach rate. Xbox LIVE also contributed strongly to the quarter's performance with revenue growth in excess of 50%. We believe consumers will be excited by the richer multimedia enhancements and integration with social networks that we are delivering this fall.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of revenue was flat at $2.8 billion, driven by increased search distribution and online costs, which were offset by lower Xbox 360 console costs and service and support costs. Operating expenses decreased 10% to $5.6 billion, driven by reductions in headcount, headcount-related expenses and vendor costs.

Diluted shares outstanding were about 9 billion, down 2% from the prior year. This quarter we repurchased $1.4 billion worth of shares and paid $1.2 billion of dividends. Adjusted earnings per share was $0.52, and an 8% increase from the prior year. Cash flow from operations was $6.1 billion.

So, to wrap up, while business spending and the macroeconomic environment remained challenging, the consumer segment performed better than expected, and Windows 7 is off to a great start. And we feel terrific about our execution this quarter.

With that I'll hand it back to Chris, who is going to discuss our business outlook.

CHRIS LIDDELL: The remainder of this call I'll discuss our expectations for the second quarter and the remainder of fiscal 2010, starting with our assumptions for the industry.

Overall, the corporate IT spending trends we discussed in July remain intact. In our conversations with CIOs, many remain cautious about existing budgets and spending through the end of this calendar year. However, we believe calendar 2010 has the potential for improvement.

Given the industry backdrop, we are extremely well-positioned, due to the strongest product cycle in our Company's history and also continue to believe that we exit the economic reset a much stronger, more focused and cost-efficient company.

Turning to segment expectations, in the second quarter we expected the Windows division revenue, excluding the impact of the Windows 7 upgrade program, to be in line with overall PC market growth. With the launch of Windows 7, we expect inventory to rebuild in the channel and an increase in retail sales. This should offset the three hardware trends we've seen in recent quarters, which are netbooks growing faster than non-netbook PCs, consumer PCs growing faster than business PCs and emerging markets growing faster than developed markets.

In the second quarter we expect to recognize virtually all of the $1.7 billion of Windows 7 upgrade revenue deferrals from the last two quarters. For the balance of the fiscal tear we expect Windows division revenue to remain in line with or slightly ahead of the overall PC market growth, with the main variable being the pace of business PC improvement. We see the potential for a corporate PC refresh cycle beginning in calendar year 2010, although it could be gradual and occur over a couple of years.

We also expect the netbook mix to stabilize over the course of the year.

In the second quarter we expect Microsoft Business Division dynamics and revenue trends to be largely the same as they were in the first quarter, with growth lagging PC shipments, due to the factors Bill mentioned in his commentary. For the full year, the consumer and business non-annuity revenue, approximately 40% of the titles, should face the same trends as in the second quarter with increasing pressure in advance of the next product cycle, and as such could continue to lag PC shipments. We continue to expect annuity revenue, representing 60% of the total, to be broadly flat for the full year. As I called out last quarter, MBD results should improve when we start to see business spending recover, combined with the impact of Office 2010.

The Server and Tools business is most closely aligned to enterprise spend. We expect the server shipment trend to gradually start to improve towards the end of our fiscal year. We expect non-annuity revenue, which is approximately 35% of the total, to move generally in line with server shipments for the quarter and the year, and annuity revenue will be mid-single digits while services should be flat for the year.

In the Entertainment and Devices Division, although we realized upside from our third-party gains in the first quarter, remember, we did release two significant titles in the second quarter of last year, which should cause difficult year-over-year comparisons. We therefore expect E&D revenue to decline several points in the second quarter, but we expect the full year revenue to be roughly flat as price cuts taken in August are offset by attached revenue and a larger console installed base.

Turning to cost of goods sold, driving cost out of our operations plus a more favorable revenue mix resulted in a better performance for the year, and we now expect COGS as a percentage of revenue to increase only 1 point this year compared to the 2 that we just discussed at last call.

With operating expenses, we also continue to make excellent progress. We're lowering our guidance for the full year to a range of $26.2 billion to $26.5 billion, down from what we said in July. This decrease, however, also absorbed an additional $100 million to $200 million of Yahoo! integration costs, should the deal pass regulatory review. We will continue to look for additional cost savings opportunities both in cost of goods sold and in operating expenses through the rest of the fiscal year.

We expect CapEx to be, at most, $2 billion for the year, and the tax rate to be 25%.

So, in summary, I feel great about how we are executing, given the economic reset that we've been through. We are driving excellent cash flow, product innovation and continued cost discipline. More importantly, our strategies will position us to take advantage of a recovering economy, which we hope to begin in the next calendar year. The ensuing revenue growth, combined with continuing cost discipline, will set us up for long-term earnings per share growth and a significant return of shareholder value.

So with that, let me take your questions, and I'll hand back to Bill.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Chris. We want to get to as many questions as possible from you, so please stick to one question and avoid long or multi-part questions. Operator, please go ahead and repeat your instructions.

OPERATOR: (Operator instructions) Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning and congratulations on the quarter. My question is about average selling prices for Windows. You actually saw premium mix increase sequentially. I was wondering, where do you think premium mix can go as you get deeper into the Windows 7 cycle, and when would you expect average selling prices to actually start to be additive to the Windows revenue story?

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of the premium mix, clearly that's going to change with the SKU structure that we have in Windows 7. And I think we'll start to see a bit of -- in terms of that statistic, a better number going forward, simply because we won't have Home Basic in the developed markets. So that's -- we are going to see a much better Home premium mix.

In terms of how that feeds through the financials, which I think is the main point, we'll start to see it improve better. But in particular, we'll start to see it better when we get a bit of Business PC mix. And to date, we've been clearly seeing a headwind in that, and hopefully, next year as we start to see a business PC refresh cycle, we'll start to see a better mix there.

But that average selling price, which in the last year has been probably a negative, I would expect to turn neutral or even slightly positive as we go through the year.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, JP Morgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Chris, it looks like you saw some benefit from channel inventory build this quarter after three quarters of I think it was a net negative contribution in the last three. You mentioned you expect inventory to build in the channel, I think, going forward here. I'm just curious. How much more is there before we start to get to what you might consider to be sort of, I guess, quote, normal inventory, if there was such a thing? Do we have another quarter or another couple of quarters? Is this something that could be a net positive for, I don't know, the next few quarters?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes; I think it will be a net positive throughout the year simply because channel inventory builds. And then, even if it just stays at that level, it will be positive relative to a low level that was throughout last year. So we don't need to see any additional build from what we saw, for it to be a year-on-year mathematical benefit.

So I think it's going to be a benefit right through the year. Whether it continues to get even better again, we'll see. And that's going to depend, clearly, on the demand that OEMs to see through the Christmas period.

What we saw -- and you are certainly right; it was, last year as the economy contracted, people clearly reduced the amount of inventory we had, so we not only had lower demand, we had lower inventory holdings. We saw that reverse in the first quarter, but we've only got back to what I'd describe as normal levels. We haven't got an excess of inventory in the channel, although clearly depending on demand. So we've got back to a normal level. If we stick at that, it will be a year-over-year benefit. If we get good sales and good sell-through of Windows 7-based PCs, which were expecting, we could see some additional channel build as well.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning and good quarter. Just to switch gears a little over onto online services, you talked a little bit about the timing of the Yahoo! transaction and the expectation that the cost is in the cost guidance you've given. Can you give us any color, Chris, on what you're expecting on the top line add for Yahoo! and then any other kind of one-off costs? I know that Steve had mentioned a few, way back on the Yahoo! call.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. The $100 million to $200 million that I mentioned in my commentary is the cost, and that includes all the -- what I've described as one-off costs. There's setup costs in anticipation of migrating over. So that would be the total, and that will clearly depend on when we get regulatory review, assuming that we do, and how quickly we can implement. So there is a range there.

On the revenue side, there will be virtually no revenue contribution this fiscal year, so all of those costs will be, if you like, one-off startup costs that we will incur this year in anticipation of a revenue contribution in fiscal year '11.

SARAH FRIAR: And fiscal year '11 -- I know you are not guiding for it, but just to put some boundaries around it, what sort of size are you thinking about for Yahoo! right now? We see it at about a $360 million type contribution, based on what they have been doing.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes (multiple speakers)

SARAH FRIAR: -- put on the spot (multiple speakers).

CHRIS LIDDELL: That's much more exact than I'd give on the call. It will be hundreds of millions, but it's not going to be more than that or less than that, so you are in the right order of magnitude. I can't give you anything more specific than that on this call.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Chris, on the last call, on the COGS side of the equation, you talked about undertaking an internal program to focus on driving down cost. Obviously, some of that is showing up here in the guidance going forward. Can you give us a sense of how far through you are with that program and if there's meaningful gains to be had from this point forward?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Certainly, in the cost of goods sold area, I see that really as a journey that never ends. So that's something that we're going to focus on year after year after year now, and certainly in good manufacturing discipline a lot of it is manufacturing hardware COGS. That's the sort of approach you should take. So I don't -- certainly, we've embarked on a project which has made some significant difference in the short term. And you are right; we are starting to see some benefit of that feeding through this fiscal year. So I'm really happy with the progress that we have made, but that's not going to be a one-off where we just do it this year and then we stop. That's going to be something that we will look to continue the disciplines that we've brought in place in the last six to nine months.

So definitely getting some short-term benefit. Definitely, you will get some this year. I wouldn't promise a lot more than we are starting to guide to because I think we are fairly accurate on what we are likely to achieve this year. But I'd like to think that's a program that we can perpetuate next year and the year after, and really in perpetuity there afterwards.

OPERATOR: Phil Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a question on the Server and Tools division. Clearly, those are tied to server shipments. But as you look out over the next couple of quarters and with your commentary on just general enterprise spending, when do you think we could actually start to see the inflection point in that line item? And how should we think about the services component of that division, too, relative to the license as well?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'll stick to external forecasts on the underlying server demand. Most of the external forecasts are seeing it to improve from around now through to next year. So we would expect -- and we subscribe to that. We would expect it to get less negative as the year goes on and start to improve through next calendar year.

The benefit we're seeing there is mainly, like, in market share. So we've got great attach relative to the server market. So as it starts to improve, we would see the non-annuity component of our revenue start to improve as well. So that should be an evolving trend through the rest of this fiscal year going into next calendar year.

How quickly that will happen, we'll see. I think we are all waiting to see how well the economy rebounds when it does. We are still, as I was at the July financial analyst meeting, still on the relatively conservative side. We are not seeing a large rebound, but we'd like to think, certainly as we go into next calendar year, we'll start to see businesses spending again. And we'll be raised with that, with good attach.

On the services side, it's going to be pretty flat. I wouldn't expect that to bounce back quickly. So a flattish expectation on the services side, certainly through the rest of this fiscal year and going into the next one, would be my starting point.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Chris and the rest of his team, I was just wondering, what are you hearing from corporates? We have been spending some time talking to large corporates that are deploying Windows 7. It looks like the deployment plans are coming in a little bit earlier than expectations, at least from their standpoint, hearing of the business benefits of deploying Windows 7.

I'm just curious, what are you hearing about the upgrade cycle for Windows 7 in the corporate, because I would imagine that's got a pretty significant implication for your business premium mix going into next year because all of the lift you are getting in the near-term seems to be from the consumer side.

And also, secondarily, wondering if you can comment on the shrink-wrap business, pre-orders from consumer channel, for Windows 7.

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the business side, you are right; anecdotal feedback is certainly good at this stage from corporates in terms of their reaction to Windows 7 and the benefits it brings. We are still staying reasonably cautious about the upgrade cycle. Certainly, we expect it to begin next year, but we talk about it spreading over maybe a couple of years. So I would like to think that we will start to see much better business PC numbers year-over-year next calendar year. And I think we have been consistent on that on the last couple of calls, and we are still there. All of the feedback that we get so far is positive, and so that supports a view that we'll start to see that. How quickly that will happen, we are not going to speculate quite yet. But certainly, all the early signs are good at this stage.

On the shrink-wrap or FTP side, again, we only launched yesterday. So it's a little hard to tell because people are buying in anticipation of demand as opposed to actual demand. But again, the --

KASH RANGAN: You've had pre-order, you've taken pre-orders on the consumer side way back when. Right?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. That's been very good, but that's small. That's small, but they have been extremely good, I would say. That's been right at the top end of our expectations, at modest financial impact but extremely good reaction. So that has been extremely good, and the sales in retail we are expecting through the next three months to be very good.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, ISI Group.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Chris, you guys have done a phenomenal job on the cost side, surpassing everybody's expectations. I was wondering if you could give us your view on whether or not it makes sense to think OpEx in fiscal '11 might grow at the rate of inflation, just as a general proxy, especially given that the big bear story is that Microsoft will start accelerating its investments and OpEx will start ramping again, once top line starts to improve.

CHRIS LIDDELL: This is the earliest ever for fiscal year '11 guidance, I think. Okay, I don't see -- I really don't want to give a specific number, but I don't see any internal force that is going to significantly increase OpEx in fiscal year '11, at this stage. I think the disciplines that we have put in place are going to continue, at least for that period of time. And whilst we'll clearly be looking to fund some projects, so I'm not going to say it's flat, I don't see it ramping back to anything like what you might have seen in the economic -- before the economic reset, in terms of growth.

And that's, in particular, because at this stage we are still relatively cautious about the economic rebound. So I think this fiscal discipline that you have seen will continue certainly for the next let's say 12 to 18 months. Now, I have cautioned you with the obvious comment, we are just about to go into our strategic planning round, which then goes into our budgeting round. So that's a directional comment; that's not a specific guidance at this stage.

OPERATOR: Todd Raker, Deutsche Bank.

TODD RAKER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hey, guys, nice quarter. Could you dig into the ASP impact a little bit more in depth on the netbook side? As you see the OEMs moving from an XP SKU to a Win 7 starter edition, what does that do to the economics of the low end of the business? And, how do you think that trends out over the next 12 to 18 months?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let's start with the consumer reaction because that's the sort of leading indicator. And how do we feel about the consumer reaction to, firstly, having Windows on a netbook? Obviously, that has been phenomenal, going from zero attach to -- in the mid-90s. So people are clearly willing to pay for having Windows on their netbook. So that's the first and most important fundamental.

Then, in terms of Windows 7 reaction, clearly yet to see, but early indications in terms of the OEM build that we are having and the mix that they are putting in terms of Windows 7 is encouraging. Now, it's very early days, but encouraging at this stage in terms of their expectations of the number of people who are going to want to see a Windows 7 on their netbook as opposed to an XP.

In terms of the ASP impact, clearly it's almost twice on Windows 7 what it would be on XP, or a significant premium off a modest base. So it's going to be beneficial, but I think it's more important symbolically from our point of view that people see value in Windows 7 and are willing to pay for it. Netbooks, even though they've growing fast, is still are a relatively small component of the overall demand. So it's not going to have a massive financial impact, but it will certainly help in terms of our ASP comparisons year-over-year, if we get sort of good attach of Windows 7 that we are starting to see early days on.

OPERATOR: Sandeep Aggarwal, Collins Stewart.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL, ANALYST, COLLINS STEWART: Chris, last two, three quarters, Microsoft is underperforming in its display advertising business, versus the overall industry. Is display advertising getting ignored because of the increasing focus on search? And then how much of online business weakness is (inaudible) [mainly] due to the -- bring cash back and search distribution deals?

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the display side, I'd have to say, actually, we are performing relatively in-line, certainly, with Yahoo!, when we saw their numbers. So volume and monetization was broadly in line, I would say, with markets. So I'm not entirely sure about your underperformance comment. But nevertheless, it's difficult, and particularly on the monetization side. So we've seen good volume on the display side. We've continued to see that right through the economic reset, so it's been growing in double digits on the volume side.

Where the difficulty has been, has been on monetization. So in terms of volume I'd say there's no lack of focus because we're continuing to see good user engagement and demand. On the monetization side, it has been tough, and that's, clearly, because of what's been happening in the overall economy. And I think people have been -- to the extent they have had budgets, they might have pushed it more on the search side than the display side. We should start to see that improve going forward as we see the economy recover. So I think you'll see display start to get better.

The other thing in display which might be hurting our numbers is just FX. We have a reasonably strong international component, so FX was a headwind in the first quarter. But no lack of focus there. Certainly, a lot of focus in search, but there's plenty of people still working on the display side.

What was the second part of your question? Sorry.

SANDEEP AGGARWAL: It was about -- is being cash back and search distribution deals -- are they causing any weakness in your online business?

CHRIS LIDDELL: No; they are helping a little bit with volume. They are not helping significantly with the financial side because of the nature of it. But certainly, in terms of the market share growth in the quarter, that was negligible from cash back; that was really all the underlying search engine and, clearly, the marketing and user engagement that we got from that, so not much of an impact of that from that at all in the quarter.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL: Nice quarter, Chris. Just a quick question around PC unit growth. We've seen everything from third-party research, everything from 8% to 10% to as high as 12%. Obviously, the Windows 7 launch plays a big part in that growth. Any color you can give us about what you think maybe achieves a lower end of that range or maybe the higher end of that range, just independent of Microsoft?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. It's rebounding very quickly, and I think even in the quarter you saw, relative to where we were three months ago, PC demand, I think, rebounded very quickly relative to everyone's expectations. So it's very hard because of all of the underpinnings of what's going to happen in the overall economy.

What I think we're seeing is the robustness of the concept of the PC. Even through an economic reset, it's something that people want to spend money on. And I think that gives us confidence in the long-term trend and the long-term ability to have good, potentially double-digit growth in PC demand. And that's clearly helped by the fact that we've got new form factors. Windows 7 helps, clearly. You are just seeing a general positive trend on a long-term basis that was [resilient] (technical difficulty) reset.

What that's going to mean for the rest of the fiscal year -- I think you're going to continue to see good consumer demand. Clearly, that was helping last quarter. I think that will continue. You're going to see good emerging market demand; that has really continued right through the last year. So there has been double-digit growth in most of the emerging markets right through the last year. I think the consumer and developed markets will start to gradually continue to improve. The big variable, in my mind, is business PCs. Now, that's been a significant negative. That's decreased double digits over most of the last few quarters, and it's dragged down the numbers.

That can't continue forever. Eventually, those PCs wear out and have to be replaced. So the big variable in terms of rebound is going to be the strength and speed of the business PC refresh cycle. We hope and expect that to be next year. As I said in one of the earlier calls, we're probably still relatively cautious. But when you start to see a rebound in that plus what you're seeing on the consumer side, we feel pretty good about what PC demand is going to look like the next calendar year.

OPERATOR: Katherine Egbert, Jefferies.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Chris, in your prepared comments you talked about the US consumer demand being strong. And then you just gave some color on good emerging markets demand. Can you talk about Europe, what you're seeing there, both on the corporate and the consumer side?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Europe, relatively weak, so that would probably be the weakest area on a relative basis. So I would start with emerging markets and, in particular, China and all the major ones. We are very (technical difficulty) the US recovering a bit, Europe relatively weak. So that would be at the low end of our -- all the numbers that I'm seeing.

KATHERINE EGBERT: When can you expect recoveries, do you think, there?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I guess, when you see an economic recovery. So it depends a little on how you feel about that. Again, I think what we've said, and I'll stick with this even though it was perhaps a bit of an unexpected quarter, this quarter, is this calendar year is transitioned to next calendar year. I feel very good about the dynamics or potential dynamics of the next calendar year. As we start to see economies improve, you are seeing economic forecasters expecting economic growth next year globally and in Europe. You're starting to see forecasts for business spending turning (technical difficulty) people like Gartner, again, on a global basis.

So that's going to underpin spending overall. The European consumer, when they will start to get more aggressive, I really don't know. But I don't expect a lot for the rest of this calendar year. I'd start to see it improve next calendar year.

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: Chris, can you remind us again of when you recognize revenue on Windows in the PC cycle, in the PC supply chain cycle, and what type of lag there potentially is between the PC build and your revenue recognition?

CHRIS LIDDELL: When we sell it to the OEMs is when we recognize that. Now, they buy licenses in anticipation of selling PCs, obviously. That can vary in terms of their supply chain as to how far in advance of when they actually make a sale they buy the license. It can vary. But it's, on average, say, a couple months, around eight weeks. So people last quarter were buying licenses in anticipation of sales that they're making this quarter. And they will be buying licenses now in anticipation of Christmas, for example. So it varies, as I say, depending on the supply chain of the entity. But on average, around eight weeks.

OPERATOR: Tim Klasell, Thomas Weisel Partners.

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Sort of a follow-up on to the prior question. In your OEM revenue bridge you show 4% from Windows attach in inventory. I wonder if you can give us a little bit of color on how much that 4% is attach, i.e., maybe sort of longer-term sustainable versus inventory which can be pretty volatile.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes; it's about half and half. It's about half what we'd describe as inventory impact, about half attach. And on the attach side, there's two impacts there. One is the continuing growth in netbooks, which have a very, very high attach rate. So, as they grow slightly faster than non-netbook PCs, you see attach benefit. And also [M&A's], the larger OEMs, we certainly see them gaining market share. And they tend to have a higher attach rate than the system builder channel as well. So we are starting to see some attach benefit from that.

So those two attach benefits add up to about half of what we show on that line. The other half I would put down to inventory replenishment in the channel.

OPERATOR: Gregg Moskowitz, Auriga.

GREGG MOSKOWITZ, ANALYST, AURIGA USA: Chris, as you had pointed out earlier, business spending remains subdued. But the license-only billings mix was higher than I expected. And I know you had the benefit of a couple extra field days relative to the June quarter. But even adjusting for that, it showed pretty healthy sequential growth. So I was just wondering if there was anything you would point to on the business side that perhaps helped transactional billings in the quarter.

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, there's nothing specific that I would point to there. There were a couple of -- as you said, there were a couple of days of billing that we helped out of the June quarter. But then also we lost a day or two into next quarter. So it wasn't a significant impact from that. I would just say, generally speaking, we are seeing good adoption of our products. We've got a good product suite out there. So I'd point to that. But there's no underlying trends that I would say were particularly positive.

As I pointed out in my commentary, really, the business cycle was very much as we expected in the quarter. And you have to remember that what we are seeing now is just people playing out their budgets on the corporate side that were set, let's say, in December last year, when most people were expecting the world to be very difficult through this year. So people are just simply spending their budgets that are set, to a large extent.

And (technical difficulty) I think it's unlikely that we are going to see a rebound even in this quarter coming up. It's only going to be next year, when people reset their budgets for next year in the next few months and perhaps start to take a slightly more optimistic view, that we start to see business spending start to pick up.

So no particularly positive trends that I would point to, other than the overall reaction to our product suite. It was [clearly] much as we anticipated, which was subdued during the quarter.

OPERATOR: Richard Williams, Cross Research.

RICHARD WILLIAMS, ANALYST, CROSS RESEARCH: Most of my questions have been answered, but I wonder if you could give us some sense of the Windows LIVE growth rate that you expect over the next couple of quarters?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Windows LIVE is really going to be driven by, in particular, how we see that monetization come through, and that comes back to the strength of the overall economic recovery. I would like to think we are going to see display rates go up as we start to see the economy recover. And I think you are starting to see that from us and other people. Certainly, it stopped getting worse and (technical difficulty) stabilizing.

I, again, would probably stick with the same basic line we've had on most things, that we'll start to see some economic improvement on that side as the economy starts to improve. But that's going to be next calendar year more than this calendar year, and it's probably going to be gradual. That continues to be our base case, pretty much across the board, for all the things that drive, in particular, the business side.

BILL KOEFOED: Okay, everybody, so that will wrap up the Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Remember that you can access this call on the Microsoft investor relations website at Microsoft.com/MSFT. Also, please keep in mind that we're holding the Professional Developers Conference in Los Angeles. And as part of that, we will be hosting an analyst briefing on November 18 with Ray Ozzie and Doug Hauger. Please contact us if you need additional details. We hope to see you there. Thanks again for joining us today.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's call. Please disconnect your line at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091106e5an001gt
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,320 words
   PD
22 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2009 second-quarter earnings call. Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Bill Koefoed, General Manager, Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.

BILL KOEFOED, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, operator and thanks to everyone for joining us a little earlier than normal today for Microsoft's second-quarter 2009 earnings conference call. We decided to align the timing of the earnings release this quarter with the cost-management initiatives that we announced this morning. We will talk further about these initiatives later on the call.

   TD
I am delighted today to be joined by Steve Ballmer, our Chief Executive Officer; as well as Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

The format for today's call will be as follows. Chris will summarize some of the key takeaways for the quarter, as well as address the announcement we made this morning. I will then provide details around our second-quarter results and then hand it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our business outlook and then Steve will make some comments. After that, we will take some questions.

Please be aware that we filed our Form 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks, as well as provide a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find these documents at the Investor Relations website at www.microsoft.com/msft.

Today's call will be webcast live and recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. A replay of the call will be available at the Microsoft Investor Relations website through the close of business on January 22, 2010.

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it without the expressed permission of Microsoft may result in civil and criminal penalties.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this comment conference call and in the Risk Factors section of our Form 10-Q, our most recent Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. And now, I will turn the call over to Chris.

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP & CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Bill and again, thanks to all of you for accommodating our timing changes. Our second-quarter results reflect the difficult environment as the global economy continued to deteriorate beyond our expectations, particularly during the month of December. Despite this economic backdrop, we were able to grow revenue and utilize accelerated cost reductions to offset the majority of the impact of the revenue shortfall on operating income.

On a segment basis, our client business being the most severely impacted by the softening economy, declining 8% due to the significant weakness in traditional PC market sales, partially offset by the rapid growth of netbooks. Revenue from Microsoft Business division and Server and Tools divisions grew a combined $500 million or 7%, driven by healthy demand from enterprise customers while the transactional aspects of these businesses were impacted by lower PC and server hardware unit sales. Our online services business revenue was flat, although our online advertising revenue was up 7% in a tough environment. The Entertainment and Devices division delivered revenue above the high end of our guidance, driven by a record number of consumers purchasing Xbox 360 consoles during the holiday season.

Against the backdrop of a deteriorating economy, we are focused on the need for fiscal discipline and on executing in the areas we can control by managing expenses while delivering on the next wave of our product pipeline.

During the second quarter as the economic outlook continued to slow, we accelerated our expense reduction plan. These actions allowed us to deliver operating expenses in the second quarter $600 million below our October forecast. However, today, we have also announced steps we will take to further manage our cost structure. These steps include a reduction in headcount-related costs, including plans to reduce up to 5000 positions in the areas of research and development, marketing, sales, finance, legal, human resources and IT over the next 18 months, of which 1400 are effective today.

There will be no pay raises next fiscal year. We have plans to significantly reduce our vendor and contingent staff expenses. We will also be looking for reductions in marketing expenses, reduce capital expenditure and facility costs, as well as tighter discretionary spending, including significantly reduced travel-related expenses.

The cumulative results of these actions taken during the quarter and those announced today will result in operating expense savings of $1.5 billion and capital expenditure savings of $700 million lower in this fiscal year '09 than assumed in our July guidance.

Lastly, we plan to manage operating expenses broadly flat in fiscal year '10 and capital expenditure to be lower year-over-year.

While we are managing our expenses tightly, we continue investing in key strategic opportunities, which will fuel the future growth of the Company. We have a strong product pipeline and are bringing to market a number of significant product releases over the next two calendar years. With those high-level themes, I will turn the call over to Bill for more details on the second quarter.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Chris. I will discuss top-line financial and business momentum points followed by revenue performance for each of the business units. Then I will review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise noted.

Revenue grew 2% to $16.6 billion, which was below our low-end guidance as the economic environment weakened further than we expected, particularly in the month of December. Our mix of product billings was approximately 30% from OEMs, 25% from multiyear licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. Despite the broad economic weakness, the annuity portion of our volume licensing business remains healthy and increased one percentage point in our billing mix.

Enterprise agreement renewal rates were in line with historical trends. Unearned revenue grew over 7% to $13.1 billion, but was down sequentially. Our contracted not-billed balance increased 10% year-over-year, but was slightly down on a sequential basis remaining at over $13 billion. When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company declined 10% this quarter, reflecting the general economic weakness, primarily in our non-annuity business. Overall, changes in foreign exchange rates added about one percentage point to our revenue growth.

Now, I will provide revenue details by business segment starting with Windows Client. Client revenue declined 8% to $4.0 billion. I will review the main drivers that contributed to this performance beginning with an overview of the PC market. We estimate that the PC market for the quarter was approximately flat year-over-year, well short of our forecast of 10% to 12% growth, as the PC market weakened much more quickly and severely than expected.

Adding a bit more color, traditional PCs declined almost 10% with weakness in both consumer and business PCs. This was partially offset by incremental growth from the new netbooks category. During the quarter, our Windows OEM license units declined by 1%. OEM revenue was 12% lower year-over-year, driven primarily by the dynamics of the underlying PC market. Specifically, the decline in traditional PC sales drove double-digit declines in business and consumer premium SKUs. This impact was partially offset by strong growth in our netbooks offering.

Our attach rates were under pressure during the quarter, but we didn't experience a material change versus historical rates. Our netbook attach rates now exceed 80% as customers are clearly opting for the value Windows provides. We estimate that we lost about two percentage points of growth due to the channel holding a lower than historical level of inventory.

The commercial and retail portion of the Client business grew 19% as it benefited from continued adoption of Windows Vista in the enterprise. On the product front, our engineering team reached a major milestone with the delivery of the public beta of Windows 7, which has received great reviews to date. We remain very positive about the Client product pipeline and its ability to drive long-term growth.

Server and Tools revenue grew 15% to $3.7 billion despite a declining server hardware market. This achievement marked the business' 26th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Annuity licensing continued to grow faster than non-annuity licensing. The momentum of SQL Server 2008 and our Hyper-V virtualization helped drive Windows Server sales and increase our system center management tools attach rate, thus allowing us to grow our revenue per server. As a result, Server and Tools continued to grow faster than the hardware market.

Demand for our consulting and support services to deploy Microsoft technology remains strong, driving revenue growth at 16%. On the product side, the Server and Tools division made significant product development progress. Released to beta, Windows Server 2008 R2 will add the live migration feature to Hyper-V, further enhancing our virtualization offering.

At the Professional Developers Conference in October, we provided a preview to Windows Azure, our cloud-based services platform. The Azure services platform hosted in Microsoft data centers provides an operating system and a set of developer services that can be used to build new applications to run from the cloud or enhance existing applications with cloud-based capability. Its architecture gives developers the choice to build web applications, applications running on connected devices, PCs, servers or hybrid solutions while using the same tools they use today.

The online services business revenue was relatively flat at $866 million. Online advertising revenue grew 7%. Search revenue grew double-digits while display revenue grew slower in a weak ad spending market. We continue to see healthy growth in our traffic with page views and query searches both up on a sequential and year-over-year basis.

In the online services business, we recently announced important partnerships with Dell, Verizon and Sun Microsystems and released a new suite of Windows Live services. We remain committed to the benefits that a strong online services business will bring to Microsoft.

Microsoft Business division revenue was up 1% to $4.9 billion. Business revenue grew 7% driven by continued strength in the annuity business across Office, SharePoint and Client Access license suites, and benefited from strong deferred revenue recognition.

Non-annuity revenue declined on weakness in the midmarket, small to medium business and consumer segments. Specifically, consumer revenue declined 23% driven by the weakness in the core PC market, a mix shift to lower-priced SKUs and inventory reductions from Q1.

From a product perspective, SharePoint, Office Communications Server and CRM all grew at double-digit rates. We made significant progress against the product pipeline by releasing final versions of Exchange Online and SharePoint Online. In October at PDC, we demonstrated our Office 14 Web applications, which will enable the rich and familiar Office experiences through the browser.

Entertainment and Devices division revenue grew 3% to $3.2 billion. A record 6 million consoles were sold in the quarter, growing over 41%. In Europe, Xbox 360 sales nearly doubled those of the previous holiday season. Based on US NPD numbers released last week, Xbox 360 outsold PS3 2 to 1. We continue to lead the industry with our software attach rate ratio of 8.1.

During the quarter, we also launched the new Xbox experience, which has been received extremely well. This software update has given our customers a new upgraded experience that broadens its appeal and increases the value and durability of the platform to customers and Microsoft. Xbox Live membership has grown 70% from last year to 17 million members.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of goods sold was $3.9 billion, increasing as a percentage of revenue two percentage points to 23.5%. Cost of goods sold growth was driven by higher Xbox 360 console volumes, increased data center and traffic acquisition costs in the online services business, and growth in enterprise services.

Operating expenses were $6.8 billion, over $600 million less than was assumed in our low-end guidance. This represents a significant slowing in the operating expense growth rate. Savings included marketing, vendor, people, and general and administrative expenses. As a consequence, operating income, which was $5.9 billion, was only $174 million below guidance, despite revenue being $712 million below guidance.

Other income and expenses was a loss of approximately $300 million for the quarter, driven by currency valuation declines on unhedged portions of the balance sheet and investment impairments, offset by dividends, interest and net recognized gains on investments sold.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 26%, half a percentage point lower than guidance, driven by an earnings mix increase in lower tax jurisdictions. During the quarter, we repurchased 94 million shares or over $2.2 billion of Company stock. We also paid out about $1.2 billion in dividends to shareholders. Diluted shares outstanding were 8.9 billion, down 6.2% from the prior year as a result of the share repurchases.

Earnings per share were $0.47, representing a decline of 6%.

So as Chris noted earlier, the business environment made for a challenging quarter, but we feel positively about our quick response in managing expenses to mitigate the impact as much as possible. With that, let me turn it back to Chris who will provide you with more insight into our business outlook.

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm going to spend my remaining time talking about the balance of fiscal 2009. Clearly, the volatility in the macroeconomic climate created a great degree of uncertainty in the second half of our fiscal year and in particular, conditions progressively worsened throughout the second quarter creating a broader than normal range of possible extrapolations looking forward.

So given that we expect macroeconomic conditions to be the most important variable in predicting our results in the second half, we are not providing quantitative revenue or earnings per share guidance at this time. We will, however, provide you with the framework to help you think about the drivers for our business.

I will start with revenue beginning with Client. The PC market is clearly the key driver for Client revenue and it is likely to remain weak over the second half of our fiscal year with market trends similar to or potentially weaker than the second quarter, especially in the traditional PC market, excluding netbooks. Offsetting that partially, the netbooks mix of total PCs will likely follow similar trends to Q2 with continued strong Windows attach on netbooks contributing to overall Windows revenue.

However, as the economy slows, continued inventory contraction and pressure on attach rates would negatively impact revenue growth in the second half. So overall, we expect Client revenue to perform broadly in line with the traditional PC market.

For the Microsoft Business division, I will stick to the three main drivers of the business. Consumer revenue, which makes up about 20% of the divisional revenue, will be impacted by the declines of the traditional or non-netbook PC market, in addition to further channel inventory contraction. Transactional licensing sales to Business customers, which make up about 25% of the divisional revenue, should generally align to the business PC hardware markets, which may continue to decline in the second half. Finally, the remaining annuity licensing portion of NBD revenue, which makes up approximately 55%, is likely to remain somewhat insulated from macro trends and grow faster than IT spending due to the strength of the businesses like SharePoint and Unified Communications although it could face pressure due to lessening sales cycles.

The Server and Tools segment has many of the same drivers as the Business division. The OEM and transactional licensing business customers, which is approximately 35% of the business, should generally align with the server hardware markets, which third-party analysts expect will decline over the second half of the year. The remaining annuity licensing and enterprise services portion of the business will likely continue to grow faster than IT spending based on the strength of our product, portfolio and business model, but also could face some pressure due to lengthening sales cycles.

OSB revenue should follow similar trends to what was experienced in the second quarter as advertising spending will likely remain weak until the economy starts turning. This is particularly true for the display advertising portion of our business where we expect monetization rates across the industry to continue to worsen.

Also, keep in mind that ongoing expected declines in our access business will weigh on the overall growth of the segment. Additionally, we would expect a headwind from the impact of foreign currency in the second half of the year given the high proportion of revenue that comes from international markets.

The Entertainment and Devices division is highly dependent on consumer spending and while we feel good about the first-half results, a shrinking consumer spending environment would weigh on the segment's results in the second half. Console revenue will likely decline as a result of our earlier pricing actions. Attach revenue may also slow due to contracting consumer spending and moderating attach rates. The other software and peripherals portions of our business follow the underlying PC market in the second half.

With that framework to assist our revenue prospects, let me move to our outlook on expenses. The economy has clearly deteriorated more than we expected and we have responded to this environment by taking further actions to reduce expenses and to prioritize our efforts. We have initiated a number of cost savings, which will layer in progressively over this fiscal year. As a result of these actions, we now expect fiscal '09 operating expenses of approximately $27.4 billion. Going forward, we expect to maintain our operating expenses broadly flat in fiscal year '10.

Moving to the other drivers of earnings per share, we continue to expect an effective tax rate of 26.5% for the year. Other income may be negatively affected by further market movement. We remain committed to returning capital to shareholders through stock repurchases over the long term. However, given the increased uncertainty in the current market, our repurchase activity will slow in the second half of fiscal year '09. With those overall comments and outlook, I'd now like to hand the call over to Steve so he can share his perspective before we take your questions.

STEVE BALLMER, CEO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Chris. We are certainly in the midst of a once-in-a-lifetime set of economic conditions. The perspective I would bring is not one of recession. What I would say rather is the economy is resetting to a lower level of business and consumer spending that is based largely on the reduced leverage in the economy. Consumers can not refinance their homes, don't have that extra money to buy discretionary second and third PCs.

Business, in the business market, we certainly see a reduction in capital expense based upon lack of leverage and business conditions. IT spending represents about 50% of US business capital spend and so neither the consumer nor the business side of the technology industry is immune to these economic -- to these economic conditions. As a participant in the market that at least in some areas like our Client business has a very significant marketshare, you certainly feel the overall market impact most clearly.

In these times, I think there are three things to focus in on and not surprisingly, two of them are very similar to things we focus in on everyday. The three things are, number one, innovation, which I will talk about. Number two is marketshare, because even in a market that is suffering, share increases drive revenue growth. We are always focused on share, but particularly now. And number three is efficiency and effective resource prioritization and allocation, which is where I want to start and one where perhaps we have spent a little less time with you historically.

We are long term and I will come back to this -- we remain incredibly positive on Microsoft, the technology industry, the opportunity for innovation and yet now it is certainly the time to ask critically which of our investments should he prioritized and how can we get more efficient, get the same amount of work done, if you will, for less. And we have been through an exercise and continue through an exercise looking at work processes and driving for efficiency, rightsizing and prioritizing some of our investments.

And we have had to take a number of actions. We are taking a number of actions to, in some senses, manage our cost base. Our cost base has grown, as many of you know, significantly over the last few years. And while as Chris said we don't plan on shrinking it in FY '10, we are really putting the brakes on at a new level and quite significantly putting the brakes on.

With that said, we are going to continue to invest in important areas of opportunity and so even while we take out up to 5000 jobs, we will also be adding a few thousand jobs back in the areas like search where we continue to see incredible opportunity to do good work. So we will take out, put back in, but in aggregate manage expenses consistent with the comments Chris had a chance to make.

In terms of marketshare, I think we have some great opportunity. Bill talked about the performance of Xbox. We sold over 5 million Windows Mobile units this quarter, which was great. We got a lot of opportunity in search, but we're glad to have search volume up so significantly for us this quarter.

Our Server and Tools business reflects our ongoing marketshare improvements basically in both Windows Server and in our SQL business. You will see us continue to invest, particularly in Web servers and technical computing as we move forward.

In the Client business, we sold north of 50 million units of Windows, had another big chunk unfortunately that probably got used, but not paid for and yet we lost maybe a point of share as Apple sold 2.5 million Macs during the same period. We have big plans there with Windows 7 and everything that we have coming forward. And certainly in this economic climate, the kind of price premiums that people pay for Macintosh versus PCs I think will be looked at far more critically by customers as a number of reviewers have started to note.

In the case of netbooks, we have gone from no share to, as the guy said, over 80% share and climbing and it is a whole interesting topic in and of itself. Our Office business with the consumer market, volumes are up dramatically year-on-year, over 14%, which is a business people think where we have high share. We have great opportunities. So a lot of focus in in the enterprise space, in the online space, in the entertainment area and the client area. We had a lot of opportunity to work on marketshare both from a product development standpoint and from a sales and marketing perspective.

Our product pipeline and the work we are doing in innovation I am excited about. We have had first looks on Windows 7. We have had good market reaction to Windows Azure, new version of Office, Office 14. I am excited to be out in the next year or so, Windows Server 2008 released too, builds on the strength of Windows Server. We have certainly got our work cut out for us. There are businesses where we have got a lot of work to do where we don't have leading positions and there are some businesses where we have got leading positions. We just have phenomenal new products to come. But we will continue to invest strongly in R&D. That gets very well-funded in the operating expense strategy that Chris talked about, but at the same time, we are prioritizing, we are focusing on the most important stuff as we go forward.

Certainly while the size and scope of this economic dislocation is unprecedented, it may delay technology adoption in the industry at large. I don't think there is any stopping the forward march of our industry or of Microsoft. And in the long run, let's call it the pause that the economy is imposing on our industry, will certainly just be that. It is a pause and there will be renewed strong growth in the technology industry overall and certainly at Microsoft. And we will focus, we will focus on efficiency, on marketshare and on innovation as we drive forward and with that, I'm going to hand things back over to Bill so we can start taking some of your questions.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks, Steve. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and I will strictly limit you to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Brent Thill, Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, good morning. If your fiscal '09 guidance holds, this would be the fourth consecutive year of operating margin decline. Do you think you're taking quick enough action to realign the business to this lowered demand environment?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we believe certainly taking, as you saw, $600 million worth of costs out in the second quarter, which is almost 10% of our cost base for the quarter, was very prompt action. And if you look at $1.5 billion for this year as well, we believe in the context of a deteriorating economy that really accelerated in December. So we are talking about reacting to the last in particular month to six weeks or so of economic data. We think the actions we took were actually both very fast and appropriate for that now.

I agree with the margin comment, but clearly also the mix of our business is changing quite significantly as well. So as we sit here today, based on the facts that we have seen, in particular over the last few weeks, we think we have taken the right degree of action in terms of reducing the cost base, but continuing to still invest against the revenue that we see coming forward.

STEVE BALLMER: I think the one thing you have to understand is with our margin structure, i.e. with high margins as a percentage of revenue, we are going to be far more volatile both on the upside and on the downside to fluctuations in revenue. And unlike a company that is sort of more about manufacturing where everything kind of scales with volume, we have a much larger fixed cost chunk. And on the upside, when revenue goes strong, it's a chance to increase margins, but when revenue is weaker, it is likely that margin percentages will decline.

CHRIS LIDDELL: And when you look at the initiatives we have taken, depending on the item you are talking about whether it is from people to things like travel expenses to vendor costs, we are taking out somewhere between 5% and 15% of the cost line that we are talking about, which we think, in this environment relative to the reset in the economy, is probably the right level.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks. Next question.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Hi, good morning. You mentioned that you are laying off 5000 people. I am wondering if all of those are Microsoft employees or are there also outside contractors that work at Microsoft that you are not including in that total. And I guess along that line, are you including cash severance charges that you are going to take for the reductions in force? Are you including that in your operating expense guidance for fiscal year '09? Thank you.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, Heather, the outside contractors are not included in that number and we will be certainly looking to reduce that cost line probably in proportion by more than what we are talking about in terms of internal people. So the 5000 jobs we talk about are entirely Microsoft-related.

STEVE BALLMER: Let me make sure the math is clear. We may eliminate up to 5000 jobs, but we are also adding a few thousand jobs.

HEATHER BELLINI: Yes, I think we all assumed that, that net net, it's going to be less than 5000.

STEVE BALLMER: And we are talking here now primarily about operating expense headcount as opposed to cost of goods, which varies in its own criteria. So on the operating expense line, I expect this to be down more like a net sort of 2000 to 3000.

HEATHER BELLINI: Right. But then to Chris' point, it looks like you'll end up cutting more outside contractors than the 5000 or than the 2000 to 3000 you just mentioned?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, those numbers are all internal people, Heather. External contractors I guess we think about more in terms of the dollars that we spend overall, but that could be down -- that is on top of the numbers we are talking about and that could be down up to 15%.

HEATHER BELLINI: Okay. And then the cash severance charge part?

CHRIS LIDDELL: The cash severance charge is not included in the operating expense that we are talking about. It will not -- we are looking at the numbers and obviously it depends on the final number that we talk about with people, but we will call that out separately in the third quarter for the 1400 people that we are talking about today. And then I guess as other people leave the Company, we will look at the charge at that time.

HEATHER BELLINI: Okay, thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Let's move to the next question, please.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. My first question is about the buyback. Is the slowing of the buyback activity principally related to just capital preservation, or do you see an opportunity to maybe be more aggressive on the M&A side given some of the depressed valuations?

And then just secondarily, can you walk us through maybe even some high-level thoughts on how you view the PC market? I know you're not giving explicit guidance, but what your expectations are for piracy? Any just kind of guidelines for how we should be thinking about PC growth for the back half of the year? Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. On the buyback, it is both the factors that you mentioned. Certainly capital preservation in this environment is more important than it has ever been. On the acquisition side, clearly the opportunity to buy shares is very good in Microsoft. Having said that, the opportunity to buy other companies has probably never been better relative to their price as well.

Having said that, I wouldn't expect M&A activity to be particularly significant in the second half of the year, simply because I don't think the market generally has yet lowered their expectations to the new level of prices we are talking about. So we will continue to buy some small, medium-size businesses as we normally do. Prices are certainly coming down, and that is an opportunity from our point of view. But I think the level of activity will be relatively low certainly in the next quarter or two, but the opportunity there afterwards to buy companies, again, generally speaking the small and medium-size, I think is going to be very good. And that is part of the thinking about why we are trying to retain our capital and retain our powder as much as possible.

On the PC market, you're right, we are not giving guidance. I gave some directional thoughts. We aren't projecting -- and clearly macroeconomic rather than Microsoft specific factors are really going to drive the PC market over the next six months. But you have to say realistically, the base case is for a continuation or even possibly a slight deterioration from the second quarter in what we describe as the traditional PC market.

STEVE BALLMER: It is worth remembering that the market has -- let me just say broadly speaking -- four pieces to it. Business PCs, of which we receive our highest royalty, consumer PC, netbook, netbook PCs, and then let's just say everything in emerging markets, of which China is half of that. I mention that because we have different pricing in each, and we have -- particularly in the last one, we have some high piracy dynamics which affect it.

The PC market overall is probably strongest today in emerging markets, the second strongest in netbooks, third strongest in home PCs, and weakest in business PCs because that is where -- it is a place where businesses will say we will just extend the refresh cycle some. So our economic drivers don't look like overall PC market; they look like the components. And unfortunately, right now, we are in, let's say, a tough wind relative even to that mix.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Adam, the other thing I will say, and I think this is generic to all the businesses, is we saw quite a different shape in the quarter December, particular, was relatively weak inside the quarter. October, trading conditions were, generally speaking, in line with our expectations. The first half of November was and we like to think most companies out there saw the weakness really start to sit in late November and through December.

So to some extent, it depends on whether you extrapolate the quarter overall or the conditions that we and most companies saw in December as to what sort of environment you see in the first half. And that creates, if you like, the bookends of expectation, but those are quite wide. If you extrapolate the quarter overall or extrapolate December, you get quite different answers and that is true of the PC market, it is also true for the business overall.

ADAM HOLT: Good color. Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Let's move to the next question.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good morning, thanks for taking my question. Just to follow up there on the PC growth rate versus Microsoft's growth rate. Steve, I understand your point about you are oriented away from -- maybe you don't make as much money on some of the segments that are growing fastest. The delta we saw this quarter, effectively about 8%, is that a reasonable delta to think about going forward? Particularly, you have a sense of how inventory noise was in the quarter. Does that die back and maybe close that delta or should we keep thinking about it at about an 8% delta?

STEVE BALLMER: I don't know think you can pick a magic number because the dynamic -- unfortunately the dynamics shift fairly quickly. My guess is wherever businesses are going to reset that will reset more quickly than where the consumer will wind up resetting to. The consumer will be more volatile. Our business customers will go through one round of thinking, rethinking budgets and then they will reset at a new level. And so I think we are going to see more dynamism unfortunately in that number.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, Sarah, I'll add a little bit of color to that and there are more, as Steve says, there are more moving pieces this quarter than there are normally, but if I try and simplify it a little bit, if you take what we have described as our traditional PC market, which is a mix of the business and consumer that Steve just mentioned, and take that as one growth rate, netbooks will clearly grow in excess of that and give us a little bit of a revenue uplift. We will see probably some inventory contraction. Attach rates on average are probably going to be much the same. We might lose some in the traditional market, but a gain a bit on the netbooks side. And then we'll see our traditional shift to emerging markets. Although interestingly, they have slowed more than traditional markets inside the quarter. You throw all of those things together and we would expect our revenue in Client to be broadly in line with the growth rate from the traditional PC market. So all the other pluses and minuses will, generally speaking, cancel themselves out.

SARAH FRIAR: But not as big a delta as we saw this quarter?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Relative to the PC market -- in fact, we saw -- it is about the same. So the traditional PC market we think shrank somewhere between 7% and 10% in the quarter on average and our revenue for the Client business was down around 8%. So in that range. So that sort of trend, based on the set of factors which, as Steve mentioned, are moving quite quickly, but if they hold relative to the second quarter, you're probably going to see that same overall trend in the back half.

SARAH FRIAR: Helpful. Thank you.

BILL KOEFOED: Thanks. Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Banc of America.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Hi, thank you very much. Steve, since we have you on the line, just (inaudible) ask you a question on the headcount reduction. You pointed out that the consumer spending and business spending has contracted pretty sharply and yet we are talking about a 5000-person headcount reduction here. It still leaves the operating expenses for this fiscal '09 up about 10% despite the revenue growth of what looks to be about a percent or so.

So I am wondering what your thoughts are -- what are your assumptions? It looks like you are factoring in some sort of a rebound, maybe 12 months, 15 months. Certainly you don't want to lay off a lot of people if you end up having to hire them back when the economy starts to turn. I am just wondering if that is the way you're thinking about it or are you actually open to revisiting the cost structure if indeed the economic conditions continue to act the way that you portrayed, that is a vastly lower level of consumer and business spending on technology? Are you open to another round of cuts if you have to (inaudible) the OpEx in line with net revenue growth that we're looking at in '09 and '10?

STEVE BALLMER: Well, no. I would say actually a couple things. I don't know about that. We are not used to downmarkets. So PC market, the traditional market, as Chris calls it, was down 7% -- whatever it is -- 8% or so. 8% is vast for something that has always grown a lot, so maybe some of your adjectives I would modify slightly. We are certainly dealing with unprecedented ground.

Our model is not for a quick rebound. Our model is things go down, as I said, and they reset. The economy shrinks and then it doesn't rebound, it builds from a lower base effectively. So that kind of built in and our work on costs overall reflect that model. So no, I am not expecting a [balance] and when we did our resizing, we did our resizing with an eye both towards margin, total profit, shareholders, short-term and long-term investment in the growth opportunities that we see.

So no, I would say that if the economy stays down and then builds slowly, we are probably at about the expense base and we will stay at about the expense base that Chris talked about. You can't tell. The economy could also get a whole lot worse. It could get a whole lot better, but our basic view is that things go down, stay down for a while, years, a year, two years. I don't know what it will be and then start to build back again. That is kind of the basic planning model behind this resizing of our cost base. You could say that means you could see lower total profit percent margins and that is certainly possible.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question.

OPERATOR: Philip Winslow, Credit Suisse.

PHILIP WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, guys. Just wanted to dig into the severance charges for a minute. You mentioned that you are including those in your GAAP OpEx guidance. What level would you expect that to be in the second half of this year?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I said just to be clear that this wasn't in the number 27.4 that I mentioned, so it would be on top of that. And we would expect it to be several tens of millions, but less than $100 million to give you an order of magnitude. And it is going to depend entirely on the number of people that we talk about and the individual circumstances. So I can't give you an exact number, but that is the order of magnitude.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Brad Reback, Oppenheimer.

BRAD REBACK, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Hey, guys, how are you?

STEVE BALLMER: Good.

BRAD REBACK: I am a little confused. Chris, as you talk about, on the share repurchase side, slowing it down in the second half of the year, but on the other side, only talking about $1.5 billion of costs coming out over the next 18 months, I mean clearly it is full of very valuable franchise with a lot of cash flow. Why not take this opportunity to buy back probably the best investment there is at least from your perspective?

CHRIS LIDDELL: My comments were certainly from the -- over the long term, we remain committed to the buyback activity. The buyback activity in the first half was actually very high. All I did was signal that we expect in the second half that we will moderate from that level. Will we continue to be a net buyer of our shares? Absolutely. Do we think liquidity in the current environment? Certainly until we get a clearer pattern on economic activity overall. Is it a premium? Yes I do. Do I think there is going to be some outstanding opportunities over the medium term to potentially buy some of the companies that we have looked at? I'll mitigate that by saying small to medium. Yes I do. So the opportunity cost of buying our shares has also gone up, as well as the price going down. We are just trying to balance those factors, but we are certainly not talking about getting out of buyback activity as a general concept.

STEVE BALLMER: I will remind you there was a time when we tendered shares at $25 because they looked super cheap. Of course, it is hard to know what the underlying market is going to do in asset values and we just think it makes sense to keep a little bit more liquid for a while.

CHRIS LIDDELL: But also and I have been consistent on this, we try not to tell you in advance what we are doing on the buyback activity. We do it on a quarter. All I am doing is giving you a directional trend.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: John Difucci, JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Thank you. Guys, can you just help me a little bit here in reconciling -- it's sort of a follow-up to some of the other questions -- because you are talking about the declining environment. Actually meaning going down and the uncertainty going forward. And you are resetting expenses to reflect this. But your new guidance for operating expense is still up meaningfully in the second half year-over-year when you adjust for the third-quarter charge last year. If you really think things are, and they obviously are, we all know they are tough out there and the data looks like it is coming down, it is getting worse year-over-year, but your expenses -- you are laying off some people. No one likes to see anybody get laid off. I'm sure you don't, we don't, but net 2000 to 3000 out of 91,000 or whatever you have, are you really -- are you really resetting expenses to reflect what is out there?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Bear in mind, of course, in the year, half of the year has already gone and we are reacting to a situation that, as I say, in particular is in the back half of the quarter. So we -- (multiple speakers).

JOHN DIFUCCI: Yes, but this is year-over-year for just the second half. Your expenses are still up -- your operating expenses are still going to be up if you exclude the third quarter last year, that 1.35 [fine]. So -- I am sorry. Go ahead, Chris.

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, no, no, your point is valid and I'm very happy to address that. Yes, what I describe it as is change in the momentum of our expense base going forward, but clearly we already have things in the pipeline and people who are our employed who we have to bear the expense of. So we are talking about a plan that stretches out over the next 18 months as opposed to the next few months, of which the first few steps were taken in the quarter. That is why we were able to reduce by $600 million, $1.5 billion over this year and flat the year afterwards and a program to reduce not only people internally, but the balance of initiatives that we took.

So these things are layering in over time and are in response -- you remember I talked about at the last call, we were taking a set of initiatives the next quarter and I said at the time, if things got worse, we would probably look to do more. Things did get worse and we did do more, so we are talking about layering in as we see economic conditions change. So yes, we would all like to be able to take things out instantaneously. The reality is we can't do that as quickly as we would like, but you will see us take action that have impact over the next few months.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question.

OPERATOR: Todd Raker, Deutsche Bank.

TODD RAKER, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Thanks, guys. Chris, I was wondering if you would look at the overall corporation, could you give us a sense in terms of how kind of consumer versus transactional business versus annuity breaks out and what is the risk as we look at this spending environment that the annuity business starts to show some dramatic impact over the next kind of six to 18 months?

CHRIS LIDDELL: The annuity business was good in the first quarter and the second quarter, so that is certainly -- one of the strengths of our business model has been the relative insulation of our results as a result of the annuity business. That is a very good point. Non-annuity business shrank during the second quarter. Annuity business actually -- the revenue associated with the annuity business actually grew, so it is providing us some degree of insulation. And we are talking about results obviously that are lower than expectations. Just keep that in context, we still grew revenue 2% in probably the worst environment that we have seen. Part of the reason for that was the strength of annuity.

Over time, in particular if we see the business environment deteriorate in the second half, clearly that annuity business will slow. Having said that, our annuity -- our re-signing rates inside enterprises was broadly in line with historic rates. Billings were broadly flat in the annuity area year-over-year, so they aren't growing as fast as they were, but they weren't declining either, they were broadly flat. We have a very big second half from a billings perspective, so they would have the opportunity to actually put some more money back in the bank. So on that side of the business, certainly stronger historically and that will provide us some degree of cushion as we go through the next six to 12 months.

STEVE BALLMER: The way I would characterize it is it is a bit of a [dance] oscillation where we are actually recognizing now contracts signed two or three years ago. The contracts -- we are re-signing contracts, but sometimes we are re-signing contracts with companies that have less employees, therefore they have less PCs. So even if they are renewing their contracts, they may not be renewing at the same dollar value that the contract is expiring. The effect of that shows up in unearned revenue and all that kind of stuff in the books, but from net income, it takes longer. So if we stay in this cycle and there are fewer people employed in the US, eventually that does ripple through to the annuity business also.

CHRIS LIDDELL: But non-annuity is likely to be more volatile and more negative than the annuity, which is likely to provide -- as Steve said, it's slightly below the oscillation of revenue overall.

TODD RAKER: And any rough -- (multiple speakers)?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sorry, what was that?

TODD RAKER: I was just trying to get a rough sense for the percentage of the business that is annuity-driven on an overall basis.

CHRIS LIDDELL: It changes a bit quarter-by-quarter because of things like Xbox, which is all clearly non-annuity and moves things, but generally there is between 30% and 40% of our revenue.

TODD RAKER: Okay, thanks, guys.

CHRIS LIDDELL: The annuity side is 30% to 40%.

BILL KOEFOED: Next question, operator.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, thanks for taking my question. Maybe, Steve, can you talk about, as you look at the portfolio of businesses you have, and obviously if we go through this economy the way it is, I mean when or if do you think you and the Board would take action to review your portfolio and make a strategic decision to possibly divest of certain assets or technologies? Any color around the strategic thinking would be helpful. Thanks.

STEVE BALLMER: I like our portfolio.

ROBERT BREZA: Okay.

STEVE BALLMER: The Board likes our portfolio.

BILL KOEFOED: Operator, next question. And this will be our last question.

OPERATOR: Katharine Egbert, Jefferies.

KATHERINE EGBERT, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, good morning. So you said your (inaudible) buyback is to preserve capital. You said no significant M&A in the back half because the sellers haven't reset their expectations and yet you are adding search jobs. What are you really telling us here? You are setting basically the status quo with Yahoo!?

STEVE BALLMER: I don't think we said anything about Yahoo! I don't think we have anything to say about Yahoo!. I think I've been quite public about the fact that I think there are advantages for consumers, advertisers, Microsoft and Yahoo! through a search partnership and we'd like to do one. I know Carol Bartz well from Autodesk days and glad to see her at the helm of Yahoo! and if it's appropriate, I'm sure we will have the right discussion.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Just to be clear, my comment about resetting of expectations was certainly not Yahoo!-specific. I think we are being quite clear that that acquisition is no longer on the books. It was a more general comment and my prediction of lower activity in the second half was just a prediction and nothing more than that. Clearly, we saw an opportunity in our -- as we do in terms of buying businesses, one or two a month and we'll take it. I am just simply making the psychological comment that most people in a downmarket hope that they will get last year's price rather than this year's price.

STEVE BALLMER: We have only bought one thing ever over $1.5 billion and we have only bought three things over -- other than that over $1 billion. We are not big M&A doers in general and as Chris said, I don't think even small M&A is tougher as people get or small, that is sub $1 billion, acquisition prices are tougher because people just don't know how to value their businesses today.

KATHERINE EGBERT: Sure. Okay, thanks.

BILL KOEFOED: That will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Thank you, everyone, for joining us this morning. We look forward to seeing many of you in a few weeks when we will provide our annual midyear strategic update in New York. Remember that you can access this call on the Microsoft investor central website at www.microsoft.com/msft. Thanks again for joining us and have a good day.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your lines at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | idurhg : Durable Household Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090129e51m001ec
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,217 words
   PD
23 October 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2008 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft fiscal year 2009 first quarter earnings call.

At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

   TD
I will now hand off the call to Microsoft's Chief Financial Officer, Chris Liddell. Mr. Liddell, please go ahead.

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP & CFO, MICROSOFT: Thank you and good afternoon, everyone and thanks for joining us today.

I want to start the call by introducing Bill Koefeod as the new General Manager, Investor Relations. Bill was previously the General Manager of Finance for our IT organization supporting our CIO here internally at Microsoft, and I'm delighted to have him on the team and I'll now turn the call over to him for our normal introduction.

BILL KOEFEOD, IR, MICROSOFT: Thank you for the welcome, Chris.

I'm excited to have this role and I'm looking forward to meeting with our analysts and investors in the coming weeks and months. We're also joined today on this call by Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

The format for today's call will be relatively unchanged from recent earnings calls. Chris will summarize some of the key take-aways for the quarter. I'll then provide details around our first quarter results and then hand it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the second quarter and for the remainder of fiscal year 2009. After that, we'll take your questions.

Please be aware that we filed our Form 10Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements, and food notes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance, and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today.

You can find the earnings release, the Form 10Q, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at www.microsoft.com/MSFT. Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on October 23, 2009. This conference call is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in criminal and civil penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Any results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our Form 10Q, our most recent Form 10K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.

And now, I'll return the call over to Chris.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Bill.

I'll begin with highlights from our first quarter performance and outlook for the rest of the fiscal 2009. We delivered strong first quarter financial results with revenue, operating income and earnings per share all meeting or exceeding the high end of our guidance despite what was obviously a very challenging environment.

Let me just mention a few key items of our first quarter. Revenue from Microsoft Business Division and Server and Tools segments grew a combined $1.3 billion, or 19%, driven by healthy demand from enterprise customers. Client revenue grew 2% with growth impacted by the expected reduction of Q4 channel inventory and a shift of the sales mix to lower price Netbook and the units sold in emerging markets.

Consumer demand for the Xbox 360 resulted in the outperformance by Entertainment and Devices division. Our Online Services business grew revenue a very good 15% in a challenging online advertising environment. We refreshed our product lineup with several important releases and we also increased the dividend by 18%, and announced a new $40 billion share repurchase authorization.

While we're pleased with the overall results, the macroeconomic environment clearly weakened throughout the quarter. Like many other companies we experienced deterioration in the spending environment over the last few weeks of the quarter, which has continued into October. Accordingly, we're updating our business outlook to reflect the increased risks and the likelihood of a continued economic slowdown. In July, we indicated that our guidance was based on an expectation that economic conditions would improve in the second half of our fiscal year, and this clearly now appears unlikely to occur.

We're not economic forecasters and as such, there is a high degree of uncertainty in our outlook based on the state of the economy. As a result, we've adjusted our guidance approach as follows. At the top end we're assuming a mild recession, and a relatively modest growth rate for all IT-based products. While at the bottom end we're assuming a deeper recession in the economy and (inaudible) lower growth for IT. Clearly there is a possibility that the economy recovers faster than we predict or that it deteriorates more severely. In all scenarios we're focused on maintaining the positive delta in growth rates between our revenues and the overall IT environment.

We feel extremely good about our relative competitive position, our ability to continue growing faster than general IT spending and our ability to deliver value to our customers in this environment. We believe our exceptionally strong cash flow, high unearned revenue, and $25 billion in cash and investments on hand will allow us to weather any economic contraction in relatively better terms than most. It's also clearly important to keep perspective. We still foresee an increase in demand for our products and the potential to drive revenue and earnings per share growth from high single to low double-digits this financial year, which will be an exceptional performance in this environment.

So with those high level themes, I'm going to turn the call over to Bill now for more details on how we closed out the first quarter.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Chris.

I'll discuss top line financial and business momentum points, followed by revenue performance for each of our business units. Then I'll review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.

In the first quarter, we met or exceeded our high end guidance for revenue, operating income, and earnings per share. Revenue grew over 9% to $15.1 billion, approximately $150 million above our high end guidance. Our annuity sales mix, which is approximately 25% of our billed revenue, grew over 3 percentage points year-over-year. Enterprise agreement renewal rates were in line with historical trends.

The remainder of our product billing for the quarter was approximately 35% from OEMs, about 20% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. Our unearned revenue grew over 16% to $13.5 billion, but was down sequentially from the prior quarter. This sequential decline was in line with our guidance and followed normal seasonal patterns. Our contracted not billed balance increased both sequentially and year-over-year to over $13 billion. When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company increased 6% this quarter on top of our over 30% total bookings growth reported in Q1 FY'08. Overall, changes in foreign exchange rates added about 3 percentage points to our revenue growth.

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment starting with Windows clients. Client revenue grew 2% to $4.2 billion, missing guidance by 4 percentage points. I'll review the main drivers behind client revenue that contributed to this performance beginning with PC unit growth.

We estimate that the PC unit growth rate for the quarter was between 10% and 12%. While this tracks to the overall forecast we provided in July, the underlying mix was different than we expected entering the quarter. Specifically, growth of traditional PC units was several points lower than we expected. This was offset by growth in the new low end Netbook segment. From a geographic perspective, we estimate mature market traditional PC growth of flat to low single digits with Netbooks adding about 8 points to the growth. In emerging markets, we continued to see strong double-digit growth across all segments.

During the quarter, our Windows OEM licensed units increased by 8%, a few points lower than the overall hardware market. The shortfall between OEM unit growth and hardware growth was primarily driven by inventory reductions in the OEM channel. As we mentioned in the last earnings call, we exited the fourth quarter with OEM channel inventory above historic norms, which were worked down during the quarter. Despite healthy unit growth, OEM revenue declined 1% year-over-year as the average selling price declined.

This was primarily the result of two factors. The mix shift to Netbook and continued mix shift to emerging markets, both of which have lower average selling prices than our historical average selling price. At this stage it is too early to determine the extent to which the new Netbooks segment is cannibalizing the traditional consumer PC market sales or simply capturing a new market opportunity. So we believe that there are likely aspects of both. That said, customers are increasingly opting for the value, diversity and choice that Microsoft Windows provides. We have increased attach rates on these form factors to mirror the traditional PC market so we are well-positioned to participate in this segment.

The remainder of client revenue comes from commercial and retail licensing. This portion of the business grew over 20% driven by continued strength in client annuity licensing as business customers recognize the value of our Windows Vista enterprise offering, including those that help them reduce costs by more efficiently managing their desktop infrastructure.

Our Server and Tools revenue grew 17% to $3.4 billion, marking the business' 25th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Annuity licensing grew faster than non-annuity licensing driving Server and Tools unearned revenue up over 28% from the prior year. This reflects continued customer commitment to our long-term product road maps and underscores the increasingly critical role our server products perform in transforming customer's IT departments into strategic assets. The releases during the quarter of SQL Server 2008 and Microsoft Hyper V Server 2008 demonstrated our ongoing commitment to help customers create more cost effective and flexible data centers. Meanwhile, demand for our consulting and support services to deploy Microsoft technology remained strong, driving revenue growth of 19%.

The Online Service business grew revenue 15% to $770 million. Online advertising revenue also grew 15% with search revenue growing faster than display revenue. We continued to see healthy growth in our traffic with page views and query searches up both up on a sequential and year-over-year basis. During the quarter, we partnered with NBC to make the 2008 Beijing Olympics the largest ever media event on the web, showcasing Silver Light as it served up 70 million video streams and 600 million minutes of video content on NBCOlympics.com. As new online advertising models strive to increasingly differentiate based on user experience, Microsoft technologies like Silver Light become even more pivotal to our partner's success.

Microsoft business division revenue was up 20% to $4.9 billion exceeding our high end guidance by 4 percentage points. Business revenue grew 16% driven by strong sales of enterprise agreements and client access license suites. Microsoft Office, SharePoint, Dynamics and Unified Communications all continued strong sales momentum. Consumer revenue grew 36% driven by higher than expected sales into the retail and OEM channels resulting from well received promotional pricing programs for the 2007 Microsoft Office system.

Entertainment and Devices division revenue declined 6% to $1.8 billion, but exceeded our high end guidance. The anticipated revenue decline due the comparison to the quarter a year ago that included the launch of Halo 3 was milder than expected due to stronger Xbox 360 console sales into the channel. We sold 2.2 million Xbox 360 consoles representing over 20% growth as retailers stocked inventory in front of the holiday season. Based on US MPD numbers released last week, Xbox 360 outsold PS3 by over 100,000 consoles during the quarter while achieving an industry leading game attach rate of 8.1.

Also, earlier this month at the Tokyo game show we announced that Xbox Live has over 14 million members, roughly doubling in membership for each of the last two years. In spite of console price cuts taken in the quarter and the absence of Halo 3, the Entertainment and Devices division increased operating income by 7%, expanding its operating margin by over a percentage point.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of goods sold was $2.8 billion, and operating expenses were $6.2 billion. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue declined half a percentage point to 18.9%. This gross margin expansion was driven by lower console manufacturing, warranty and component costs, as well as a mix shift toward the lower cost Xbox 360 arcade console.

Operating income was $6 billion, up 3% from the year-ago period. Other income and expenses was an $8 million loss for the quarter as dividend and interest income was offset by asset revaluation. It should be noted that we continue to be pleased by our treasury team's performance in a very challenging capital markets environment. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 27%, a percentage point lower than expected, driven by an earnings mix increased in lower tax jurisdictions.

During the quarter, we repurchased 223 million shares or almost $6 billion of company stock and paid out a $1 billion in dividends to shareholders. Of the $6 billion in share buybacks, approximately $3.3 billion was made under the new repurchase plan that we announced in September. Diluted shares outstanding were 9.2 billion, down 3.5% from the prior year as a result of the share repurchases. Earnings per share were $0.48, at the high end of our guidance, representing growth of 7%. So, in summary, we had a good quarter with revenue above expectations, operating income inline with guidance, and earnings per share at the high end of guidance.

With that, let me turn it back to Chris who will provide you with our second quarter and full year guidance.

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call talking about what we're seeing in the market and providing additional details on the second quarter and the full year.

As I mentioned, our guidance now assumes an outcome between a mild and a deeper recessionary environment. It's important that we give you some background, therefore, to what we're seeing in the marketplace. Over the first two months of this quarter we experienced much the same economic conditions as we saw during the second half of fiscal 2008 with demand actually a little better than our historic seasonality. However, in September, as the credit crisis unfolded, many partners and customers were faced with market uncertainty and credit restrictions which impacted the rate of which they purchased software.

We've seen this behavior continue into October and while we're optimistic about the actions the government has taken to unfreeze the financial markets, there will inevitably be some spillover into the real economy. However, even in this environment of softening demand, recent third party research continues to call for growth in overall technology spending with the enterprise software portion of the spending expected to be up in the high single digit range. Our approach will be to tailor our business to whatever the economy brings, focusing on outperforming our competitors and in doing so, to outgrow the overall IT market.

We will be agile, not only to customer demands in the changing environment, but also to our own patterns of spending. Given that, we have three main areas of focus. First, our philosophy of providing high value products at low total ownership costs is a competitive advantage in these times. Most IT leaders today are looking at their budgets and determining how to do more while spending less. We expect Microsoft's low cost, standardized platforms and solutions will be particularly strong in the time when enterprises are unwilling to embark on complex customized IT solutions.

We believe we have some compelling products that will reduce our customers' costs. We expect these to be particularly competitive in this environment. For example, virtualization with Windows Server Hyper V and system center management tools which allow customers to reduce hardware costs, increase server utilization rates and simplify system maintenance while lowering power and facility costs. We offer the lowest PCO in the industry with our solution about one-third the cost of our largest competitor. This value proposition is already successful as evidenced in IDC's recent report which shows that in the second quarter Microsoft's share of the X86 server virtualization market climbed to nearly 25%.

Additionally, with our help customers can experience general cost savings and improved efficiency across their organization. For example, using unified communication software and services, including Office Live meeting, which help improve collaboration and increase productivity while reducing travel and telephonic expenses. And SharePoint improves the coordination across organizations, enables people to find and act on information anywhere within and across organizations and decreases IT support costs by empowering end users.

The second area we're focused on in the current economic environment is internal operational efficiency and expense management. In the near term, we're reassessing our business plan and pulling back spending in lower priority areas. As a result, better than our guidance is a $400 million to $500 million decrease in operating expenses. This saving can be categorized as follows: lower headcount related costs as we've reviewed our hiring plans and making adjustments to our headcount growth; lower marketing expenses as we're adjusting our spending plans to correspond to our updated economic outlook; lower CapEx spend on data centers; and other general savings including travel expenses and vendor services.

These savings will progressively layer in, translating to economic savings in particular later this year and carrying forward into the next fiscal year as well. We are also putting in place other initiatives on a contingency basis that we can either dial up or down as we see economic changes unfold. If macroeconomic conditions worsen then we will endeavor to reduce our operating expenses accordingly.

Third, we'll focus our investment dollars in key strategic opportunities. Continuing to manage our business for the long-term in anticipation of the eventual economic recovery. While our short-term results will be impacted by the current economic environment, our long-term technology outlook remains strong. Long-term trends which power our business including the development of IT infrastructure and growing IT penetration in places like China, India, and other emerging markets remains intact.

So with those comments, let's move to guidance. Looking to the second quarter, we expect revenue of 17.3 to $17.8 billion, which represents a year-over-year increase of 6% to 9%. For the full year, we're providing updated guidance for revenue of 64.9 to $66.4 billion, growing 7% to 10%. Let me provide you with some of our revenue guidance by segment and some additional details and the assumptions underlying it.

Beginning with our client division, we see second quarter growth of 7% to 10%, and full year growth of 2% to 6%. Underlying this guidance we see significant variability in the potential PC hardware demand. As a result, we've made some adjustments to our forecast of PC units and now expect PC unit growth of 10% to 12% for the second quarter and 8% to 12% for the overall fiscal year.

You can see that we've widened our forecast range in the second half of our fiscal year as variability in the market demand clearly becomes more pronounced. The forecast also reflects continuation of the trends we saw in the first quarter, and assumes the following: traditional mature market PC units will grow in the low single digits, but with high potential variability; emerging markets units will continue to grow mid-to high teens; and sales in Netbooks will add about 5 percentage points of growth to the overall PC market.

Moving on to our Server and Tools segment, we're now foreseeing revenue growth of 16% to 17% for the second quarter and 15% to 17% for the year. Despite a more cautious IT spending outlook, and in particular lower forecasts for non-annuity license sales to smaller medium businesses, we continue to expect revenue to grow in strong double digits across our Server platform products and services, a reflection of the strength of the product portfolio and its relative value to customers. Microsoft Business division revenues should be up 7% to 8% in the second quarter and 12% to 13% for the year.

We expect to see continued healthy consumer and enterprise demand for our Office, SharePoint, Dynamics and Unified Communications offerings. We forecast revenue in the Online Services businesses to increase 6% to 10% in Q2 and 10% to 13% for the year. This includes online advertising growth of about 15% for the year. Still healthy in a more difficult advertising spending environment we expect. Our display advertising business is probably the most economically sensitive of our revenue streams and therefore has the highest potential to either under or outperform depending on the state of the economy.

The Entertainment Devices division, we're forecasting revenue to be down 5% to up 1% for Q2 and down 3% to flat for the full year. Revenue growth is impacted by our recent Xbox 360 pricing cuts, that's offset by increases in console volume and lower costs. As I outlined in July, we still expect the division to continue its profitability throughout this year.

Taken together, we still expect to grow revenue faster than the market. For example we're forecasting MBD in Server and Tools will grow revenue a combined 14% to 15%, about 6 points above Gardner's recent forecast for overall IT software spending of around 9%. As a result of the changes to our revenue and operating expense forecast, the operating income for the second quarter is expected to be between 6.1 and $6.4 billion, and for the year we expect operating income to be between 24.4 and $25.5 billion.

For the second quarter, we expect EPS, earnings per share, of $0.51 to $0.53; and for the fiscal year we've updated our EPS guidance to be between $2.00 to $2.10; still achieving double-digit growth of 12% at the top end. These earnings assume an effective tax rate of 26.5%, a 1.5 points lower than we expected in July. From balance sheet perspective, we expect total unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2009 up 2% to 5%, and when thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from Q1 to Q2, we expect the balance to be down sequentially. Contracted not billed should also finish 2009 up from current levels.

I'm also pleased with our continued progress on capital structure and dividend policy. During the quarter as you've seen, the board authorized a $40 billion share repurchase program. We issued debt in the form of commercial paper for the first time. We've been issuing that at an interest cost of less than 1%, and increased our dividend by 18%. Given the uncertainty surrounding the current environment, it's important that you clearly consider some of the risks of this forecast which include the normal competitive legal, mix and execution risks; however in addition, there is also a high degree of uncertainty as to the path and economic demand, and that's reflected in the somewhat wider guidance range.

Before closing and taking your questions, I'd like to offer the following long-term perspectives. We cannot control the economy, but we can control our relative performance versus the economy and versus overall IT spend. We continue to forecast outgrowing the market regardless of the economic conditions. On the spending front, we're carefully examining all of our businesses for opportunities to manage expenses and have already implemented some initiatives as I detailed earlier. We will adapt our cost base to the evolving economy while simultaneously making appropriate investments to position ourselves for continued long-term success when the economy recovers. On balance, I am happy that we're managing the Company with the right balance of short term earnings performance, and driving long term shareholder value.

So with those comments, I'll hand the call over to Bill so we can get started taking some of your questions. Thanks.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Chris.

Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and limit yourself to just one question.

Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: Okay, thank you we will now begin the question-and-answer session. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS)

Our first question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Great, thank you. Good afternoon, Chris and Kevin.

I had two quick questions for you, Chris. What are your assumptions for premium mix in the client business for the December quarter and for fiscal year '09? That's been moving around a lot and obviously being impacted by the Netbook trend. And then the other question would be how should we expect client margins to be impacted by the trend going forward?

Thank you.

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the premium mix, it's in the mid-70s, Heather, and for Q2 and for the rest of the year we expect that to be about the same. So somewhere in the 70% to 80% region, probably on balance, in the low 70s to mid-70s. That premium mix imbeds in it the Netbook sales as well, so that has both low end Vista and Netbook sales in it.

In terms of margins, it's a difficult one to answer because you've got the weighted average of lots of growth factors in there. Clearly, the realization that we get from Netbook are lower than what we traditionally get from the consumer segment; and to the extent that they are relatively high growth then it does impact our overall revenue per license. But to the extent that it is growth that we wouldn't otherwise have, had and that's the phenomena that I don't think any of us really know at this stage, how much of it is cannibalization of higher revenue per licenses and how much of it just simply new sales, then it's incremental sales even though it drags down the average.

So, clearly some of it is partially cannibalization, some of it is a new phenomena. When you look at the price points of some of the Netbooks, they're $300 to $400, clearly that is attractive for a lot of people in terms of adding a third or fourth PC to their homes so it's not just transference of higher end PCs as well. So it will affect the margins but some of that will be incremental growth that we wouldn't otherwise have had.

HEATHER BELLINI: So will we start thinking of this business like we do your overall operating profit as growth in operating income and client as opposed to focusing on the absolute margin percentage?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. I think that's a good way of thinking about it and what we really have now is quite different segments inside the PC market. It's becoming more interesting in that sense, but you have quite different dynamics in the business market, the consumer, not Netbooks market, the consumer Netbooks market and the emerging country version of all of those as well. Quite different growth rates, quite different realizations, and quite different dynamics driving that. So it becomes--if you like more complicated from a forecasting point of view, but a more interesting marketplace.

HEATHER BELLINI: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Brent Thill with Citi.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Thanks, Chris.

Just on the operating margin side, can you just walk through some of the metrics you're putting in or procedures you're putting in to control the cost. I think you mentioned CapEx and headcount. Are you still on track to do $4 billion on CapEx this year and I guess just from a headcount perspective, I think you ended last year at 91,000 employees, up 15%; do you expect to freeze or significantly slow that number?

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the CapEx side I would expect us to spend upwards of $300 million less than what we were anticipating so if we were talking about 4 before, I would think 3.7 is probably a better number at this stage. That will all be in the data inside. We will probably also slow our growth in some of the facilities that we have the people just by virtue of not having as many people as were expected as well, but that's likely to be more of an FY'10 phenomena.

In terms of--I'm sorry, what was the second part of your question?

BRENT THILL: Just as it relates to headcount, you ended the year at 91,000 heads, up 15%. Do you expect higher or slow that pace?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't see any scenario where we'll grow by that much this year, by 15%. It will certainly be less than that, and it will be less than what we expect them to grow in the year--coming into the year. So what we've done is essentially gone right across the Company, every division and looked at areas where we can, if you like, spend less, have lower priority spending taken out. Some of that is headcount growth that we might have otherwise had, some of it is marketing spend in areas where there's not the demand that we're expecting, some of it's other, so it's non-people relating costs, spend or spend, travel, things like that.

So we're really cutting back on all of the areas which I consider--I'd call it non-priority or low priority. In terms of where we might go further, we'll keep looking at those areas as the year develops. From my point of view, in terms of the margin structure, for our core businesses as a result of the cuts that we will see and what we would have otherwise spent, the margins for our core business overall will stay broadly flat year on year. Entertainment and devices and OSB sort of will have their own dynamic, but all of those divisions will spend less than what they would otherwise.

BRENT THILL: Thanks, Chris.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Charlie DiBona with Sanford Bernstein.

CHARLES DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hi, Chris.

I was wondering if we could turn maybe to unearneds. They were down sequentially by an unusually large amount from Q1 to Q4, and you're guiding to down sequentially next quarter which is different than your historic seasonality and even to--you're guiding to even sort of a weak increase year-over-year by the end of the year. I understand there's an issue around undelivered elements, those will be sort of systemically coming down here. But even the VLA unearneds are down sort of an unusual amount.

How should we interpret this? What should we infer about your ability to replenish those balances in this environment? And second, as you're pulling those revenues down, they should be extremely high margin. Maybe you could give us some color on sort of what that means for controlling for that what apples-to-apples margins really look like.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Good question, Charlie.

In terms of quarter one relative to quarter four it was down, that's certainly true but obviously quarter four is a big billings quarter for us so you would expect it to be down year on year, it's down about the same as what we would normally expect. During the course of the year and you've also got the Vista impact and undelivered elements so you need to net that out to look at the unearned part that is not associated with that. So there's a couple of factors there that you need to build in In terms of how we think about it going forward, and better than our guidance there's clearly some sense that we will have a more difficult economic environment and that's going to have to feed into the billings overall.

In the first quarter, interestingly, we continued our EA renewal rate of sort of traditional 2/3 or thereabouts. So the first quarter we saw very good, but there's just going to be pressure. All of our customers are clearly going to be looking for opportunities to cut costs and so forth. So we're just being more cautious in terms of the rate at which we might have renewals or the rate at which we may start our new customers.

Now, all of our sales force, I sat in for half a day with our salesforce yesterday going through area by area and segment by segment. All of them are committed to their budgets, but you have to be realistic and say in this environment, we may not get the growth that we would have liked to have seen otherwise. So I'm just generally more cautious and that will feed through to our unearned over time.

One of the benefits we have in the areas like MBD and Server and Tools, about 40% of our revenue this year is from unearned coming through from last year. So it's going to be an FY'10 impact as much as an FY'09 impact that I'm concerned about Charlie, and as we get through the second quarter and get much more visibility into that, I think we'll have to cut our costs for FY'10 depending on how we see the billings approach in the December period, which is much more significant, and then also going into potentially into the June re-signings as well.

So it's an emerging issue. I don't see it that significant just at the moment. It's going to depend enormously on the environment that develops over the next three to six months and that's going to be an FY'10 sort of issue and upside, depending on where we get to.

CHARLES DIBONA: On the margin side, though, you're pulling this high revenue--you're pulling them down a little faster than you did last year. Is that going to give you some cushion on the margin side?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't see cushion to the margin side. It will help, if you like, it will help give us an underpinning on the revenue growth and to the extent that that revenue is effectively 100% margin that's already paid. So as it comes through, it's just revenue that's there. It will help us with, if you like, the underwriting the revenue. I don't see it as high margin, per se.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Charlie.

CHARLES DIBONA: Thank you.

BILL KOEFEOD: Let's move to the next question, please. Operator?

OPERATOR: Yes, and the next question comes from Sarah Friar from Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good afternoon, everyone.

Two quick ones. Chris, just on the margin, back to margins, I know you don't like to guide to a margin but I think you made the comment that margins broadly flat year-over-year, given the cost focus that you have. Why shouldn't Microsoft be thinking about margin expansion? Just given your size, the fact we're going into a downturn, it really gives companies an ability to go back in and cut not just kind of semi-discretionary, but really kind of cut back and think what a new operating model could look like with a slower top line growth for a couple of years.

And then just if I could a follow-up on the EPS side, what buyback assumptions, if any, have you got within your EPS guidance as you think about the next couple of quarters. I think normally you say you don't want to give it, but it seems like there's not a lot in there just based on how the guidance stacks up.

CHRIS LIDDELL: The way that we spend and the way that our revenue is recognized, really are two quite separate trends and we've talked about this before. So when I think about how much we save, I think about it in the context of what are the opportunities to save against the expense base that we have. Not as against the revenue base that we have. So the revenue of adjusted in terms of the economic conditions that we think for this year. The expense base we've adjusted to try and retain margins as much as possible, but more against the opportunities set of where we can take expense out.

In terms of our ability to expand margins in an environment like this, again, I would say that's an FY'10 and further. That's the sort of discussions that we have and the strategy reviews as opposed to how we run the business in the short term. I made the comment in the commentary that I think we're making the right balance of taking cost out in the short term but still investing for the future. As we start to put our forecast for how we see the environment in fiscal year '10, '11 and so forth, then we have to start making some decisions about more structural change on the expense side as opposed to saving what we have already budgeted for this year. So the two are clearly mathematically connected to each other, but in terms of the way we manage them are really quite separate.

On buyback, as you know, we don't forecast what buybacks are. We did $6 billion in the quarter. Clearly, we have a new authorization in place now and we have the economic ability to continue the buybacks and share prices are certainly relatively attractive, but we don't forecast what we will do in any one particular quarter.

SARAH FRIAR: Okay.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Sarah.

Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Kash Rangan from Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, thank you very much.

Two questions for you, Chris. One is looking at the cash flow statement there is an unusual deduction in current liability and I was wondering if you could offer some perspective on that.

Secondly, at a very high level, just doing some rough back of the envelope math here. Your revenue guidance compared to--revenue guidance now compared to where it was three months back is about 300 basis points lower and when I flowed through that incremental impact at a 70%, 75% contribution margin, which is what I would expect given that most of your core business products are at that margin, I would expect that a lot of that negative impact to earnings can be offset through your share buybacks and even if you slowed down your pace of share buybacks to do let's say 3 to 4 billion per quarter for the next three quarters, I would imagine that the EPS impact--the negative EPS impact should be largely offset, yet we do have cautious guidance, which I completely understand and appreciate given the economic environment. But I just wonder as I go through the tradeoff, if there is a little bit more cautiousness that is built in than what meets the eye.

That's it. Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay. Fine.

In terms of the unusual amount that you talked about, we did settle a past IRS exam for the years 2000 to 2003. So that was a large one-off payment to the tax department, and it was actually lower than what we were expecting and recall that we released some of the provision last quarter. So that was the large payment that you're alluding to from a cash flow point of view.

Secondly, on the margin side, you are correct that buybacks will certainly offset some of the loss of margin that we have at an operating income level. One of the things that will dampen that to some extent is the investment income that we have. We're more cautious in what we expect to get from our investment income line. You saw it was essentially zero for this quarter and it's just a difficult environment, clearly, to make high returns or any significant returns from our investment portfolio. So that will offset a little bit of the buyback impact that you talked about.

The other thing to point out is that as we lose sales in most of our businesses, whilst you applied our average margin, the marginal margin, if I can call it that, is probably higher than that. So some of the sales that we have really are 90% plus given the relatively low COGS associated with them. So if we lose revenue, our ability to take cost out in the short-term equal to that, to take--to keep our margins intact is very challenging.

Now, we're looking to do that and as I mentioned before in those three core businesses, I think we can retain margins year-over-year. But that's pretty difficult to make up from either cost reduction or from buyback overall. It will certainly offset it and we have the benefit of both strong cash flow and a strong financial position which helps us, but I don't see it being a total offset.

KASH RANGAN: Got it. Thanks a lot.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Kash.

Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is John DiFucci with JPMorgan.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, JPMORGAN CHASE & CO.: Thank you.

Chris, you saw your client revenue go up about 2% this quarter and your guidance is for 2% to 6% growth for the year. But you expect 7% to 10% for the December quarter and you've talked about the beginning of this quarter seeing some weakness overall, you didn't specifically mention this business. I'm just curious, though, what gives you the confidence in this 7% to 10% growth for this quarter?

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's really--it's around as we go further out in the year we just get more uncertain so we've widened the range in particular in the back half of the year. So we think, particularly with Christmas coming up, that overall sales will be relatively good. We have reasonably good visibility into this quarter in terms of inventory positions. We feel pretty good about some of the initiatives that we have in the unlicensed area. We've got channel inventory down to where we would like to see it. So our visibility is better in this quarter than it is in some of the later quarters. So it's simply, as we go further out in the year, we just become more cautious.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Okay. And if I might just a quick follow-up, I just wondered if there's any potential for any channel issues? Entertainment and device really strong this quarter, but two years ago was really strong and then later on we found out there was some--the channel was over full I guess. And I don't think it's related, but you had a big jump in inventory on the balance sheet by like over 60%; but are those two things related or can you just address those two?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. We are feeling good about the overall level of inventory going into the Christmas period. We had a strong sell-in quarter you're correct, and we have got a reasonable amount of inventory on our balance sheet in terms of our own boxes. Having said that, the price points that we're looking at for this Christmas at $199 for Arcade, $299 for Pro, $399 for Elite, are very good.

None of us know exactly how this economic situation is going to play out in terms of Christmas purchases. But when you look at those relative price points, either relative to our competition, we're sort of on absolute dollars relative to other things you people might purchase. It's nowhere near as significant as it was, say, last Christmas. So clearly, we don't know what Christmas will look like; but given our relative position, I think we're in pretty good shape from an inventory perspective.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, John.

JOHN DIFUCCI: Thanks.

BILL KOEFEOD: Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: And our next question comes from Adam Holt from Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good afternoon.

I had a couple questions about currency. I believe a lot of your non-U.S. business is actually billed in U.S. dollars, like some of the OEM business in some of the emerging markets. Roughly what percentage of your revenue, if you have number, is actually in U.S. dollars and what are your assumptions around currency for the rest of fiscal '09?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Think of it--the easiest way to think about it is three, lots of one-thirds. So about a third of our business is in U.S. dollars in North America, about a third of our business is in U.S. dollars but sold in businesses outside of the U.S., and about a third of our business was sold in international currencies in countries outside the U.S. So you're correct, a large part and particularly the OEM sales is for units that are sold outside the U.S., but we bill in U.S. dollars. That's the easiest way of thinking about it. So around a third is directly impacted by foreign exchange movements.

In terms of the assumptions going forward, we are pretty much fully hedged for this year so regardless of the FX rate that you assume, the revenue guidance that we're giving is pretty solid. It won't change much depending on currency. It will start to impact us more in fiscal year '10 as some of those hedges roll off. But we went into the year 100% hedged so at the moment we're benefiting from a lower exchange rate in terms of those hedges being valuable.

ADAM HOLT: Terrific.

If I could just ask a follow-up on the office business. Another, obviously, good quarter in NBD with particular strength in the consumer side. Now the comparisons are easy for consumer for the next couple of quarters. You did mention some incentive programs this quarter. What are your expectations around the consumer growth and any further incentives there?

Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Those incentives certainly helped drive growth in the first quarter. To the extent they're not evident or they're not in existence in the second quarter, we're more conservative and that's embedded in the guidance in NBD for the second quarter. We still think the overall customer proposition is very good, but we certainly saw a volume lift from some of those incentives in the first quarter. So you're correct there, but we don't think it's going to be a significant phenomena in the second quarter.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Adam.

Operator, next question, please.

OPERATOR: Next is Phil Winslow with Credit Suisse.

PHIL WINSLOW, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Hi, guys.

Just had a question on the PC outlook for the rest of the fiscal year and Q4. I think you mentioned 10% to 12% year-over-year growth sort of just your PC shipment expectation. Kind of looking at what that is sequentially that's about 10 to 12% sequential uplift which is basically what we've seen in the past several December quarters. Just wondering what you see on the outlook there that gives you the confidence that we have a similar type of uplift heading into the December quarter here.

CHRIS LIDDELL: What I actually said was our outlook for the year is 8 to 12. So I think I talked about 10 to 12 for the second quarter and 8 to 12 for the full year. Now, to the extent that the front half is around 10 to 12 and the year is 8 to 12, the implication just on simple averages is that the back half of the year we're saying 6 to 12. So that's a lot wider range and it's also on average lower. So we are more cautious as the year goes on about not only the overall level of growth, but also the variability in that growth.

So if you take the average of that number, let's say 9% on the back half, that's a couple of points lower on average than the first half of the year and also with a much wider spread. So we're pretty conservative on what the back half of the year might look like, and in particular, where the growth might come from. So we think certainly Netbooks growth will continue to be relatively robust, emerging markets will be; but in the back half of the year, we're feeling pretty cautious about in particular mature markets, core PC growth. That could be flat to single digits.

PHIL WINSLOW: And then just for the December quarter, just with the holiday season so forth, just the outlook heading into that, that's why I mentioned the 10% to 12%, sort of just the uplift that implies sequentially.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sorry, it's 10% to 12% for the December quarter; and that would be, again, sort of single to mid-digits for the mature markets, solid double digits for the emerging markets and then probably about a 5 percentage point uplift as a result of Netbooks. Is that the question you were asking?

PHIL WINSLOW: That's perfect. Thank you.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay, great.

BILL KOEFEOD: Thanks, Phil.

Operator, this will be our last question.

OPERATOR: And our last question comes from Israel Hernandez from Barclays Capital.

ISRAEL HERNANDEZ, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Good afternoon, everyone.

Chris, how should we be thinking about Microsoft's M&A strategy as we move through this downcycle? Do you see an opportunity to perhaps accelerate the pace as valuations come in? I'm not talking necessarily specifically around the Yahoo! situation, but more generally with respect to enterprise software.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Clearly, the benefit this environment has to us, if there is one, is in lower asset prices and we continue to be a net acquirer of businesses. Last year, as you know, we bought around 24, so two a month; and we will continue to buy in particular in the small and medium size businesses which are our real sweet spot. I see our real constraint is not capital but simply our ability to integrate.

I don't see us necessarily increasing the volume of acquisitions, and in fact a lot of people will see this as a difficult time to sell because they'll see their prices as being depressed; but to the extent that we do buy, which I think we will continue to, then it's likely to cost us less than it would have otherwise. So generally it's going to be a good environment for us and clearly relatively speaking we're still very cash rich. So we're certainly not constrained from a capital point of view in buying companies. It's very much around do they fit the product road map and do we have the people and management capability to integrate them.

ISRAEL HERNANDEZ: Thank you.

BILL KOEFEOD: Great.

So that will wrap up our Q&A portion of today's earnings call. Remember that you can access this call on the Microsoft investor central website at www.Microsoft.com/MSFT.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your line at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | e1101 : Economic Growth | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020081030e4an002xx
  


 HD
 Q4  2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,258 words
   PD
17 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft 2008 fourth quarter and fiscal year-end conference call. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. And during the question-and-answer session (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Ma'am, you may begin.

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today's call will start with Chris, providing some key takeaways for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2008 (technical difficulty) [who will] review expectations for fiscal year '09. I will then provide details around our fourth quarter results, and then hand it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and first quarter of fiscal 2009. After that, we'll take your questions.

Our earnings release including an addendum of financial highlights, which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance, and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures (technical difficulty).

(technical difficulty) financial highlights in the quarterly financial (technical difficulty) Investor Relations website at www.microsoft.com/ (technical difficulty). Today's call [was] recorded (technical difficulty) recording. As always, (technical difficulty) Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the [same] site at the close of business on July (technical difficulty) 2009.

This conference call (technical difficulty) recorded is protected by a copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the [text] audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in our most recent Form 10-K, subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP AND CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. I will start today's call with a few highlights from the year and then gave you an overview of our expectations for fiscal year 2009.

Quarter four results capped off an outstanding year for the Company in terms of both operating and financial performance. All three of our key financial measures met or exceeded the guidance we provided entering the year, despite a challenging economic environment. For the year, revenue, operating income and earnings per share increased 18%, 21%, and 32% respectively.

Furthermore, the 18% revenue growth represents our first annual revenue growth in almost a decade. These results demonstrate the breadth of our business model, revenue growth being fueled by strong customer demand for our products and services across all of our businesses. Our core businesses of Client Microsoft Business division and Server and Tools turned in fantastic results, growing revenue a combined 15% in the year. The On-line Service business grew revenue 32%, while Entertainment and Devices Division was up 34% for the year.

Looking at the fiscal year results from a geographic perspective, revenue in the US increased approximately 15%. Other mature markets were up 16%, and emerging markets grew a tremendous 35%.

Now for a couple of key points on our outlook for fiscal 2009 with our planning and budgeting process in place. (technical difficulty) Our revenue and operating income growth [strengths] has remained relatively consistent with what we told you in April. Specifically, we expect revenue growth of 11% to 13%; operating income growth of 17% to 20%; and earnings per share growth (technical difficulty) [%].

Since we last gave you guidance, we've increased investments in three ways -- first, we've continued to make a number of important inorganic acquisitions. We are taking (technical difficulty) of the current environment [to effect] a positive one to acquire companies, if you are in the fortunate position of having a strong balance sheet and a willingness to take a long-term view.

Second, we've increased organic investments and operating expenses, driven in particular by a deliberate decision to invest more aggressively in our online services strategy.

Last, we remain committed to investing in ourselves, through our ongoing share repurchases. For the year, we repurchased over 12 billion of our stock, with 5 billion of that amount occurring in the fourth quarter.

One final comment before we get into the details. Clearly, we're disappointed that our strong financial results are not reflected in our share price because of general market turbulence combined with Microsoft specific issues, including the uncertainty of the outcome of Yahoo discussions. In this environment, we remain focused on driving the factors inside our control; in particular from my perspective, improving long-term earnings per share.

I'm satisfied that despite difficult economic conditions, should we achieve the middle of our guidance for fiscal year '09, we will have increased our earnings per share from $1.42 to $2.15 in two years, an increase of 50% over that period.

With those high level themes for 2008 and 2009, I am going to turn the call over to Colleen now for more details on how we closed out the last year.

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. The fourth quarter was a solid finish to an outstanding year. For the quarter, we met our top and bottom line items, driven by 18% revenue growth. Let me provide you with details of our financial performance starting with revenue. I'll discuss top line financial and business (technical difficulty), and then follow with revenue performance for each of the business units. Then I will review the rest of the income statements. All growth comparisons relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.

Revenue grew 18% to [$15.8 billion] with every business growing in the mid-teens or higher. Our annuity sales mix, which is approximately 40% of our billing revenue, continued to grow on both a year-over-year and sequential basis, with enterprise agreement renewal rates in line with historical trends. The remainder of our product billings for the quarter was approximately 25% from OEMs; around 15% from license-only sales; and the balance from our other businesses.

Our unearned revenue grew 21% to $15.3 billion, over $600 million above our high-end guidance. Our contracted [non-sales] balance increased both sequentially and year-over-year to over $13 billion, about $3 billion above when we started the fiscal year. When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company grew 23%, driven by over 20% bookings growth for our core businesses of Server and Tool, Client, and the Microsoft Business Division. Overall, changes in foreign exchange rates added about 4 percentage points to our revenue growth.

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment, starting with Client and its biggest driver, the PC market.

We estimate that the PC unit growth rate for the quarter returns to the 12% to 14% range that we experienced in the first half of the fiscal year. This is about 3 points above our forecast, due to improvements in mature markets, including in the United States. This helped to drive client revenue growth of 15% to $4.4 billion, which was over $150 million above our high-end guidance.

During the quarter, our OEM license units increased by 22%, about 9 points faster than the overall hardware market. OEM unit growth outpaced that of the PC market, primarily driven by a couple of factors. One, our OEM partners always have channel fluctuations; with this quarter, we estimate we're a combination of replenishing the channel from lower Q3 levels, as well as buying to hit some pricing tiers during the quarter. And two, we returned to the trend of making gains on piracy, including in Asia.

OEM revenue increased by 13%. The difference between OEM revenue and unit growth is due to three trends, which you are already well familiar. One, volume mix shift towards emerging markets, which generally have more ASPs. Two, channel mix shift towards large OEM's with volume pricing. And three, premium mix shift toward consumer premium offering.

Specifically, while business and consumer premium units were up year-on-year, and the overall OEM premium mix remained unchanged from the prior year at 72%, the premium mix composition shifted down 4 points of business premiums and up 4 points of consumer premiums.

The remaining roughly 20% of client revenue comes from commercial and retail licensing. This portion of the business grew over 20%, driven by continued strength in client annuity licensing, as business customers continue to demand our enterprise offerings, including those that help them more efficiently manage their desktop infrastructure.

During the quarter, we surpassed the $180 million mark for Windows Vista licenses sold to date. And Windows Vista had a driven client revenue to an average growth rate of 16% since it became generally available.

Moving to Server and Tools, revenue was $3.7 billion, growing an outstanding 21% on top of the strain of Q4 double digit growth quarters. And this quarter marks the Group's 24th consecutive quarter of double digit growth.

Next, for annuity contracts, covering our Server and Tools offering, continued during the quarter, driving Server and Tools, (technical difficulty) [unearned] revenues increased 37% from the beginning of the year. This customer commitment to (technical difficulty) [existing] contracts demonstrates the increasingly critical role our server products perform and information technology infrastructure, as well as an increasing interest in the value offered in our long-term product roadmap. Demand for our consulting and support services remains strong, driving associated revenue growth [of] 30%.

On the product front during the quarter, we released our eagerly anticipated virtualization feature, Hyper-V, two months ahead of schedule. We also made significant progress on SQL Server 2008, which is targeted for release during [this] the first quarter of fiscal year 2009. Online Services Business grew revenue 24% to $838 million. Online advertising grew 18%, including $33 million of ad revenue from aQuantive. While both search queries and page views are up and in line with expectations, monetization [last], driven by tightening advertising budgets combined with a more competitive display pricing environment.

We continue to attract users to our properties with live IDs hitting 460 million, up 80 million from last year. And we grew the number of advertisers utilizing our advertising platform by 28% during the year. We closed the acquisitions of THERCAST, which offered a technology to aid in the purchase of online tickets at the lowest price, and Navic Networks, which develops tools to deliver target ads to television set-top boxes.

In May, we announced the beta launch of Live Search Cashback. Since then, we have 680 merchants participating in the program, with about 200,000 registered users.

Microsoft Business Division revenue was up 14% to $5.3 billion. The business element of MBD revenue grew almost $700 million or 19% on both strong enterprise agreement signings and license-only sales. Consumer revenue declined $66 million, down 7%. This reflects both a difficult comparison to last year's quarter following the Office 2007 launch and a continuation of a shift towards our lower priced consumer SKUs.

Our emerging business product momentum continues, with share point revenue up over 30% and unified communications revenue up over 20%. During the quarter, we completed the acquisition of Fast Search & Transfer, expanding our spectrum of enterprise search solutions for customers. Our dynamics business also had a good quarter, with customer billings growth of 22% and two product releases -- Dynamic AX2009 and Dynamic CRM Online. Dynamic's CRM continues to deliver the function and flexibility customers want, evidenced by over 120,000 CRM seats being sold in the quarter.

Entertainment and Devices Division grew revenue 37%, to $1.6 billion. We sold 1.3 million Xbox 360 consoles, representing 88% growth over the prior year, and passing the milestone of 20 million consoles sold life to date. In May, we announced that Xbox Live reached 12 million members; roughly doubling in membership for each of the last two years.

Software attach rates continued to lead the industry at 7.7 software titles per console. As it was evident at E3 earlier this week, the interactive entertainment business was extremely busy during the quarter, procuring industry-leading media content providers such as Netflix, NBC, Universal, Constantine, MGM International, as well as developing innovative new gaming and social experiences that will continue to expand our audiences.

The mobility business within the Entertainment and Devices Division completed the acquisition of Danger, and released System Center Mobile Device Manager 2008, which has created the opportunity for our sales force to partner with customers' IT departments, helping them manage their mobile device assets with capabilities similar to those already used to manage PCs. And Microsoft Surface moved into early commercial deployment in AT&T stores and in Harrah's Reno Casino.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Adjusting last year for the impact of the $1.1 billion charge related to the expansion of the Xbox 360 warranty policy, cost of revenue as a percent of sales increased 1 point to 18%, driven by increasing Xbox 360 console sales, costs associated with the growth of our consulting and support services, as well as data center equipment and online content [expanse] expenses in our online service business.

Operating expenses increased $1.1 billion or 19%, driven primarily by headcount-related costs, acquisition-related expenses, and marketing-related expenses. Expenses came in $500 million higher than our guidance, split rather evenly between cost of revenue and operating expenses.

First, cost of revenue. We sold more Xbox 360 consoles than our guidance had reflected. In Server and Tools, the higher revenue growth in our consulting and support services carried higher associated costs than does software revenue. In our Online Services business, we were able to bring servers in our data centers online faster than expected, and we invested in premium online content, [which is higher] created at an agency expense associated with it.

Moving on to operating expenses, we took advantage of the economic environment out there to attract top talent to the Company, yielding higher close rates and filling headcount openings. Also, across a number of our businesses, we spent more in product development in an effort to ready marketing campaigns. And foreign currency rates presented some headwinds.

Operating income was $5.7 billion, up 42%, or 13% after adjusting for the impact of the warranty-related charge in the year-ago period. Investment income and others totaled $284 million, as the Microsoft Treasury team continues to successfully navigate a challenging capital market environment.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 28%, a couple of points lower than expected, driven by an earnings mix increased and lower tax jurisdictions. During the quarter, we repurchased [171] million shares or almost $5 billion of Company stock, and paid out about $1 billion in dividends to shareholders. Diluted shares outstanding were 9.4 billion, down 3% from the prior year as a result of share repurchases. Earnings per share were $0.46, in line with our guidance, and growing 48% or 18% after adjusting for the warranty-related charge in the prior year.

So, in summary, we had our fastest-growing fourth quarter revenue since 1999. Adjusted for the year-ago Xbox warranty charge, operating income and EPS grew 13% and 18%, respectively.

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our first quarter and full year guidance for fiscal 2009.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Colleen. I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call talking about what we see coming for the full year and for the first quarter. Let me begin by outlining some of our key assumptions around the economy and general demand in the industry.

The forecast generally assumes a continuation of the economic conditions and demand we experienced in the fourth quarter to continue into the first half of fiscal year '09, with some improvement over the second half of the year. We expect PC unit demand to remain healthy with growth rates similar to those in 2008. Specifically, we expect PC unit growth for fiscal 2009 to be 12% to 14% for the year, and between 10% to 12% into the first quarter. We estimate the growth rates to continue to be driven by roughly 20% growth in emerging markets, with high single digit growth in mature markets.

Now, let me go through our detailed guidance for the full year. We expected our revenue to come in between $67.3 billion to $68.1 billion, growing 11% to 13%. For the first quarter, we expect revenue of $14.7 billion to $14.9 billion, which represents an increase of 7% to 8%.

With that, revenue guidance by business group is as follows -- for Client, we expect full year growth to be 9% to 10%; for Q1 growth to be 6% to 7%. The PC market growth will outpace that of Client revenue because of a continuation of the underlying PC market dynamics, mainly emerging markets PC growth outpacing mature markets; consumer growth exceeding business growth; and the shift in the system, both channel to large OEM.

Server and Tools revenue should be up 18% to 19% for the year, and 19% to 20% for the first quarter. Coming off another impressive year of growth in fiscal '08, the Server and Tools business is expected to continue to show double digit growth across the breadth of our server platform products and services, driven by strong customer demand for the recently refreshed Windows server and Visual Studio offerings, and the soon-to-be-available SQL Server 2008.

We forecast revenue in the Online Services Business to increase 18% to 20% for the year, and 7% to 11% the first quarter. The advertising component of revenue is expected to grow at approximately 25% for the year and 15% per quarter. Our Q1 guidance assumes a continuation of the challenging online advertising market experienced in the fourth quarter. We expect revenue growth to accelerate through the year, as we begin seeing revenue returns from the additional investments we're making in the business.

Microsoft Business Division revenue should be up 14% to 15% for the year and 15% to 16% in the first quarter. We should continue to see business demand for the Microsoft Office 2007, SharePoint and Dynamic products. Combined with growth in our emerging unified communication and business intelligence offering, this will drive another year of very strong growth.

Fiscal 2009 also represents an important year in delivering on our Software Plus Services strategy, with the upcoming releases of Exchange Online, SharePoint Online, and Office Communications Online later this calendar year.

The Entertainment and Devices Division, we expect revenue to be down 4% to flat the full year, and down 23% to 26% in Q1. The strong customer demand for Halo 3, following its launch in fiscal 2008, makes a challenging year-over-year comparison in the Entertainment and Devices Division. But having said that, we remain committed to a profitable performance in fiscal year '09.

Turning back to company-wide performance, operating income for the year is expected to be between $26.3 billion and $26.9 billion, increasing 17% to 20% or 10% to 12% in excluding certain tax and legal charges in fiscal 2008. For the first quarter, we expect operating income to be between $5.9 billion and $6 billion.

Q1 operating income includes the impact of increased spending associated with our Online Services Business, costs associated with a number of new acquisitions, and investments in a Windows Consumer Marketing campaign.

I would like to address the overall impact -- the overall level of -- the impact of the overall level of spend on the Company margin. To do so, as I've talked to you before, we need to look at the three individual parts of the Company that have [distinct] margin structures. The core businesses of Client, Server and Tools, and Microsoft Business Division collectively will have an operating margin in fiscal 2009 that's essentially flat. This performance is obviously very good, given that we're making a number of investments to drive the overall health of the business, and absorbing a number of acquisitions we've made this year, and growing revenue in the mid-teens.

The margin for entertainment and devices should also remain roughly the same year-on-year in fiscal year '09, even without the first party game release of Halo 3's magnitude.

(inaudible) our business is representing over 90% of our revenue will grow double digits next year with the market structure intact. Clearly, the Online Services Business has a totally different dynamic and in a period of significant (inaudible). We do not make these investments lightly, as a loss in this division will be a drag on a otherwise exceptionally good performance. However, we believe that the additional investments, several hundreds of millions of dollars, is worth the short-term costs, given the opportunity to participate in a market where the opportunity is measured in the tens of billions of dollars.

While we are on the call, we'll take a few minutes to frame our reasoning behind the additional Online Services Business investments. I will start with an overview of our core strategy and then provide details into the additional investments.

With the online ad spending expected to reach $80 billion by 2012, this area represents one of the largest growth opportunities for the Company. We segment the market for online advertising in four different categories -- search, advertising platforms, information content, and communications and social networking.

For search, we are focused on driving query share improvements in business model innovation, specifically in the area of high value commercial search. Our recent release Cashback is a good example of executing on our strategy, which combines innovation in the shopping experience for the shift in the distribution of advertiser economic for its end-users. Additionally, we also seek to win targeted distribution through OEMs, ISCs, ISPs, and retailers. The recently announced deal with XP in the US is an example of this.

Turning to the ad platform, our strategy can be summarized to consolidate, win and display, and there we are focused on integrating our advertising efforts into a single comprehensive system that can deliver our publishing partners' industry-leading yields and our advertiser's optimal return on their ad spend.

In the area of communications and social networking, which includes our [Mile] messenger and social networking assets such as Spaces, will delivery the leading end-to-end experiences across the PC, phone and Web.

And finally in the category of information content, we plan to invigorate our [image] in portal experience and improvement in user experience, social media consumption and premium content.

As well as overall advertising revenue, which is clearly the overall measure of success, we have aggressive growth targets in each of the above areas over the next five to 10 years. These targets can be broken down in terms of the percentage of share of worldwide page views, percentage of share of Internet vendors, the percentage of share of search queries, and percentage of the growth of our online advertising dollars to pass through our platform.

Clearly, the Yahoo transaction, which I will make more comments on later, would have accelerated our progress towards these goals. However, during the quarter, a transaction became increasingly unlikely. Further, as you know, during the quarter, Yahoo signed a search outsourcing agreement with Google. Given that environment, we made some decisions to accelerate our online services' organic growth strategy. Mainly, we decided to increase our investment in the high margins scaleable areas of search and ad platform.

About two-thirds of the incremental spend that we are planning is related to investments to drive usage by a search offering. We are dialing up a search distribution initiatives with targeted OEM toolbar [Ult-6] deals, scaling search globally with investments in localized engineering and data centers; procuring acquisitions and partnerships to build vertical content to support our commercial strategy; accelerating the rollout of our Cashback program; and increasing marketing and investments to grow awareness and drive traffic.

Second, we're upping the investments in our ad platforms, aimed at increasing the number of advertisers and high quality inventory on our platform. Specifically, these investments are in the area of accelerating the integration of our ad platform assets, expanding our sales and service capabilities, small acquisitions to enhance platform technology, and investments in strategic partnerships to increase third party inventory available to advertisers on our ad platform.

Returning to EPS, our diluted earnings per share for the year are expected to come in at $2.12, $2.18, representing growth of 13% to 17%, 2 to 4 points faster than revenue.

To put this performance in context, as I mentioned at the front of the call, if we achieve the middle of our guidance, we'll have increased earnings per share from $1.42 to $2.15 in two years, an increase of 50%. But first quarter, we expect earnings per share of $0.47 to $0.48, and these earnings assume an effective tax rate of 28%.

From a balance sheet perspective, we expect total unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2009 up 8% to 9%. Contracted, not build, should also finish 2009 up from current levels. When thinking about the sequential changes in unearned revenue from Q4 fiscal year '08 to Q1 fiscal year '09, we expect sequential decrease from Q4 to Q1 to exceed the rate of decline we experienced the last few years.

As always, when thinking about the guidance we provide, you should also consider the risk. These include competitors, legal, execution and general market risks, such as foreign exchange rate movements, fluctuations in PC and server hardware growth rate, IT spending, changes in the piracy rate, and customer acceptance of our new and existing products.

Additionally, changes in the mix of our fillings between annuity and [LIFO finally] can have an impact on revenue operating income and EPS by delaying revenue recognition into future periods.

So, in closing, the strong results of fiscal year '08 with the outcome of both business and engineering execution. In addition to the financial outperformance, we delivered the final phase in our multi-year product [risk] cycle with the availability of Windows Server 2008, and Visual Studio 2008, and are well positioned to continue that momentum into fiscal 2009.

The next fiscal year will be an important year driving mass adoption across a portfolio of products. With our breadth of products and global diversification, we are confident in our ability to continue to deliver double digit revenue increases, even off our base of over $60 billion. And we will continue to use that strong cash flow to invest in our organic growth, inorganic growth through acquisitions, and in our sells through buyback.

Before I hand the call back to Colleen, I wanted to take a moment to clarify the terms of our recent proposal for a search transaction with Yahoo. Given the upcoming Yahoo shareholder meeting, I won't be taking any questions on this topic in the Q&A session that will follow this presentation, and we won't be providing any additional comments on that, as we've already discussed.

But with that, let me outline you the key elements of our proposal. Firstly, we are providing significant revenue guarantees. Microsoft proposed a 10-year minimum revenue guarantee totaling between [19.5 billion and $26.5 billion]. For the first five years, the guarantee is $2.3 billion per year; thereafterwards, both Yahoo and Microsoft have the option to extend the agreement for an additional five-year period. If Yahoo unilaterally chooses to extend the agreement, the guarantee would be for $1.6 billion per year after the extension. Conversely, if Microsoft unilaterally chooses to extend the agreement, the guarantee to Yahoo would be $3 billion per year after the extension. These guarantees are not conditional on Yahoo search queries; rather the guarantees are tied to Yahoo's home page performance.

Our proposal includes an 85% tech rates for the first three years of the agreement and 70% thereafter. Microsoft would pay Yahoo $1 billion for its search assets, provide $2.8 billion of senior debt to Yahoo on favorable terms; and make a significant equity investment in Yahoo through the purchase of $3.9 billion of Yahoo's stock at $19.50 per share, reflecting our view of the value of the company as a result of that proposed transaction, and the distribution of cash and the Yahoo Asian investments by Yahoo to its stockholders.

I should also note that Microsoft's proposal did not and does not include changes to Yahoo's governance. We clearly continue to believe that our proposal is a compelling one.

With that, I am going to hand the call back to Colleen so we can get started taking your questions. And I clearly look forward to seeing a number of you at our financial analysts meeting, which is next Thursday. Thanks.

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and limit yourselves to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: Okay, thank you. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks for taking my question. Chris, just firstly, could you give us a little bit of your overview on the macroenvironment and how that has changed when you think back to giving earnings three months ago?

And then just on your cash flow, it came in a little weaker than we were anticipating. DSOs were up higher than we have seen and perhaps ever for Microsoft. Was there a collections issue? More back end loading? If you could perhaps talk to the weakness there.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. Okay, taking those in turn -- in terms of the macroenvironment, it is broadly speaking the same as what we were expecting in April. Clearly people are getting concerned now about the length of softness here in the US. But as you are seeing for revenue, we have taken it up slightly since April. So in terms of the visibility into our products, we are actually feeling very good about our position, not only here in the US but outside the US.

As I mentioned in my comments, if you look at the Company overall, our sales in the US in the year that we've just completed were up 15%. The Company overall is up 18%. So clearly we grew faster outside the US than we did inside the US. But at 15%, given -- it's been a difficult environment for a number of companies, growing at 15% off our base was very good.

So going into next year, we are clearly cautious, like everyone is, about the impact of the environment, but for our products overall, we're feeling very good. I'd say the one proviso to that is in the online advertising space, where we are seeing a direct impact. It was weak in the fourth quarter and I think you're seeing from results of other companies some weakness in that general space. So, there is a direct impact and we are not immune to that in the online space. And we'll probably see that continuing certainly for the next quarter. But overall, in terms of that core business growth, that feels very good.

In terms of your other questions on cash flow, the biggest thing in the cash flow that was probably a negative was the payment of the fine to the EU, which was over $1 billion, so -- $1.5 billion. So that was clearly a big negative from a cash flow point of view. Other than that, there really wasn't anything remarkable from a cash flow point of view. In fact, it was quite a strong quarter, given the results overall.

COLLEEN HEALY: And on a DSL standpoint, Q4 seasonally does tend to be a little higher than some of the other quarters. We do close a lot of business. And our fiscal Q4 as the sales force is out there closing deals. But we didn't see anything unusual from a DSO standpoint.

CHRIS LIDDELL: But overall, I'd say revenue growth of 18% last year, guiding to revenue growth of 11% to 13%. So you combine those and say it is 30% broadly for the two years that cover what was hopefully the worst of the economic conditions, so we are feeling good about it.

COLLEEN HEALY: Okay, thanks, Sarah. Next question, please?

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I was just wondering, Chris, if you could talk a little bit about the OSB business. Given how far behind you guys are, if you are unsuccessful in getting all or even a part of Yahoo, can you walk us through how you are going to be able to compete with Google?

And also, are we in a critical period here in this segment, where if you continue to go down the path of going into loan, that we are going to be seeing this accelerating spending from current levels so that it is going to adversely impact overall op margins; so we're actually not going to see op margins expand for the next two years? Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, sure. Okay, overall, clearly, regardless of what happens with Yahoo, it is a space that we are committed to. I said that in the prepared remarks and it is one that we're committed to on a long-term basis. I would split the market, as I did in my prepared remarks, into four areas, of which search is only one -- ad platform, communications, social networking, and information content being the other ones. And clearly, we have a very good position in information content and communications and an ad platform with the acquisition of aQuantive. So we feel very good about our relative position in those areas and a number of our investments are going into that.

In the search area, clearly, that's the one we are, relatively speaking, we are the most behind. And that is why we're taking a different approach; which again, I mentioned in the prepared remarks, where we are focusing in particular on the areas of search where there is a strong commercial intent of verticals like retail, travel, real estate, local -- we're looking at different approaches where we might potentially take a disruptive and business model, for example, Cashback, and then looking at winning distribution deals.

Now in the short term, that isn't going to make the division profitable. And I think clearly from our guidance that is not the case. So as I said in the remarks, if you look at the operating margins structure of the Company, you really have to look at the three distinct businesses. We feel good about the margins structure for our core businesses, in particular, growing double digit revenue. On entertainment and devices will be broadly flat but online is going to be negative.

HEATHER BELLINI: Chris, yes, I totally get what you're saying. I guess the question that I'm getting asked a lot is -- how long are you going to spend the -- you're obviously performing well on the top line, but you're spending the upside, so that -- where people aren't getting margin expansion. I guess the question that I am getting at is how long should we expect that to continue?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, we're not going to make -- and certainly, on this call, we're not going to give guidance for fiscal year '10 and '11. Some of these investments that we are making will be multi-year. So it will depend to a large extent on our revenue growth as to when that division becomes profitable. So, it will need to continue to grow relatively substantially in order to cover the level of investments that we are making.

But it is going to be -- and I think we've made this point on previous calls -- it is going to be an investment-heavy area. In particular, things like the ad platform, where we you see a convergence of two natural players over time, of which we clearly would expect to be one. And that's an area where spending in particular on infrastructure is likely to be high. So, I can't promise you that you are going to see a massive turnaround in the short term and certainly fiscal year '09, which is the year that we're going to today, it is going to be a continuation of an investment.

But again, put it in the context of what we would describe as the overall opportunity and the size of the Company overall.

OPERATOR: Charles DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I would like to circle back to the Q4 results and really particularly the margins here. I think the Xbox issue is fairly straightforward, but in something like five of the last eight Q4's, you guys have had an issue of not being disappointing on margins. And maybe you can give us some color and comfort on sort of what looks to be like a fairly persistent control issue in Q4, and in some cases, it looks like you might be pulling some expenses forward. Are we going to see that in the fiscal '09 numbers?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, I always distinguish between the costs which were, if you like, a function of the revenue, a function of decisions that we made and functions of unexpected low quality spend, if you like. But to give you some comfort, it's the areas that we spent more of in fourth quarter were more orientated in the first two. For example, on the revenue side, we sold more Xboxes, so we had more COGS. That's good news. Okay? We don't make any money from those, but overall, in terms of long-term health in the business, the more consoles we sell, the better.

And Server and Tools, our higher Enterprise Services revenue carries higher COGS with it. Again, that is just a factor of it. So the mix inside Server and Tools might not be as strong as you would like from a revenue point of view, but that's just a natural consequence.

In terms of decisions that we made, we have budgeted headcount on people hired to their budgeted levels. That is a good thing in the sense that we actually hired people that we want to hire. And we were particularly successful. I think that is a reflection to a large extent of the economic environment and the fact that, if anything, at the moment we are an even more attractive company than we have been to people.

So again, that hits us from an expense point of view, but I have described one of the categories, it is a conscious decision to hire people.

In terms of things that are outside our control, FX was a factor. FX has been our friend pretty much throughout the year in terms of driving more revenue upside than more expense. Net-net it has been a positive, clearly because we have more revenue outside the US than we do expenses.

In the fourth quarter, it was an unusual quarter in that we hired a lot of people outside the US. And the mix of expenses was such that the FX impact was higher in OpEx than it was in revenue. If you look across the year, that's not the case, but in the quarter it was.

So I'm comfortable that there's not any lack of control over spending. Most of the decisions I have talked about were either conscious ones or a reflection of better revenue performance in certain areas.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Thank you very much. It looks like the stepping up of investments in the Online Services Business seems like the right thing to do. I'm just curious, Chris, but I would have expected that to be accompanied by an increase to the revenue guidance. Yet and you look back over the last 12 months, if I exclude aQuantive, I still come up with much faster revenue growth in the Online Services Business. So my question is, is the return on these investments going to take more than one year lag to show up in the financials? Or is there some conservativism in how you're budgeting for the revenue productivity as a result of these investments? Is there a longer lag to these OpEx investments?

And also, maybe three or four seconds of your thoughts on [prime] guidance. I know Colleen didn't want to answer multipart questions, but I couldn't resist this. The 6% to 7% growth absent currency looks to be very low on the 2% to 3% side. I'm just curious what was the thought process that went into that guidance as well? Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay, sure. Kash, you went blank through the start of your question, so if I don't cover it exactly, please come to me; we missed just the first few words of your question.

But in terms of online spending, is it likely to be more of a fiscal year ['10] impact on revenue, the answer is yes. And that is not only because of the nature of some of the investments that we are making, things like marketing Cashback. That is going to take time in terms of seeing the real impact from that.

But also, just because, as I mentioned in, I think, Sarah's question, the online advertising area is probably the part of the business, certainly in the short-term, which we think is most challenging. From an economic environment point of view, we have actually done remarkably well in our commercial businesses and overall for PCs -- getting through difficult and choppy economic waters. The online advertising area appears very difficult at the moment. I think that is across the board. That is not just us.

So I don't want to promise -- we might see benefits for example, in share, but I'm not sure whether that share is necessarily in [best display] in the search area. Again, it translates in the -- certainly in the first six months and possibly across the year to significant revenue growth. But I think you could expect to see us make progress in the years that I've talked about, which is the underlying dynamics, the driver, the percentage minutes, percent of share, et cetera. That is really how we're going to have to measure ourselves over the next year.

I think the second half of your question was client-specific, is that right?

KASH RANGAN: That's correct, yes.

CHRIS LIDDELL: In the 6% to 7%, yes, that is relatively light. To some extent, it is because of the very high, strong quarter 1 that we had last year. If you will recall, we had a very strong quarter 1 piracy performance last year. It is also part of the strong Q4 performance from this year, which Colleen mentioned in the prepared remarks, was some channel inventory. If you like, it was very strong unit growth in quarter four of fiscal year '08. Some of that was because of a weak Q3. You will recall that Q3 call, we talked about some of the inventory issues there and that was one of the reasons why Q3 of last year was weak. So like a bit of a borrowing from Q3 into Q4, and also we think a little bit of a -- some of our customers brought forward from Q1 into Q4 as well.

So that is one of the reasons. The other is we are about 10% to 12% PC unit growth expectation, which relative to the year of 12% to 14%, we are just seeing that quarter as being one of the low points. So, you combine all of those factors and in fact, that is going to be the lowest revenue growth quarter for Client in the year.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Chris, the overall buyback for '08 was more than cut in half from '07. Obviously it is understandable considering the acquisition strategy, but I guess as it relates to the overall plan, you only have $3 billion left on the current $36 billion plan. How aggressive at 25 and change will you be with the stock here?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay, yes, going backwards and then go forwards. Backwards, yes, you're right, it was lower than the previous year. One of the reasons for that is we were getting down to a level of cash that we feel more comfortable with. So there was some accelerated buying in the previous year.

The other impact was we [played at] the aQuantive acquisition, which was relatively expensive this year. And last factor is when we announced the Yahoo acquisition earlier this year, we went out of the market, both from a sensitivity point of view and clearly, at that stage we are [envisioning] having to use a large part of that cash for the acquisition. Subsequent in May when it was clear that the overall transaction wasn't going to happen, we went back into the market and we've been buying at levels that are more like historic levels.

So those are the reasons why we've been less in the year. It was $5 billion I believe for the quarter. So it was a reasonably strong buyback quarter.

Clearly at these prices it is incredibly attractive from a buyback perspective. I can't tell you as I never do on a quarter by quarter basis exactly how much we will buy back. You are right that we only have about $3 billion worth of our buyback left. That's good news in the sense that I think we gotten ourselves through 2012 to complete it. So we can put it a little ahead of schedule.

What we do here is we complete the current buyback, then we go back to the Board for authorization of any subsequent buyback. And that will be exactly the process that we'll do here. And when we get authorization from the Board to do further buybacks, we would clearly announce the amount at that stage. But certainly wouldn't announce exactly the shape of what we do. But clearly, the value of the Company relative to the last three years is as good as it's been.

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, Morgan Stanley.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a question about Office and MBD. Obviously, Office 2007 has been a terrific product cycle. But MBD has been a little bit light, relative to guidance for the last couple of quarters. Could you maybe talk about where you think we are in the Office 2007 cycle? And what gives you confidence that we will see a re-acceleration of growth in MBD next year versus what we saw in the back half of this year?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, over all, obviously, the MBD division did extremely well last year. So, put that in context. But you are right in the sense that Office was slightly lighter than we might have thought -- mainly, to be honest, in the consumer area. And that's around lower priced SKUs and retail. So we are seeing more of a bias in the volume that we are seeing. Volumes are very good and business sales are very good, but the volumes on the retail side tend to be more in the lower priced SKUs, so that's having an impact overall.

But the overall volume and the overall adoption and reaction to Office 2007 has been extremely good. So we feel good and we've put it inside a business group, which grew at 15% to 20% last year.

ADAM HOLT: So as we look at it next year, should we be thinking about Dynamics and SharePoint being the key drivers? Or should we expect Office to reaccelerate?

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think those emerging products are certainly going to make a big difference. We're guiding 14% to 15%. That's very good. I mean, Office is unlikely to grow at 14% to 15%. It is likely to grow at more like high to single digits. But the other part of the business will grow extremely well. And that could average up to 14% to 15%; so you are up SharePoint, Office Communications, some of the online services that we're bringing in will start to have an impact. So, overall, [it could] now our biggest division in terms of revenue, 14% to 15% looks very good.

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Just looking at the $500 million in expenses that you're talking about, how should we think about that trending through the year? And then depending on any outcome from an acquisition perspective, would you look to accelerate that investment or de-accelerate that investment? Thanks.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. It has fairly different dynamics. In terms of the consumer marketing, that is probably going to be front loaded in the year. And one of the reasons for first quarter being relatively light compared to the other quarters would be some of the marketing spend that we see in the first quarter. In terms of some of the online spending, that is probably going to be more progressive through the year.

In terms of acquisitions, that's really going to be opportunistic. We closed a lot in the fourth quarter. So one of the things that is impacting our results is clearly the amount of non-cash amortization associated with acquisitions. And that was relatively substantial last year; it was over $300 million. We don't call that out, as some companies do and take the benefit of adjusting our results to reflect it. We take that fully through the P&L. And next year, in terms of the guidance we have given you, we expect it to be more than $300 million.

How much more and exactly the shape will depend on acquisitions. We have an expectation of it that we build in, but it will grow progressively through the year. It is all non-cash but will continue to take the full impact through to P&L.

ROBERT BREZA: That's helpful. Thank you.

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Robert. And our last question, please, Operator.

OPERATOR: And the last question comes from Kirk Materne with Banc of America Securities.

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Yes, thanks very much. Chris, you talked in the guidance just on [entertainment] devices about maintaining profitability. Given that there is no new cycle of the hardware this year, is there any reason why profitability shouldn't start to trend up as attach rates get better? Is there anything going on in that business that's going to require, say, more advertising dollars or spending in that?

CHRIS LIDDELL: One of the impacts obviously is we dropped prices during the course of last year. So year-on-year, we have slightly different -- difficult price comparisons. The other thing is there is more than just Xbox sitting in there. There's obviously Windows Mobile, which has got a lot of opportunities. So there are other areas that we'll be [standing on].

We aren't, in the CapEx today, giving any guidance on profitability. My comment was simply that it will remain the sustainable profitability. But we're not saying whether that's going to be significantly up or down from where it was last year.

KIRK MATERNE: Okay, thanks very much.

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you. And thank you to everyone for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. We're very much looking forward to seeing you at our financial analysts meeting next week.

As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close the business, July 17, 2009. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-515-1618 or for international calls, dial 203-369-2027. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business July 25, 2008. Thanks again for joining us today.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And that concludes today's call. Please disconnect your line at this time.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080724e47h001md
  


 HD
 Q3  2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,399 words
   PD
24 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft third-quarter earnings call. At this time all participants are in a listen-only mode. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Ma'am, you may begin.

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, MICROSOFT: Thank you, and good afternoon everyone. This afternoon I'm joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the third quarter of fiscal year 2008 and an overview of expectations for what remains of the fiscal year. I will then provide detail around our third quarter results and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the fourth quarter and a preliminary outlook for fiscal year '09. After that, we'll take your questions.

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and the quarterly financial summary, slide deck, at the investor relations web site at www.Microsoft.com/MSFT.

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording.

As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations web site. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on April 24, 2009.

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.

Because we will be discussing on this call our proposal to purchase all of the outstanding shares of Yahoo!, we're providing the following statement. This conference call does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities or solicitation of any vote or approval. The material covered in this conference call is not a substitute for the prospectus or proxy statement Microsoft would have to file with the Securities and Exchange Commission if an agreement between Microsoft and Yahoo! is reached or for any other documents which Microsoft may file with the SEC and sent to Yahoo! stockholders in connection with the proposed transaction.

Investors and security holders of Yahoo! are urged to read any such document filed with the SEC carefully in their entirety when they become available because they will contain important information about the proposed transaction.

Statements on this communication that are forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the risk factors and MD&A section of our Form 10-Q, or 2007 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. Actual results also could differ materially because of factors such as Microsoft's ability to achieve the synergies and value creation contemplated by the proposed transaction with Yahoo!, Microsoft's ability to promptly and effectively integrate the business of Yahoo! and Microsoft, the timing to consummate the proposed transaction and any necessary actions to obtain required regulatory approvals and the diversion of management's time on transaction-related issues. You may obtain copies of Microsoft's SEC reports and filings by contacting our investor relations department at 1-800-285-7772 or at our web site at www.Microsoft.com/MSFT.

All information in this conference call is as of today, April 24, 2008. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements to conform to statements to actual results or changes in the Company's expectations.

Okay, with that, let me know turn it over to Chris.

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon everyone. The strength of our third quarter results demonstrates the benefits of our diversified business model. As you will see, our broad span across geographies, product categories and customer segments is a tremendous asset in any economic environment and produced third-quarter results of 14% revenue growth normalized for the tech guarantees and 27% earnings per share adjusted for the tech guarantee, legal charges and tax benefits, beating our earnings per share guidance by $0.02 to $0.04.

Let me mention a few highlights of our third quarter performance before turning to guidance. When looking at the drivers of revenue growth this quarter, it's clear that we are reaping the benefits of the diversification of our business. In the first two quarters of the year, our core business of Client and the Microsoft Business divisions significantly outperformed our expectations, and this quarter the Entertainment and Devices division drove our results.

Despite a tough economic environment, this has allowed us to deliver consecutive earnings per share growth of 29%, 32% and 27% this year, adjusted for the tech guarantee, legal charges and tax benefits.

Revenue growth in the Client and Microsoft Business divisions businesses were normalized for the prior-year results, for the impacts of the tech guarantee and retail launch spikes, have combined growth of $700 million, or 9%. Server and Tools had yet another quarter of double-digit revenue growth while kicking off our largest enterprise product launch in the Company's history. Our consumer businesses of Entertainment and Devices division and online service business grew revenue a combined 57%, or over $850 million, and the Treasury Department continued its excellent work, delivering investment income exceeding our forecasts and managing to avoid any significant write-offs at our portfolio, despite the massive dislocation in the financial markets.

In the fourth quarter we expect a strong finish to what has been an excellent year. Revenue, operating income and earnings per share guidance for the year remained largely in line with our January guidance and significantly above our expectations upon entering the year. Since this time last year, our revenue outlook for fiscal '08 has increased by about $3 billion, operating income margins are expected to expand by over a point and earnings per share guidance is higher by $0.18.

On a more macro level, there has been some uncertainty regarding the strength of the IT spending environment, but our business has remained robust in the face of that uncertainty. While, clearly, no business can be immune from the impacts of an economic slowdown, we remain confident in the benefits of our diversified business model and the investment approach we have taken in recent years. We've delivered earnings per share results above the high end of our guidance every quarter this year and have raised our full-year earnings per share guidance in each quarter. We are now expecting earnings per share growth of 33% to 35% this year, normalized for legal charges and tax benefit, which is an outstanding achievement in the current economic environment.

With those high-level themes, I'm going to turn over the call to Colleen for more details of our third quarter performance.

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. It was an excellent quarter with normalized revenue and operating income growth of 14% and 15%, respectively. Normalized EPS growth at 27% was 5 points above high end guidance. Revenue growth was driven by continued enterprise customer demand for our core products as well as consumer demand for products and services in the Entertainment and Devices division and our online services business.

Let me provide you with details of our financial performance, starting with revenue. I'll discuss top line financial and business momentum points and then follow with revenue performance for each of the business units. Then, I'll review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.

Revenue was $14.5 billion. Adjusting the year-ago quarter by the $1.7 billion of revenue recognition primarily related to the Technology Guarantee Program for Windows Vista and Office 2007, total revenue grew 14%. We estimate PC unit growth rates moderated from our January expectations by a couple of points in mature markets, partially offset by an extra point of strength in emerging markets, resulting in an estimate of approximately 8% to 10% for the entire PC market during the quarter.

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was approximately 30% from OEMs, 30% from multi-year agreements, 25% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. Annuity sales mix continued to increase on both a year-over-year and sequential basis while enterprise agreement renewal rates were in line with historical trends. As we guided, our unearned revenue balance was consistent with historical seasonality patterns and remained roughly flat on a sequential basis at $12.1 billion, up 18% year over year. Our contracted/not billed balance, remains above $11.5 billion and increased sequentially, up well over $1 billion from where we started the fiscal year.

When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company grew 14%.

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment, starting with Client. Client revenue of $4 billion was down 24% or down 2% adjusted for the tech guarantees. Adjusting that further for a retail launch bump from last year, Client revenue would have been up 4%.

Let's break down the main drivers behind Client revenue, first for OEM license units and then for OEM revenue. During the quarter our OEM license units increased by 5%, about 4 points lower than the overall hardware market. We believe this reversal of the OEM unit trend, outpacing that of the PC market, was primarily driven by three factors.

One, last year OEMs, particularly in the system builder channel, rebuilt inventory levels following the launch of Windows Vista, driving OEM unit growth over 20% during that quarter and making it a tough comp.

Two, inventory levels at our OEM partners this year were higher than normal, exiting fiscal Q2, impacting this quarter's purchases.

Three, we believe there was an increase in shipments of unlicensed PCs, particularly in Asia. While we generally feel good about the gains we're making against piracy for the year, piracy is a tough battle in an area where we will need to continue investing in order to make progress.

Looking past the individual quarters, PC market growth was up 12% to 14% year to date with OEM license units growing about a point faster, which is in line with our historical rate of progress against piracy. OEM revenue declined 25% but grew a point when normalized for the tech guarantees in the prior year. The 4 percentage point difference between OEM license unit growth and revenue growth was caused by two roughly equivalent factors; namely, the increasing volume in emerging markets and the channel shift to large OEMs from the system builder channel. Partially offsetting these impacts was an increase in premium mix. Premium mix grew 5 points during the quarter to 76%, driven by an increase in the consumer element of the mix while the business portion was unchanged.

The remaining roughly 20% of Client revenue comes from the commercial and retail licensing portion of the business, which declined 18%, or was down 13% after adjusting for tech guarantees.

Normalizing last year's Windows Vista launch bump at approximately $225 million, growth would have been up 23%. We continued to see healthy growth in the commercial portion of the business as sales of software assurance were once again strong, as evidenced by the 29% increase in the Client volume licensing portion of the unearned revenue balance. Since the launch of Windows Vista, revenue for the Client business has grown 16% with a license growth rate of 1 to 2 points above that of the PC hardware market. Over 140 million licenses of Windows Vista have been sold by -- to date and Service Pack One was released in the quarter.

Moving to Server and Tools, revenue up $3.3 billion represented an increase of 18%, marking its 23rd consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Customers continue to gravitate towards premium versions of Windows Server and SQL Server, as well as to annuity contracts. The increased billing mix of annuity contracts drove the unearned revenue balance for the division up by over 35% versus last year. Our consulting and support services revenue increased 24% as we have experienced high demand following the recent launches across our product line.

The third quarter also marked the launch activities for the new versions of our flagship products in the Server and Tools division, namely Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2008. These products bring powerful new tools to our customers and partners looking to turn their IT departments into a strategic asset. For example, Windows Server 2008 with virtualization technology will help customers increase reliability and flexibility of their server infrastructure, reduce cost and increase security.

Online Services business grew revenue 40% to $843 million. This included $143 million from the addition of aQuantive. Online advertising grew 39% or was up 29% excluding the $47 million of ad revenue from aQuantive.

Our Online audience continues to grow. Live IDs increased 18% to $448 million while usage deepened with search queries and page views up from the prior year. In the quarter, we announced a number of acquisitions including Caligari for collaborative 3-D modeling, YaData for customer micro segment management and Rapt for behavioral targeting. And of course, in February, we proposed to purchase Yahoo!. Chris will go into more details about Yahoo! later in the call.

Microsoft Business Division revenue was $4.7 billion, down 2% but up 9% adjusted for tech guarantees in fiscal year 2008. Adjusted for last year's retail launch bump of about $150 million, revenue would have grown 13% with business customer revenue growth of 17%. Our expanded portfolio of productivity products are thriving with share point revenue up over 35%, unified communications up over 20% and dynamic customer billings up 13%.

On the strategic front, we announced acquisition of Fast Search & Transfer to enhance our enterprise search offering. During the quarter, we also held our SharePoint and Convergence conferences, which both saw record attendance by customers and partners. And we expanded on our software plus services division by announcing that the beta of SharePoint online and Exchange online will be open to companies of all sizes.

Entertainment and Devices division grew revenue 68% to $1.6 billion, over $300 million above our high-end guidance, driven by the sale of 1.3 million Xbox 360 consoles. High holiday demand for Xbox 360 consoles during the preceding quarter in which Xbox 360 outsold PlayStation 3 by over 1 million units in the US, led to a short channel inventory for much of this quarter. However, according to US NPD Data, by March Xbox 360 had reclaimed its monthly consoles sales lead over the PS3.

With retail inventory restored to more healthy levels, Xbox 360 is well-positioned as the industry anticipates next week's launch of Grant Theft Auto 4.

During the quarter, we announced acquisition of Danger, which closed last week, and announced the November target release date for Gears of War, the highly anticipated sequel to the fastest selling video game of 2007.

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of revenue increased by $370 million, primarily driven by higher Xbox 360 consoles sales. growth in our consulting business, expansion of data center operations and the addition of aQuantive costs. After adjusting the year-ago quarter for the impact of tech guarantees, cost of revenue held flat at 17% of sales. Operating expenses increased almost $1.9 billion or up 33%, primarily due to $1.4 billion of legal charges relating to the European Commission find assessed in February. Adjusting for that charge in the current quarter at $150 million of legal charges in the same quarter of last year, operating expenses increased $600 million, up 11%. This is favorable to our expectations, due to lower headcount-driven costs and some shift of marketing expense into the fourth quarter.

Operating income was $4.4 billion. After adjusting for the impact of tech guarantees and legal charges, operating income grew 15%, one point faster than revenue growth. Investment income and other totaled $401 million for the quarter as the Treasury team continued to do an outstanding job in challenging capital markets.

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 9%. During the quarter, we settled a 2000 to 2003 examination with the IRS. As a result, we reduced our previously accrued tax provision by $1.4 billion, which was partially offset by the non-tax deductibility of the European Commission find, resulting in our adjusted effective tax rate for the quarter of 29%.

During the quarter we repurchased 30 million shares or $1 billion of Company stock and paid out over $1 billion in dividends to shareholders. Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 9.4 billion, down 4% from the prior year, as a result of share repurchases. Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.47, which was $0.02 to $0.04 above our guidance after adjusting for the offsetting impact of the $0.15 EPS charge from the European Commission find and the $0.15 EPS benefit from the resolution of the tax examination.

So, in summary, our diversification across geographies, product lines, customers segments and product lifecycles produced 14% top-line and 27% bottom-line growth. This allowed us to generate over $7 billion of operating cash flow, the second highest level in the history of Microsoft.

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our fourth quarter guidance and our preliminary outlook for fiscal year 2009.

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call giving you a view of our expectations for the fourth quarter, followed by a preliminary view of fiscal 2009. I also note that we have about twice the number of people on the call as normal, so for some of the newcomers I will also make some brief comments on our proposed acquisition of Yahoo!.

Let me begin by outlining some of our key assumptions for the fourth quarter. We've assumed the following macroeconomic conditions for the remainder of the year. We expect the software spending environment to remain mixed but positive overall on a global basis, especially for the positioning of our products and the value they offer. Like you, we're cautious on the reported economic softness in the US, but at this point we have not seen any significant spillover to our businesses. We continue to benefit from strong underlying growth in non-US and emerging markets, which has also been assisted by stronger international currencies.

For the fourth quarter we expect PC hardware unit growth of 9% to 11%. Growth will continue to be driven by strength in emerging markets while we're tempering our forecasted growth rates in mature markets.

To go with our detailed fourth quarter guidance and year-over-year growth rates, we expect revenue of $15.5 billion to $15.8 billion, representing excellent growth of 16% to 18% over fiscal 2007. Revenue guidance by business unit is as follows. For Client we expect revenue growth of 7% to 11% for the fourth quarter. The guidance assumes OEM units will grow in line to slightly ahead of the PC hardware market, and underlying PC market dynamics in the consumer and emerging markets segments will drive OEM unit growth in excess of OEM revenue.

Server and Tools revenue should grow 18% to 20% in the fourth quarter. We expect corporate demand for our Server products to remain strong, which will drive double-digit growth across the breadth of our Server platform products and services.

In the Online Services business we forecast revenue to be up 37% to 41% for the fourth quarter. Microsoft Business division revenue should grow 15% to 16% on continued demand for the 2007 Office Suite, SharePoint and Office Communications Server.

Lastly, Entertainment and Devices division revenue is expected to grow 32% to 34%, driven by strong demand for Xbox 360 consoles and games.

Turning back to companywide performance, operating income for the fourth quarter is expected to be between $5.8 billion and $6.2 billion, representing 46% to 54% growth over the prior year, which included the Xbox 360 warranty charges. Excluding those charges, operating income should grow a very healthy 15% to 22%.

Fully diluted earnings per share are expected to come in at $0.45 to $0.48 for the fourth quarter, and this guidance assumes an effective tax rate of 30%.

So, with our fourth-quarter guidance, we arrive at the following expectations for the full fiscal year 2008. Revenue of $60.1 billion to $60.3 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 17% to 18%; operating income of $22.6 billion to $23 billion. Excluding the European commission fine of $1.4 billion (technical difficulty) quarter, operating income would have been $24 billion to $24.4 billion, and for fully diluted earnings per share we expect $1.87 to $1.90, representing growth of 33% to 35% when normalized for legal charges and tax benefits.

With the close of Fast Search & Transfer acquisition since the last time we provided you with guidance in January, we've updated our fiscal year '08 guidance to include an estimate of about $50 million of in-process R&D and integration costs related to the acquisition. From a balance sheet perspective, we're maintaining our previous forecast of total unearned revenue balance to finish fiscal 2008 up 14% to 16% over prior years. Contracted/not billed should also finish 2008 up from current levels.

With that, let's turn our current thinking about the next fiscal year. Remember this represents our preliminary view prior to complaining our internal budgeting and planning process, which occurs during the fiscal fourth quarter. This guidance does not include any impacts from our proposed acquisition of Yahoo!.

Our current forecast for fiscal 2009 revenue is $66.9 billion to $68.0 billion, which represents growth of 11% to 13%. On an absolute basis, that represents an increase of approximately $7 billion to $8 billion of incremental revenue.

We expect operating income to be between $26.7 billion and $27.4 billion or growing 18% to 19%. Excluding the European Commission fine in fiscal 2008, operating income is expected to grow roughly in line with revenue growth. Although the mix of our COGS and operating expense of the business is still preliminary, we expect operating income margins to remain generally flat year on year, which includes the impact of about $500 million of additional expenses related to recently announced acquisitions, including Fast and Danger, which were not in our forecast when we saw many of you in New York in February.

We look forward to providing more detail on fiscal '09 investments on our fourth quarter earnings call and our fiscal analyst meeting on July 24.

So, for the rest of the income statement, we expect investment income to be lower in fiscal '09 due to lower yields from the investment portfolio as a result of lower interest rate environments, but we're also modeling a decline in our tax rate to 28% in fiscal 2009, driven by a continued shift in our earnings mix towards lower tax rate jurisdictions. We expect fully diluted earnings per share of $2.13 to $2.19, representing growth of 14% to 15%.

As always, I'll remind you to think about the guidance that we've provided. You must also consider the risks. These include competitors, legal, execution and general market risks such as foreign exchange, [for example], fluctuations in PC and server hardware growth rates, IT spending, changes in the piracy rates of our products and customer acceptance of our new and existing products.

Additionally, changes in the mix of our billings between annuity and license-only can have an impact on revenue, operating income and earnings per share by delaying revenue recognition into future periods.

I'd like to wrap up with a couple of final comments. First, as you consider the performance we're delivering in fiscal 2008 and the preliminary view of fiscal '09, they're great examples of the growth model we've had for the Company, which I've outlined previously. It begins by focusing on the growth opportunities where we can differentiate ourselves through software and, particularly, business IT spending, but also increasingly online advertising and consumer entertainment. Add to that a truly global approach to our sales with two-thirds of our revenue driven from users outside of the US and about 15% in high-growth emerging markets. These opportunities set the stage for healthy, broad-based revenue growth across our businesses. That revenue growth allows us to reinvest into our existing business, pursue both organic and inorganic growth opportunities, while continuing to grow operating profits.

Operating profits combined with reductions in our share count and improvements in our tax rate drive earnings per share growth.

If we achieve the guidance we have outlined today over the three-year period through fiscal year '09 during one of the most difficult economic environments we have faced, we will grow earnings per share approximately 80%.

Lastly, before handing the call back to Colleen, I wanted to provide a brief update on our proposal to acquire Yahoo!. With or without a Yahoo! combination, Microsoft is focused on the online advertising market, which is expected to double by 2010 to $80 billion. Although Yahoo! would accelerate our efforts, we have an existing strategy that is already centered on three key pillars -- drive innovation in search, increase value to advertisers and publishers through innovation and scale, and grow user engagement across our MSN and Windows Live properties.

We have an extremely talented engineering team, a great portfolio of advertiser and publisher tools and key assets in information content, communications and social networking.

Lastly, we're committed to compete in online advertising through organic investments, partnerships and acquisitions, such as aQuantive and Rapt.

With respect to Yahoo!, we have been clear, as is evidenced in the size of our offer premium, that speed is of the essence for the deal to make sense and get folded into our online strategy. Unfortunately, the transaction has been anything but speedy and has been characterized by what would appear to be unrealistic expectations of value. Our initial offer was an extremely generous, more than 100% premium for Yahoo!'s core business and our view on value is shaped by the long-term value of the Company, and we intend to remain disciplined in our approach. The strongest argument that I've heard on why we should increase our bid, simply that we can afford to, is not one that I favor.

We have yet to see tangible evidence that our bid substantially undervalues the Company. In fact, we see the opposite. Yahoo! continues to lose search share, and profitability continues to decline year on year. The results that they announced on Tuesday were in line with the guidance that they gave on their last earnings call on January 29, after which their stock price closed at $19.05 and Wall Street analysts' consensus on value was significantly decreased.

As outlined in our recent letter to the Yahoo! Board, unless we made progress with Yahoo! towards an agreement by this weekend, we will reconsider our alternatives. We will provide updates as appropriate next week. These alternatives clearly include taking an offer to Yahoo! shareholders or to withdraw our proposal and focus on other opportunities, both organic and inorganic.

So that being said, I'd like to remind you that we're here today to discuss our earnings, and we hope you understand that we can't go beyond, in the Q&A session, what I've just said.

With that, I'll hand the call back to Colleen so we can get started taking your questions.

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS) Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, Chris. I know it's early, but I was wondering if we could maybe dive a little bit into your fiscal 2009 guidance. In particular, you are calling for something around 12% revenue growth here. With the US economy looking like it's getting weaker, it doesn't sound like you have included any kind of recession in your forecasting. But can you maybe characterize your view of your business and how insulated it would be from a US-based downturn and how solid that number looks, if the economy starts to get weaker?

CHRIS LIDDELL: The first thing to comment on is in line with some of the prepared remarks that we made. One of the great things about our business from my perspective is the diversification and the diversification across geographies and across business types. So clearly, we, like everyone else, would be impacted by an economic downturn, if one was to get worse than where it is. But we have built in what we considered to be an appropriate level of conservatism at this stage for next year. I just remind you that two-thirds of our business is now outside the US, and some proportion, around 15%, [in] very strong growth emerging markets. So a very good geographic spread, and also, clearly, a weak US dollar helps us from that perspective.

The other thing to mention is, this year would be one year that most people would say has been one of relatively difficult economic conditions, so this is a year where, if we finish out along the guidance that we've talked about, we will have grown revenue by 17% to 18% and earnings per share by 33% to 35%. So, if we can turn in a performance like that in what a lot of people are finding to be a particularly difficult year, then that gives me a lot of confidence in our business model going forward.

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar, Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Chris, the FY 2009 EPS guidance is quite robust. So could you give us a sense for what does that assume in terms of the investment required for your goals in the Online Services business? And if, for whatever reason, you don't get Yahoo!, do you have to come back and revise down the margin for a build versus a buy decision?

CHRIS LIDDELL: There's a reasonable amount of additional growth in our expense line for the online already embedded into fiscal year '09, Sarah. So we'll obviously give you more detail in three months, because we haven't completed our internal budgeting. But if you look at the makeup of the expense growth, then it's around 20% to 25% of that growth will be to drive our Online Services division and for those final numbers to be determined in the next three months. The balance of will go into other high-growth areas in the other divisions, into things like building our sales force, in particular outside of the US. And then we're getting other impacts like FX and so forth coming in as well. But there is already a reasonably high proportion of expense growth allocated to the Online Services area. And also, in terms of CapEx, we're expecting to spend more next year, and that's embedded in our numbers as well, then this year.

So clearly, if Yahoo! was to happen, we'd have to overlay that impact. We would still think about spending, I would think, virtually all of that money in terms of organic growth, anyway. If Yahoo! wasn't to happen, could we consider other investments? Yes, but we'll cross that bridge when we come to it.

SARAH FRIAR: The currency impact on the quarter -- could you just give us a sense for that?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, around 3% benefit, and -- both on the revenue and the expense side. So if you like, in the expenses, that's a negative, but a 3% impact, broadly speaking, in both revenue and expenses.

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I know piracy is a difficult thing to solve for each quarter, but I know your comps here are getting tough in the second half of calendar year '08. So how should we think about your progress, your progress you made in the second half of '07? How much of a tough comp does that give you for the Client business, then, in the second half of '08? Then my follow-up question was just about the buybacks. I believe I read in your Q, you cut them to about $1 billion this quarter. Should we expect that level to stay until we know the outcome of the Yahoo! transaction?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure, okay. Starting with piracy, you're right; on a quarter-by-quarter basis, and I've talked to you and other investors about this, it's difficult to look on piracy on a quarter-by-quarter because we can see individual enforcement actions make a big difference in any one quarter. So we had a very good performance in the first two quarters of the year, the first and second quarter of our fiscal year; a relatively weak performance -- in fact, it was a negative in this quarter.

So overall for the year, we still think that we will drive unit growth 1% to 2% higher than underlying market growth as a result of our combating piracy. But relative to the first couple quarters, when we had very good performance, that's a little lower. So we still think it's a positive trend overall. But you are correct; it does get progressively harder. In this particular quarter, we had -- a couple of distributors had a particularly high distribution of unlicensed PCs in China, due to some market conditions there. You can have that sort of one-off impact, so it's much better to look at it on a year-by-year rather than a quarter-by-quarter (multiple speakers).

HEATHER BELLINI: Just to stay on that topic, because that means that in the September and December quarter of calendar year '08, you've got pretty good comps. Is that the situation where we should expect your -- the OEM to be below PC shipments for you guys, for your revenue to grow less than PC shipments?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Are you talking about for the fourth quarter, or for the year?

HEATHER BELLINI: No; I'm talking about for September and December, given the tough comps you have -- September and December of '08, you've got tough comps in piracy versus September and December of '07.

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think, for next year, but I just don't want to get into too much guidance. We still think that we will grow units more than PC demand, but you'll get the same impact that you've seen for this year, which is, to the extent that it grows faster in emerging and mature markets, et cetera, then revenue will be slightly lower than unit growth, and that will probably wash out to mean that revenue will be broadly in line or just slightly below overall market growth. But we still think that our unit growth will be higher than market growth.

HEATHER BELLINI: And then just the buyback question?

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the buyback, yes, you are correct. It was low this quarter, in particular because of the Yahoo! transaction. I want to maintain the most amount of flexibility for that transaction in terms of our cash buildup and how that -- the final transaction might work, if it does. Therefore, I don't tend to get into quarter-by-quarter and I don't want to give specifics. But also, we -- just from a legal perspective it's difficult for us to be too active in the buyback market. So I would expect us to be relatively modest from a buyback perspective until we get clarity on Yahoo!, one way or the other.

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: If you just look at the guidance philosophically, Chris, compared to the last couple of years, at the same time of year when we were giving guidance for the upcoming year, I think guidance has been generally below consensus or bracketing consensus, seemingly conservative, giving you that option really to outperform as you execute on your model. I'm just curious this time around; I think the guidance test, certainly as -- I think as Charlie indicated in his question, assumes some US -- actually, a reasonable level of execution on the revenue side range of 12% growth. By I'm wondering, on the earnings side, if you are not giving enough flexibility for potential spending in the Online business, if the Yahoo! transaction were not to come through.

Just philosophically, I guess, my question is, how do you think about guidance related to the trend? It seems like there's a bit of a change here. I'm just curious what your thought process there is.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. There's a few trends you've referred to there, so I'd like to try and take them in turn. From a revenue point of view, as I mentioned to Charlie, I feel very good about our revenue forecast, 11% to 13% for next year. I think that's very good in the current economic environment. And as I see it, I think that is a testament to the strength of our particular investment model, business model, and also the fact that we have made a lot of investments in the past. We have talked to investors about the benefits of those investments and I think that is starting to pay. Clearly, in this year, we've driven revenue by over 16%, and next year 11% to 13% feels very good. So I feel good on the revenue side.

On the operating expense side, I think we're making, at this stage, plenty of provision for what I consider to be appropriate OpEx, not just in the Online Services but across the whole business. So I don't feel bad that we are leaving anything out there. Clearly, if we were to make another acquisition or to acquire Yahoo!, that does change the game. But, in terms of allowing us to do what we want to do organically and through some level of acquisition, not only in Online Services but in other businesses, I feel good about the level that we have built in at this stage.

And overall earnings per share are growing 14% to 15% -- there's some assumptions there about buybacks and investment income. I mentioned the tax rate is starting to come down, and I've talked about this, at the last couple of financial analyst meetings, that we're now in a period where you can expect to see our tax rate start to go down year after year, not only fiscal year '09 but in fiscal year '10 as well, as a result of the changes in our business model.

So if you look at the individual parts of guidance for fiscal year '09, at this stage I feel they are hanging together very well.

KASH RANGAN: And also, the bookings growth rate coming in at 14% -- do you think, Chris, that is more indicative of what we should expect over the few quarters? Because I think, and right after the product launches, you had 30%, and then it looks like we've seen some deceleration. But is this the real run rate going forward, given that we're entering a more mature [aspect of the product segment]?

CHRIS LIDDELL: You would expect, over the long term, bookings growth and overall revenue growth to be broadly the same as each other. So if we can continue to get bookings growth, excluding Vista unearned impact, but general bookings growth in the mid-teens, that would support low to mid-teens revenue growth. If that's a mature part of the cycle, then that's pretty healthy, from my perspective.

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, Bear Stearns.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I have a follow-up to Heather's question, and it has to do with anti-piracy efforts. First, the September-December quarters we saw some big benefits from that and actually seemed to take us by surprise and you by surprise. This quarter, that looks to have reversed. Chris, you mentioned, I guess, government crackdowns, and we had heard some of those in the second half of last year. Is there any other color you can give us on that because trying to understand this, and obviously it's going to be a fight as you move along. But if it's always going to be, you get a foot and you give up a yard kind of thing, just trying to figure out what you see in Asia this quarter, and why would it reverse?

Secondly, on that, I'm just curious why you expect an acceleration of PC growth into the next quarter, especially given the macroeconomic backdrop?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, on piracy, or more particularly unlicensed shipments, which to a large extent become pirated, you are true that on a quarter-by-quarter basis it can move around quite a lot. Hopefully you recall and particularly in the first quarter that I said don't take too much from this positive number. You can get an aberration like this on a quarterly basis, and you could have a negative one, by implication. That's what we've seen this quarter.

So again, I just reinforce, you really need to look at things like piracy on a long-term basis and average them out to really get a sense of how it's happening. In the first quarter, in particular, we saw a very strong performance in our Russian subsidiary, which helped enormously when you spread that volume over the total business. In this quarter, in China, because of some specific market dynamics that happened in that country, you saw a relatively negative performance. You've got to wash those things out, you've got to look at it on the course of the year. We still think, for the year, we're going to have PC unit growth of 11% to 13%. We think we're going to ship our units of 12% to 14%. So we still think we are going to pick up 1%, maybe 2%, of shipment growth relative to overall market growth and that washes out the unders and overs, and that's how I prefer to think about it.

COLLEEN HEALY: Just to put that into a little more context, too, on the unlicensed PCs aspect, John, just keep in mind that when we were looking at the PC units to OEM units, that was one of three factors that we talked you through in bridging that. So that is one of three factors.

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of overall PC demand, what I would say is we started the year believing that we were going to have about 9% to 11% in terms of unit shipments. The third quarter came in at 8% to 10%. So broadly speaking, it was in line with where we started the year. It was a little bit weaker in mature markets, which I think picks up some of the economic issues that we're seeing, and particularly in the US, but it was stronger in emerging markets. So the mix was different to what we thought, but the overall market was about in line, 1% lower, which is a rounding error, really, to where we started the year.

What we saw a really was a particularly strong performance in Q1 and Q2. So it's difficult to continue to extrapolate an outperformance. 8% to 10% I don't feel bad about, and if we can end the year at 11% to 13%, which is how we feel relative to a starting point of 9% to 11%, we still feel that's a good, robust year. But obviously, on a quarter-by-quarter basis, again, you can read too much into an individual quarter. If you look at the year, it looks pretty good.

JOHN DIFUCCI: But how could you -- given the macro backdrop, it just seems kind of odd that you would assume that PC sales would increase in this current quarter versus the 8% to 10%.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, we're talking about 9% to 11% for the fourth quarter relative to 8% to 10% for the third quarter. So it's a 1% change. Don't forget the third quarter, this quarter, lapped Vista launch last year. So you've got some aberrations on a year-over-year basis. But accelerating from 8% to 10% to a 9% to 11% third quarter to fourth quarter doesn't feel like it's -- we haven't got the foot on the accelerator very hard to achieve that.

OPERATOR: Rob Breza, RBC Capital Markets.

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the integration of aQuantive and I guess where does that sit relative to your estimates and how is that tracking I guess to your plan?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. There's a number of ways of looking at how it's integrating. The first and most important is from an employee integration point of view, given that the real revenue potential is some years out. From an employee point of view we couldn't have been happier. All of the key executives have remained. Brian McAndrews is doing a great job leading that and has taken a broader role inside Microsoft in terms of driving that part of the strategy. We've integrated, in my view, the cultures very well, and we have got people from aQuantive taking a broader role in Microsoft, people from the previous Microsoft working inside and helping drive aQuantive strategy, and they are very active in thinking about the way in which they can not only built aQuantive as it was but use the financial and other resources of Microsoft to make aQuantive go faster.

So if you take that as a first determiner of how well things have gone, I'm extremely happy with that.

In terms of the underlying business, leading indicator would be just number of publishers we are getting onboard. Again, that's going very healthy. We pulled through the quarter. I think we've made a few announcements. There's 96, I believe, new publishers of various sizes, have switched onto the Atlas Publisher Suite in the last quarter.

COLLEEN HEALY: Since we announced.

CHRIS LIDDELL: Actually, since we announced, sorry. So very good growth in the underlying dynamic of the business.

From a profitability point of view we're carrying the costs of the acquisition but we're managing to achieve the results that we talked about, despite the fact that, at this stage, it's early days for aQuantive when we're carrying, in particular, some of the non-cash charges associated with the acquisition. So the revenue growth is still ahead of us. From a cost point of view, we're in line, but it's a negative. From a publisher business point of view, good early indicators and, from a people point of view, it's excellent.

OPERATOR: Kirk Materne, Banc of America Securities.

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Chris, operating margins for the fourth quarter appear to be going down just a tad versus the third fiscal quarter. Could you just explain some of the dynamics around that? I realize you guys have just made some acquisitions. Is it mainly headcount related? Is there some mix shift going on between the businesses? Anything to do with E&D? Obviously, it's going to have a strong quarter with Grand Theft Auto. I'm just trying to get the dynamics about that.

CHRIS LIDDELL: The problem looking at margins for the business overall is you inevitably get quite a lot of difference between the individual businesses and how they make up one quarter. So that's the first statement, and it's best, again, to look at the year overall. We're looking at margin expansion, but if you look at the trends through the quarters, I think quarter one was 43%, quarter two was 39.6%, quarter three was 40.3%, quarter four was 37.6%, overall 40%. So in any one quarter, you can get quite different movements, and that reflects, A, the mix of businesses; and, B, if you have a strong Xbox quarter you get a lot of the COGS associated with that. That tends to decrease the margins. Fourth quarter, we get a lot of marketing and sign-up costs associated with our enterprise businesses, which generally are buying annuities. So we don't get a lot of the revenue associated with it. We get some of the cost, but then we get the benefits of that revenue flying through for the next year.

So the short answer to your question is, there is nothing unusual in the fourth quarter. We typically see it as -- we typically see it, if you look back on previous years, it's a low-margin quarter relative to the first, second and third. There's nothing unusual about this fourth quarter; it's part of the normal cycle.

KIRK MATERNE: If I could just ask a really quick follow-up, actually, to John's question, just on the acceleration in PCs in the fourth quarter. One of the comments you had about last quarter was just the inventory levels being a little bit higher heading into the third quarter. I assume those have been drawn down to levels you feel more comfortable with heading into the fourth quarter?

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, although just to be clear, I think John's question was PC units overall, and inventory levels tends to be a comment about our shipments to OEMs. So those are very tightly related to each other, clearly. But in answer to your question, yes, inventory levels are more normal. Although I will say, it's quite early in the quarter. Sometimes we get that information over the next few weeks. But there's nothing -- again, there's nothing that we're seeing that's unusual going into this quarter, and that's embedded in our guidance.

COLLEEN HEALY: We're running out of time, but we do have time for at least one more question, please.

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Chris, just drilling into the Client line item, that was clearly probably the biggest disappointment relative to all of our models in understanding the licensing change. But when you drill into what's happening with Vista and XP, are you still happy with what you're seeing in the Vista upgrade cycle? Are you still seeing more units of Vista -- or, sorry -- XP going than you would like? And that would obviously have an impact on the pricing.

CHRIS LIDDELL: With respect to the quarter, the third quarter in particular, there's really no Vista-related issues at all. In terms of the impacts, firstly, the overall PC market, unlicensed PCs, which is not a Vista issue; emerging markets growing faster than mature markets, that's not really a Vista issue; a bit of channel shift to larger OEMs, again, not a Vista issue. Obviously, if we sell a unit of XP relative to selling a unit of Vista, we still are relatively happy because of the realization. So there's nothing in the third quarter that is specific to Vista in terms of the walk-through from the overall PC market down to overall Client revenue. I guess the only Vista impact really is the launch last year and the very strong comparables that we have. But that's not really a comment about this quarter, it's more a comment on the year-ago quarter and the comparable.

COLLEEN HEALY: I think if you look at whether it's Vista rev rec or from a mix standpoint, we can let you know we are up a bit sequentially in terms of Vista mix, shared with you the 140 million licenses sold. So I think things are tracking well, and as expected, from our perspective.

CHRIS LIDDELL: So with that, thank you all. I'll hand it back to Colleen to finish, but look forward to talking to a number of you in three months and, in particular, seeing a number of you at the financial analyst meeting a few days later.

COLLEEN HEALY: Great. Thank you and thanks, everyone, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly.

As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations web site through close of business April 24, 2009. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 1-800-756-0715 or, for international callers, dial 203-369-3427. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business May 2, 2008. Thanks again for joining us today.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080508e44o001na
  


 HD
 Q2  2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,984 words
   PD
24 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the  Microsoft second-quarter earnings call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Today's call is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time.   

I would now like to turn the meeting over to Colleen Healy, General Manager Investor Relations.   

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT: Thank you and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for joining us today. This afternoon I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.   

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the second quarter of fiscal year 2008 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. I will then provide detail around our second-quarter results and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and third quarter of fiscal 2008. After that, we will take your questions.   

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at   www.Microsoft.com/MSFT  .   

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the  Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on January 26, 2009.   

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of  Microsoft.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the Risk Factors section of our 10-Q, our 2007 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.   

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.   

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP & CFO, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. I will begin today's call by providing you with the highlights from our second-quarter results and discuss our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2008.   

Results for the quarter were outstanding. Revenues surpassed our previous record high by $2 billion, and at $16.4 billion, it exceeded the high-end of our expectations by over $300 million. We are benefiting from the investments we have made over recent years, plus excellent execution performance from our field sales force.   

Revenue in the quarter grew 30% or 15% adjusted for the technology guarantees in the comparable period last year.   

Besides just the sheer size and pace of growth, the breadth was notable as we saw strength across all customer segments, divisions, channels and geographies. For example, demand from enterprise customers, combined with healthy holiday consumer spending for Windows Vista and the 2007  Microsoft Office System, drove revenue for the business groups a combined 18% for the quarter. Server and Tools once again delivered double-digit revenue growth in the quarter, the 22nd in a row. Healthy enterprise agreement signings across the Company drove our unearned revenue balance up over $0.5 billion, $500 million above our guidance. The successful integration of our aQuantive acquisition, plus good organic growth, helped our Online business grow 38%, and a compelling lineup of Xbox games drove our performance for our Entertainment and Devices division. [D&D] had its second consecutive quarter in the black on its way to our target of full-year profitability.   

From a geographic perspective, over 60% of our sales are from users in regions outside of the US. Revenue in those regions continue to drive growth for the Company with non-US mature markets up over 20% for the first half of the year and emerging markets up nearly 30%.   

During the quarter we combined revenue growth with cost efficiencies, resulting in operating income growth of 27%, even adjusted for the tech guarantees of last year. Operating margins during the quarter were a healthy 40%.   

Lastly, earnings per share growth of 32%, after adjusting for last year's tech guarantee, continued to benefit from the combination of strong operating performance and execution of our share repurchase program.   

So overall the quarter and half one performance demonstrates that we are realizing the benefits from our expanding business lines, product SKUs and global presence. The investments we have made, including in our sales force and new product offerings, have positioned us well to offer the right product in the right markets worldwide.   

And during the quarter, we refreshed and bolstered our product lineup with releases of  Microsoft Dynamics CRM, Visual Studio 2008, new Zune devices and progress towards the upcoming server offerings, including release candidate one of Windows Server 2008 and a beta of our server virtualization technology, Hyper-V.   

In light of the strong second quarter, we are increasing our revenue, operating income and earnings per share guidance for the year. We now expect revenue growth of 17 to 18% and operating income growth of 31 to 32%.   

And finally, we're raising our earnings per share forecast by $0.07 for the year to $1.85 to $1.88, a growth of 30 to 32%.   

With those high-level themes, I'm going to turn the call over to Colleen for more details on our second-quarter performance.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. The strong momentum that kicked off our fiscal year continued in our second quarter. As Chris mentioned, revenue exceeded the high-end of our expectations by $300 million during the quarter. This was driven by demand for our flagship products of Windows Vista and Office 2007, as well as a good holiday season for our Xbox franchise. This revenue outperformance, combined with decreasing Xbox 360 console costs, flowed through to operating incomes and earnings per share.   

Let me provide you with details of our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss topline financial and business momentum points, and then follow-up with revenue performance for each of the business units. Then I will review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons relates to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.   

Revenue was $16.4 billion, an increase of 30%. Adjusting the year ago quarter by the $1.6 billion of revenue deferrals primarily related to the technology guarantee program for Windows and Office, total revenue grew 15%. With business and consumer PCs each experiencing double-digit growth rates, the underlying PC hardware market increased an estimated 14 to 16% during the quarter, about 3 points higher than our expectations.   

PC growth rates in emerging markets continued to outpace that of mature markets. Europe led the mature markets, and we again saw significant improvement in the US and especially in Japan. Our mix of product billings for the quarter was approximately 30% from OEMs, 30% from multiyear agreements, 20% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. Annuity sales were robust, particularly for Server and Tools, in anticipation of the major product releases scheduled for the second half.   

This, combined with enterprise agreement renewal rates consistent with historical trends, drove our our unearned revenue balance over $0.5 billion above our guidance to $12.2 billion, up 20% year-over-year normalizing for the impact of the tech guarantee deferral.   

Our contracted not billed balance increased sequentially to over $11.5 billion, up well over $1 billion from where we started the fiscal year. When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company grew almost 20%.   

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment, starting with Client. A robust personal computer market and progress against software piracy drove Client revenue to $4.3 billion, up 68% or 16% after adjusting for tech guarantees. Over 80% of Client revenue comes from our OEM business. During the quarter we grew our OEM unit shipments at 18%, approximately 3 percentage points faster than the overall hardware market. Curbing software piracy has been a significant investment area for the Company over the last several years, and those investments are paying off. OEM revenue grew 80% or 18% when normalized for the tech guarantees and in line with our OEM unit growth rate.   

In terms of premium mix, three out of every four Windows customers adopted premium versions during the quarter. Consumer premium units grew over 50%, while business premium units grew 12%. As a result, the OEM premium mix increased by 8 points to 75%, driven by an 11 point increase in the consumer element of the mix and offset by a 3 point decline in the business portion. Due to the pricing differences between business premium and consumer premium SKUs, these changes in the premium mix had largely offseting impacts to revenue.   

The commercial and retail licensing portion of the business increased 18%, up 8% adjusted for tech guarantees as business customers continue to add client products to their annuity agreements.   

Next week will mark the one week anniversary of the general availability of Windows Vista. We feel extremely good about the performance it has driven this first year. Specifically Client revenue has grown on average over 40%, up over 20% adjusted for tech guarantees. Client volume licensing portion of the unearned revenue balance has increased 29% year-over-year, and sales of Windows Vista have surpassed 800 million licenses -- 100 million licenses. That is sales of Windows Vista have surpassed 100 million licenses.   

Server and Tools revenue increased 15% to $3.3 billion, driven by double-digit revenue growth in each of the Windows Server and SQL Server businesses. Coupled with the significant shift in our billings to annuity licensing in advance of the upcoming product releases, this resulted in the Server and Tools portion of the unearned revenue balance increasing by over $1 billion, up by over 35% year-over-year.   

License growth for Windows Server and SQL Server grew at healthy double-digit rates in the quarter. Our premium SKU, Windows Server Enterprise Addition, with its virtualization capabilities grew 35%. Our consulting revenue increased 28% as we have experienced higher demand following the recent business product launches across the Company.   

Online Services Business revenue grew 38% to $863 million, including $154 million from the addition of aQuantive. Online advertising growth for the quarter was also 38%, up 26% excluding aQuantive.   

Our online audience continues to grow. Windows Live usage broadened as Live IDs increased over 20% to 427 million, and the Windows Live Suite was downloaded 45 million times since its launch in November.   

We also continued to expand our advertising and content partnership. During the quarter we became the exclusive third-party advertising partner on a worldwide basis for Facebook, and we announced strategic alliances with  Viacom and CNBC. Since we announced our acquisition of aQuantive, 60 new publishers have switched to the Atlas Publisher Suite offering.   

Microsoft Business Division revenue was $4.8 billion, up 37% or 20% normalized for tech guarantees. Returns on our investment in field sales specialists were evident as they contributed to double-digit revenue growth across a broad range of productivity offerings. Revenue from Business customers was up 23% in the quarter on continued broad-based demand, for not only versions of Office 2007 but also for SharePoint, Exchange, Office Communications Server and the Dynamics products.   

SharePoint and Office Communications Server had a great quarter with each experiencing growth in excess of 50%, and Dynamics customer billings were up 26%. Consumer revenue grew 10% adjusted for tech guarantees. Entertainment and Devices revenue grew 3% to $3.1 billion, over $90 million above our high-end guidance driven by an abundance of high demand game titles which contributed to setting a record lifetime to date software attach rate of 7.0.   

In addition to normalized for the impact -- in order to normalize for the impact retailers advancing some of their holiday console purchases into Q1 deferred by the September launch of Halo 3, performance of the two quarters should be assessed together. With that in mind, Entertainment and Devices revenue grew 25% in the first half of the fiscal year.   

Exiting the calendar year, life to date sales of Xbox 360 console hit 17.7 million units. Based on US NPD data released last week, Xbox 360 sold over 1 million more consoles than PS3 in the holiday quarter. From a share of wallet perspective, consumers spent 27% more on Xbox 360 consoles, games and accessories than on the Wii and twice as much than on the PS3. Xbox 360 had four titles that sold over 1 million copies in the quarter compared to three for the Wii and none for PS3. Xbox LIVE rapidly achieved its 10 million members goal six months ahead of schedule.   

On the music scene, we're pleased by the favorable editorial reviews received by the second generation of Zune. 1.5 million people joined the Zune Social online community during the holiday season, and music downloads from our marketplace approximately doubled from last year.   

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of revenues decreased by $75 million, primarily driven by lower Xbox 360 component costs that were partially offset by growth in our Consulting business, expansion of datacenter operations and the addition of aQuantive costs. After adjusting prior year second quarter for the impact of tech guarantees, cost of revenue decreased by 4 points to 22% of sales. Operating expenses increased 16%. Expense growth was slightly higher than headcount growth due to legal charges taken in the quarter.   

Operating income grew at a faster rate than revenue to $6.5 billion. Adjusting for prior year for the tech guarantees, cost of revenue improvements drove margin expansion, increasing our operating margins by 4 points to 40%. Investment income and other totaled $339 million for the quarter. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31%, .5 point higher than we previously guided. Cash flow from operations increased 124% to $4.6 billion.   

During the quarter we repurchased 120 million shares or $4.1 billion of Company stock and paid out over $1 billion in dividends to shareholders. Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 9.5 billion, down 4% from the prior year as a result of share repurchases, but flat sequentially primarily due to stock options exercised in the quarter. Earnings per share for the quarter was $0.50, which was $0.04 above our high-end guidance driven by the revenue outperformance.   

So, in summary, we're extremely pleased with this quarter's revenue performance. When combined with decreasing cost of revenue, operating income and EPS growth were also impressive.   

With that, let me turn it back to Chris who will provide you with our third-quarter guidance and outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2008.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thank you. So let me turn to the details of our forecast for the third quarter and the full-year beginning with some of the key underlying assumptions.   

For our fiscal 2008 forecast, we will assume the following macroeconomic conditions for the remainder of the year. As I mentioned before, over 60% of our business originates from countries outside of the US, and we expect the overall software spending environment to remain healthy on a global basis. In US markets, although clearly the risk of an economic slowdown exists, we have not seen any significant spillover to our businesses, and lastly, we continue to benefit from strong underlying growth in non-US and emerging markets, which has also been assisted by stronger international currencies.   

No company is immune from their macroeconomic factors, but overall we believe our business is extremely well-positioned in the technology industry with diversification across a broad set of products, channels, geographies, currencies and customer segments, supported by excellent product value and sales execution.   

For PC hardware units, we expect growth of 11 to 13% for the fiscal year, an increase of 1 percentage point from our prior outlook, reflecting the upside we saw in the quarter. Third-quarter growth is forecasted to be 9% to 11%, slightly lower the year because of the difficult prior year comparable from the launch of Windows Vista. We expect PC hardware unit shipments to decline sequentially from the first half to the second half of the fiscal year, in line with historic seasonality. Growth will continue to be driven by strength in emerging markets, and we expect growth rates in the Consumer segment to outface that in the Business segment.   

In terms of our detailed guidance, we expect fiscal year revenue to be in the range of 59.9 to $60.5 billion, growing 17 to 18%, which is an increase of over $700 million from our prior forecast based on the strong exit from Q2. We expect revenue in the third quarter of 14.3 to $14.6 billion, up 12 to 15% excluding the impact of the technology guaranteed deferrals in the prior year. And with that, I will provide details of this guidance by segment.   

Starting with client, we expect full-year growth to be 13% to 14% with OEM revenue growing roughly in line with the PC market. For the third quarter, growth should be 3% to 5%, excluding the impact from tech guarantees. When thinking about the third-quarter revenue growth for Client, keep in mind that the strong customer reception for the launch of Windows Vista in the year ago period makes it a difficult comparable.   

Server total revenue should grow 17 to 18% for the full year and 17 to 19% for the third quarter. We expect continued corporate demand for our Server products, which will drive double-digit growth across the breadth of our Server platform products and services.   

We're forecasting the billings mix of Server and Tools to continue to shift towards annuity agreements ahead of the upcoming releases. Next month marks an important milestone for the group with the commencement of the joint launch activities for Windows Server 2008, SQL Server 2008 and Visual Studio 2008. Together these products will allow IT departments to be more productive in providing them with secure, trusted and manageable platforms and which will underpin growth in the Server and Tools business over the next several years.   

For the Online Services business, we forecast revenue to grow between 37 and 40% for the year and to be up 40 to 45% in the third quarter. Online advertising is expected to grow approximately 35% for both the quarter and the full year.   

The  Microsoft Business division continues to be truly outstanding financial performance. We've raised our full-year revenue guidance to 16 to 17% for the year and 11% to 12% for the third quarter when normalizing for last year's tech guarantee. Growth in the second half of the year will be largely driven by the same factors that made the first half a success. We expect to see continued demand for the 2007 Office Suite, and SharePoint and Office Communications Server should continue to grow double-digits.   

When thinking about growth in the second half of the year for the Business Division, bear in mind the robust retail demand for the Office 2007 last year creates a tough comparable.   

Our guidance does not include any impacts on the recently announced acquisition of Fast, which we anticipate to close during our fourth quarter of the fiscal year, and it is not expected to have a material impact on earnings per share during this fiscal year.   

For the Entertainment and Devices division, expect revenue growth of 21 to 24% for the full year and 25 to 30% for the third quarter. We have raised the full-year and second-half revenue forecast to reflect the record software attach rates and strengthened Xbox console sales we experienced in the first half of the year.   

Turning back to Companywide performance, operating income for the year is expected to be between 24.2 and $24.4 billion, up 31 to 32% for the year and an increase of 3 to 4 points from our outlook in October. Our higher revenue forecast is responsible for the increase in operating income since we expect greater than 75% of the incremental revenue to flow through to operating profit. For the third quarter, we expect operating income to be between 5.6 and $5.7 billion.   

As a result of the higher operating income guidance, we are increasing our full-year earnings per share results to be $1.85 to $1.88, an increase of $0.07 from our previous guidance. For the third quarter, we expect earnings per share of $0.43 to $0.45. Thus, guidance assumes an effective tax rate of 30.5% for the full year.   

From a balance sheet perspective, total unearned revenue should finish fiscal 2008 up 14 to 16%, 6 points or about $750 million above our October guidance, driven by stronger annuity billings and our core businesses of Client, MBD and Server and Tools, as well as an increase in our annuity licensing mix. Excluding deferred revenue from undelivered elements, the remaining portion of the unearned revenue should increase 20 to 23%.   

When thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from Q2 to Q3, we expect the balance to follow historical patterns and remain roughly flat. Contracted not billed should also finish 2008 up from current levels.   

As always, I will remind you to think about the guidance we have provided, you must also consider risks. These risks include competitors, legal, execution and general market risks such as foreign exchange rate movements, fluctuations in PC and server hardware growth rates, IT spending and customer acceptance of our new and existing products. Additionally changes in the mix of our billings between annuity and license only can have an impact on revenue, operating income and earnings per share by delaying revenue recognition into future periods.   

Before moving onto questions, let me mention a few things. Firstly, I would like to welcome Stephen Elop to  Microsoft. Stephen has a wealth of experience from both an operational and leadership perspective, and he will add a new dimension to our leadership team.   

However, I also personally will miss working with Jeff Raikes who will retire from the Company in September. He has done a fantastic job over the years and leaves us not only with a strong Office franchise, but he has redefined the role of business productivity software at  Microsoft by expanding the business into new areas of productivity offerings such as collaboration, unified communications, business intelligence, EIP and CRM, resulting in a near doubling of MBD annual revenue since the year 2000. It is notable that MBD is now the largest division of  Microsoft in size of revenue.   

Lastly, I will look forward to seeing a number of you a week from Monday in New York where Steve Ballmer and I will provide you an update on the strategic direction of the Company. For those of you who are unable to join us for this, we will make available a live webcast, as well as on-demand replay of the presentation.   

So with those comments, I will hand the call back to Colleen so we can get started taking your questions.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Great. Thanks, Chris. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you repeat your instructions please?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini,  UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST,  UBS: Excuse my voice. Good afternoon, everybody. Chris, I was wondering you have shown a lot of impressive topline performance over the last few quarters and in particular some nice upside in operating income. I guess my question is, after the past few years when we have seen operating margins contract, do you feel now you are in a position where you have made some of the big catchup investments you discussed in April of '06, and now looking forward the spending will be more incremental in nature?   

And then I just have a follow-up to that when you are done.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. As I have said in previous calls and certainly at financial analyst meetings, I think you have to look at the Company in three parts -- the core businesses, the Entertainment and Devices business and the Online business -- because the dynamics from a margin perspective are quite different in each of those, and obviously the Company is an amalgam of the three.   

In the core businesses, if you put them together collectively, certainly the operating margin has remained an impressively constant, in fact, slightly up over the last few years. And so we see revenue growth broadly in line with operating income growth -- operating expense growth in those.   

The Entertainment and Devices division has moved from a loss to a profit, so clearly the margins have improved there. On the Online business, it has been and will continue certainly for the foreseeable future to be in investment mode. So that has a different dynamic altogether.   

When you put those two or those three together, then the operating margin for the Company will be very good this year, and you can see that thought in our guidance for the year. So overall we are not making any predictions clearly on the call at the moment about past the next couple of quarters, but the operating margin performance as an average of those three trends is good for this year.   

HEATHER BELLINI: Okay. That was my follow-up, is really you have been in operating margin contraction mode for the past few years. You finally seem to be kicking it into high gear there where you are going to have well over 100 basis points. So should we expect Steve when he is in town in two weeks to kind of discuss an operating plan for the Company going forward where we might hear more about the increased leverage in the business?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, I want to qualify the purpose of the February call. We have always seen that as a good chance to talk about the strategic direction of the Company. So you can certainly expect to hear the investment theme. But, as you know, we are a quarter ahead of most companies in terms of giving our fiscal year guidance by doing it in April. And what I don't want to do is start raising expectations that certainly we're going to start doing that in February, and then maybe we will start doing it in November, and then we will do it a year ahead of time. It is a time to talk about the strategy of the Company and the strategic themes and at a very high-level that will give some indication of our thoughts about where we will invest. But it is not going to be a financial guidance exercise.   

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar,  Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Good quarter. So following on that ending comment there, Chris, about areas where you will invest, if you will look at the online services business, it is still relatively small, the growth kind of ex aQuantive, is still not quite at the levels you might see from competitors. How are you thinking about strategically where you need to go with that business? What are some of the big milestones we should be looking for over the next couple of quarters and maybe over the next year?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, we certainly see it as a multiyear journey that we're going on, and so we are investing with an expectation of hoping to be at a critical mass in several years. I'm happy if you look at the quarter with -- if you like the incremental progress we have made of revenue growth of 38% ex aQuantive in the mid-20s, it is certainly very respectful. You are right in the sense it is not at the size or critical mass we would like, and we're building a business which we believe and hope will be a critical mass in the next few years.   

But I come back to the theme that we have talked about on several calls and certainly the financial analyst meetings. We make decisions on investments now which have multiyear implications. And when you look at the revenue performance over the last couple of quarters, that did not happen by accident. That happened as a result of investments that we made several years ago. So you have to look back two or three years to look at the leading indicators of how we have been able to drive revenue growth at extremely good levels and higher than most people's expectations in the last couple of quarters.   

So when you look forward in the Online business, you have to think about the revenue several years out and the infrastructure we're building for that. And fortunately, from a financial perspective, that means investment now. But that is the way we think about the Company, and that is the way that we will continue to run it.   

SARAH FRIAR: And just a follow-up on that, so that has been an area where you have definitely been willing to look for inorganic growth, successfully with aQuantive and so on. Is that also part of the ongoing strategy there? Could we expect to see some more acquisitions go on for OSB that are of size?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we obviously don't speculate on acquisitions in any particular area. We have been willing to drive inorganic growth really across all the divisions. It probably gets a little bit more attention in the Online business because of its nature, but, in fact, when you look at the acquisitions we have made there across the broad spreads, Server and Tools, you know the Fast acquisition that we made in the enterprise search area, some we have made in the Entertainment and Devices division. So we have been willing to use our balance sheet to drive inorganic growth right across the Company. I don't expect that to not continue. I think that trend will continue, and again we have signaled -- I think both Steve and I have signaled our willingness to do acquisitions over the last couple of years.   

I don't think you will necessarily see some dramatic increase in the number that we do. They have been going along at about a couple of months for the last couple of years. Where we see opportunities and where the situation is right, we will look to use acquisitions.   

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.   

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Chris, for the last two quarters, you have called out anti-piracy as a driver in the Client business. Could you maybe give a little more color on the sort of specific impact that has had and how you see that playing out as a driver for Client going forward? And maybe also touch on some of the other divisions. I'm thinking particularly the MBD division with Office where anti-piracy has some potential to affect results as well.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. It is an interesting trend, and it is a good one to callout. Historically we have seen the difference between the unit shipments we have relative to the overall PC market a benefit in our anti-piracy of 1% to 2%. So our sales, if you like, grow 1% to 2% faster than the market as a result of taking piracy away.   

Over the last couple of quarters, that has picked up. It was around 5% in the first quarter and around 3% in the second quarter. So that is giving us the confidence to raise in terms of our expectations that sort of 1 to 2%, more like 2 to 3% going forward.   

If you say, why is that happening, there is a few factors. Firstly, better enforcement. So we've had a significant enforcement activity over the last few quarters, something like 74 legal actions in 22 countries. So working with local governments who are becoming much more sensitive to this as an issue and very strong government partnerships from us. We have seen some of the technology advances in Vista helping us relative to previous editions of Windows. And also we have seen a shift to laptops and in particular sell-through multinational OEMs who typically have a lower piracy rate.   

Now not all of those factors are beneficial from a revenue point of view. For example, the average selling price through large multinational OEMs is typically lower than in the smaller entities. But overall from a unit perspective, it is helping us about 3%, and it is offsetting some of the mix shift that we see in some of the other factors. So it has just been a very good trend, and it certainly in the last two to three quarters has picked up from what we have seen in the previous two to three years.   

COLLEEN HEALY: And I would say, as a broader theme, the Company is focused on piracy really across all of our software offerings, including Office and MBD as you also asked about. With Office it is tougher to quantify that we can with Client because with Office we sell through so many different channels, volume licensing, retail, as well as OEMs. We estimate about half of the worldwide base out there is pirated, so there's opportunities to make gains there as well. And we're doing a lot of those same sort of partnering with governments and educating people on the value of genuine software and keeping an eye really on retail sales of Office to see how that is progressing. And it has been very robust since the launch of Office 2007. But unlike Client we cannot give you as specific of a number in terms of how we are doing on piracy.   

OPERATOR: Adam Holt,  JPMorgan.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I wanted to drill down on the strength in MBD and Office, which has been a consistent theme over the last several quarters. Another quarter of better than 20% revenue growth in Business Office and related. I wanted to see if that is primarily unit driven at this point or whether you're actually starting to see an ASP uplift on the Office side. How long do you think you can sustain better than 20% growth for business revenue?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, firstly, specifically it is very much around units. It is not ASP-driven. And I would pick out a couple of themes in particular. One is just customer acceptance of the Office product itself, which has been extremely good. It is right at the top end of our expectations. So when you talk to people their like of the product is extremely high. And we have seen that manifest itself from a financial perspective in very strong license sales right across the board. So from consumer to small business to large business, the underlying Office business and the Office product has been a real success since launch. That is number one.   

Number two is some of the other products are starting to become significant in their own right. So when you look at SharePoint growing over 20 to 30% year on year, that is over $1 billion business now. So it's a significant business in its own right, and it is incredibly successful again in terms of customer acceptance and rollout through the enterprise.   

Unified Communications, a similar story. Some of the Dynamics products, CRM and ERP, which do not get a lot of attention because we've focused on the big parts, but also growing at 30, 40% rates.   

So you are seeing a very strong portfolio of products anchored around the Office product but with some extremely good secondary ones as well making a big contribution.   

You know, how long can that last? Well, we will start to let the launch of Office 2007, so that impact won't be necessarily as significant going forward. But if you look at the second half guidance, we certainly see a lot of the same factors for the first half continuing to the second half.   

ADAM HOLT: If I could actually just ask a follow-up on that. You mentioned in your prepared comments that you're taking a little bit more of a conservative view on spending in the US for the second half. As we think about the back half guidance, how should we -- where do you think that is being reflected? It looks like you're being conservative against a tough comp on the PC growth expectations. Where else are you reflecting that conservatism in the guidance?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, I don't think it is -- when you look at the growth rates, they are still very healthy in the second half. So when we think about product portfolio, we actually feel very optimistic for the second half.   

Certainly there's a substantial economic slowdown, and you can see PC growth rates coming down. But we're guiding for the second half in 11 to 13% or thereabouts. So it is still very healthy growth from an overall perspective.   

If you look at individual verticals, probably we can find a couple of soft spots. But each of those individual verticals represents less than 5% of our sales, and they are made up for strength in other areas. So when you look at the combined portfolio of our products, whilst we are being cautious like everyone else about what might happen in the US economy, when you look at the overall suite of products we have and the overall growth rates we have, we actually feel very optimistic.   

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan,  Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: When I look at the double-digit operating profit percentage that you reported in the Entertainment and Devices business, despite having a record Xbox unit quarter, how should we think about the margin profile of this business going into the next fiscal year? Are you at the point where the console costs have been driven low enough and you're getting a healthier mix of software due to attached pricing attach rates. It looks to me that the business (inaudible) for a breakout in operating margins. But how do you think about that looking into the next three to four quarters?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, the first thing to note, as we have talked about before, the first time we start talking about fiscal year '09 is in April. So I'm happy to make some comments about it then. In these quarterly calls, we really try and focus on this fiscal year as the main purpose.   

In terms of some of the underlying drivers though that you can think about when you start to populate your model, one of the things to point out is a very, very good attach rate for Xbox. So we're looking at a live to date average attach of seven games per console.   

It is interesting when you look at that now people on average are spending more in terms of the software and accessories than they are on the underlying console itself. So that model of selling the console as a way of generating future revenue is really paying off. That seven on average is well above anything historically or on a previous console. So that is a very healthy leading indicator.   

But the Entertainment and Devices division is much more than just the Xbox. There is obviously a music player in there. There is some Windows for Mac and various other parts of it as well. So there is other Dynamics, Windows Mobile, that are going to play in terms of our investment in the future.   

So we're not making any long-term predictions about the margin structure. The one thing that is positive is it is clearly profitable, and we believe on target to be profitable for the year, which is the commitment we made some 18 months ago.   

KASH RANGAN: And also one metric that you gave us last quarter was the billings growth -- bookings growth rate in the core business being 25%. What was the same number this quarter? I do see that the overall bookings growth rate was 20%, but I am just curious about the core business. That is it. Thanks.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, greater than 20%. I will look if I can give you a more detailed number after the call, but certainly off the top of my head, it is greater than 20%.   

OPERATOR: John DiFucci,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Chris, you talked a little bit about US risk, and I think you were quoted in Reuters I think after the close today saying something similar. Did you see any of it this quarter? The aggregate results were obviously pretty impressive, but the Server and Tools division was a little bit below your expectations. That is really enterprise infrastructure software in aggregate. Did you see it, and is that what you're seeing now? Is that an area where we might be seeing a little bit more pressure than perhaps some of the other areas?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Actually you have to look really hard to find any weakness in our results in the first half. So in terms of Server and Tools, there was actually a shift to an annuity mix. So that may be what you are looking at. In fact, that is a positive trend because it means that our unearned is up significantly, which we reported, as you know, over $500 million higher than expectations. And it is a reflection of our Company's commitment to our products as a platform in anticipation of some of the server products coming up.   

So, from an accounting point of view, you notice a difference. From an underlying business point of view, that is an incredibly positive trend.   

But if you look at the first half of the year, I mentioned that over 60% of our sales come from customers outside the US. If you look at non-US, it grew over 20%, non-US mature markets. If you look at emerging markets, it grew at almost 30%. But the interesting fact that I did not say, which I am happy to say, is that US market grew at 15%. So that is in total our sales in the US for the first half grew by 15%.   

Now clearly there is softness going forward that would impact that, but that is still a very healthy growth rate from our point of view.   

JOHN DIFUCCI: Yes, but I would think that you would expect that shift to an annuity at the beginning of the quarter when you gave guidance, and it was a little bit shy there. But you just -- are you saying you just did not expect that, and it was customer-driven?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, absolutely. There is vast number of contracts that come up for renewal every quarter and the nature of how those renewals flows through can move the annuity mix quite significantly quarter on quarter. But yes, it was an unexpected positive surprise.   

COLLEEN HEALY: You are seeing on the low-end on Server and Tools of revenue is about a $20 million net, and on the unearned balance, you're talking hundreds of millions. So net net on a booking point, Server and Tools, although the mix was different, the business was just healthier actually than we had expected.   

OPERATOR: Brent Thill,  Citigroup Investment Research.   

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP INVESTMENT RESEARCH: Chris, can you characterize any meaningful differences in consumer versus enterprise demand? Are you seeing any changes in patterns in each of those two divisions?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, they are broadly in line with our expectations. In terms of the enterprise, as I mentioned and Colleen just referred to, the unearned balance was extremely good, and so we're feeling good about the relative commitment of our enterprise customers to multiyear agreements. So that is good.   

On the -- I mentioned about Office and the strength there. A lot of very good license-only sales in the Office area right across the spectrum of businesses from small, medium and large businesses.   

And lastly, on the Xbox side, the consumer sales were very good. That is a good leading indicator of consumer acceptance. And I guess the last one would be PC sales. They were all -- which 14 to 16% in the quarter was ahead of our expectations.   

So really everything was slightly better than what we had hoped for. But there was not any significant mix change, if you like. All those factors were good.   

BRENT THILL: And just as a quick follow-up. Just as you look at the second half of this calendar year, how would you characterize your visibility and I guess the confidence this macro overhang in the US does not catch up? I think you mentioned there were a couple of soft spots. What gives you confidence that does not spillover into some of the other sectors in the US and catch up with you later in the year?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, we have just gone through our midyear reviews where we go country by country and segment by segment across the world and the sales force so the people who are in charge of delivering the results, sitting in on all of those and listening to them certainly is factored into our guidance. And you have to state, we are not obviously giving fiscal year '09 guidance.   

But again, you have to take a step back and look at the overall environment that we're selling into. The next six months we feel very good about. In terms of more general factors, we are a global Company. I talked about the sales mix. I feel good about global GDP over the medium to long-term. I think software spending is going to be faster than global GDP, and I think we're going to grow faster than overall global software spending.   

So could we be impacted by a global slowdown? Of course we could. But if you look at the overall growth rate from the products that we have and in the markets that we compete, we still feel very good if we think about our business on a multiyear basis.   

COLLEEN HEALY: We have time for one or two questions. Operator, our next question, please.   

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard,  Credit Suisse.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I had a little different tack on the questioning. I'm just curious to get your opinion on how you expect the recent EU commission I guess new investigations to play out, and what impact you think that may have on not only Vista but I guess perhaps the not yet released Office 7, or excuse me, Windows 7 product that is being talked about?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, sure. Overall obviously we will cooperate fully with the commission's investigation and provide any and all information necessary. We are pretty committed to ensuring that we are in full compliance with the law and our obligations as established by the court. So I don't really not have any other sort of general business comments. I'm happy to leave it at that.   

JASON MAYNARD: Is this -- post the settlement I guess is like three or four months ago. Is this in any way, shape or form, though, impacting perhaps your M&A strategy or maybe decisions to do something bigger within the Online Services area?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, not at all.   

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: I had two quick follow-up questions on the Online business. Specifically where it is it you're spending the money for the investments you're making now? Is that around infrastructure or R&D sales?   

And then secondly, where do you envision that going? Is it just always going to be an online advertising business, or do you see at a point where maybe you charge for content or applications, music, any of these other potential revenue streams?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, the investments are across a broad spectrum. So we believe to be successful in that business you really need to commit substantially across the whole gamut of investments. So we are investing in search, improving the relevancy of our search results, focusing on some key verticals like commerce, local, entertainment, health. We are obviously investing in the Advertiser and Publisher tools. After our aQuantive acquisition, that has given us a substantial leg up in the advertising platform area, so we're continuing to build on that. We are investing in content and services through Windows Live and other live services through the MSN portal. And then lastly, but not leastly, in operational infrastructure. So a lot of CapEx going into data centers to improve performance and reliability and generate global scale for the business. And some of those costs are feeding through in terms of depreciation.   

So there is no one particular area that we are focused on. We are focused on all the areas, and we think to be successful in that business going forward that is the approach you're going to have to take.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE: And on the second question, on envisioning where it goes?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, just go over that one again.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE: Yes, is it -- I mean do you ever see a point where you may charge for content, charge for applications, or is it always going to be basically an online advertising and advertising-driven type model?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, we are obviously moving to a software plus services world. So there are certainly areas of products that we have where you can see us moving from a license-only to a on-demand situation. We already are.   

In terms of the basic online advertising business, as you think about OSB, to a large extent that is going to be an advertising-driven, advertising supported business. But there will be other parts of the business you know as we already are with CRM delivered online and charged for on a subscription basis where it will not be advertising-driven. So we will live in a multibusiness model world going forward.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Great. Thanks a lot and thanks, everyone, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly.   

As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website to close of business, January 26, 2009.   

In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 1-800-297-0771, or for international calls, dial 203-369-3238. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business, February 1, 2008.   

Thanks again for joining us today.   

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Please disconnect your lines at this time.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080131e41o00260
  


 HD
 Q1  2008 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
8,711 words
   PD
25 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the  Microsoft first quarter earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Today's call is being recorded, and if you have any objections you may disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the meeting over to Colleen Healy, General Manager Investor Relations. Ma'am, you may begin.   

COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER IR,  MICROSOFT CORP.: Good afternoon everyone. Thanks so much for joining us today. This afternoon I'm joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.   

   TD
Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the first quarter of fiscal year 2008 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. I will then provide details around our first quarter results, and then turning back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and second quarter of fiscal 2008. After that we will take your questions.   

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release; therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. This slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at   www.Microsoft.com/MSFT  .   

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the  Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on October 25, 2008.   

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other uses of the transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without expressed permission of  Microsoft.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our 10-Q, our 2007 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.   

With that, let me turn it over to Chris.   

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP, CFO,  MICROSOFT CORP.: Good afternoon everyone and thanks for joining us. I will start today's call with highlights from our first quarter performance and how we see the rest of fiscal 2008 shaping up.   

The first quarter represented an outstanding start to the fiscal year, with every part of the Company performing at or above expectations. In particular, we're very happy that consumer demand across our total product range propelled revenue, operating income and earnings per share growth by 27, 32 and 29%, respectively.   

Also we successfully closed aQuantive, and a number of smaller acquisitions. And we continued setting the platform for future growth with the availability of products and services, such as an updated Live Search, Biztalk Server, Silverlight, PerformancePoint Server, Halo 3, and Office Communications Server.   

In terms of our financial performance there are some key trends that I would like to highlight. On the revenue side, the benefits of our multiyear product cycle are obvious. Q1 was our fastest-growing first quarter in seven years, with revenue up 27%, or $3 billion over Q1 of last year. The performance was across all divisions, customer segments, channels and geographies.   

Looking specifically at the growth coming from our various geographies, emerging markets continue to be a strength. The nations that make up the G7 grew 29% for the quarter, but even better was the over $0.40 increase turned in by the combined group of Brazil, Russia, India and China. A quarter like this demonstrates how enlarging our geographic presence has positioned us to benefit from the continued worldwide economic expansion.   

We also did a good job this quarter of converting revenue growth into profit growth. Operating income grew 5 percentage points faster than revenue, expanding our operating margin from 41 to 43%. Solid marketing and sales execution, combined with efficiency on operating expenses, kept costs in line with expectations.   

Earnings per share was up 29% over last year to $0.45, assisted by our ongoing share buyback program. Given the start in the first quarter, the acquisition of aQuantive, and an improved outlook, we are increasing our revenue, operating income and earnings per share guidance for the year. We now expect revenue growth of 15 to 17%. And this will put the top and our revenue approaching nearly $60 billion, representing a $2 billion increase over our guidance in July. We are also increasing our operating income and earnings per share guidance, the latter to a range of $1.78 to $1.81, $0.08 to $0.09 higher than our previous Outlook.   

With those high-level themes for the quarter and 2008, I'm going to turn the call over to Colleen now for more details on how we closed out the first quarter.   

COLLEEN HEALY: As Chris mentioned, we're off to the fastest chart for revenue and operating income growth of any recent fiscal year. Let me provide you with details of our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss topline financial and business momentum points, and then follow-up with revenue performance for each of the business units. Then I will review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.   

Revenue increased 27% to $13.8 billion, significantly exceeding our expectations by over $1 billion. Every business grew at double-digit rates, with particular strength in Client, the Business Division, and Server and Tools, which grew in excess of 20% combined, as well as growth of over 90% by our Entertainment and Devices Division.   

The underlying PC hardware market was strong, with estimated growth of 14 to 16% during the quarter, about 3 points higher than our expectation. From a customer segments standpoint, the business PC shipment growth rates increased almost three times to over 12%, while continuing to be outpaced by the Consumer segment.   

From the geographical point of view, PC growth rates in emerging markets continued to outpace that of mature markets, driven by robust growth in Brazil, Russia, India and China, which grew a combined 20%.   

Europe and Canada led the mature markets, while we began to see recovery in the U.S. and Japan.   

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was approximately 35% from OEMs, 25% from multiyear agreements, 20% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. Non-annuity sales were particularly robust, which is consistent with the post product launch stage for Windows Vista and the 2007 Office System. Strong annuity licensing performance with Enterprise Agreement renewal rates consistent with historical trends drove our unearned revenue balance 15% higher to $11.6 billion.   

Our contracted not built balance increased sequentially to over $11 billion. When taken together with reported revenue, total bookings for the Company grew an impressive over 30%.   

I will close out the revenue overview by adding that changes in foreign exchange rates added about 2 percentage points to our overall revenue growth, and was slightly above our forecast heading into the quarter. Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment.   

Starting with Client. As Windows Vista became available for consumers, Client revenue has grown over 20% on average. This quarter a rapidly expanding personnel computer market, progress against software piracy, and three quarters of Windows customers adopting premium versions, drove Client revenue to $4.1 billion, an increase of 25%.   

OEM revenue, which makes up over 80% of Client revenue grew 25%. After adjusting for 3 points of revenue recognition from deferred revenue, OEM revenue increased slightly faster than OEM unit shipments of 20% due to a higher mix of premium Windows SKUs.   

Consumer premium units grew over 150%, while business premium units grew closer to 11%. As a result, the OEM premium mix increased by 16 points to 75%, driven by a 19 point increase in the Consumer element of premium mix, and partially offset by a 3 point decline in the Business element. Because business premium SKUs have a 5 to 1 pricing impact over consumer premium SKUs, these changes in the premium mix have largely offsetting impact to revenue.   

Client commercial and retail licensing, which makes up about 20% of Client revenue, increased 23% as business customers continue to add Client products to their annuity agreements. During the quarter we saw a 27% increase in the Client volume licensing portion of the unearned revenue balance. We view this to be a positive leading indicator of intent by businesses to deploy Windows Vista.   

Server and Tools revenue increased 16% to $2.9 billion, driven by strong annuity license growth in Windows Server and SQL Server, which we're happy to see ahead of the upcoming new releases. More specifically, we saw healthy unit growth in our Windows Server business, particularly in our premium Enterprise Edition SKU, which grew by over 35%. And SQL Server unit and revenue growth each exceeded 15%.   

During the quarter we released Silverlight, a Windows [Com] Server. We also gained significant product development momentum with beta releases of Visual Studio and SQL Server. Since the availability of the initial release candidate of Windows Server about a month ago, it has been downloaded over 1 million times, indicating high interest in the coming final product.   

Our consulting revenue increased 32%, as we have experienced higher utilization rates following the recent business product launches across the Company.   

Online Services Business revenue grew 25% to $671 million, including $80 million for the half quarter of aQuantive revenues since close. Excluding aQuantive, consistent with the way we guided you back in July, growth was in line with our expectations. Online advertising growth for the quarter grew 33%, or 25% before aQuantive.   

Microsoft Business Division revenue grew 20% to $4.1 billion. As a result of our focus on delivering greater desktop value to business customers we achieved double-digit revenue growth across a broad range of products within our Office System, Unified Communications, and Business Solution areas.   

Looking at how the various customer segments performed, revenue from business customers jumped 25% over the prior year. We benefited from strong midmarket transactional sales and good Enterprise demand for business productivity infrastructure, such as SharePoint and Enterprise [Cap].   

Healthy sales through retailers for the back-to-school season helped drive consumer growth in the quarter.   

Entertainment and Devices revenue grew over 90% to $1.9 billion, driven by higher than expected console sales and Halo 3, which achieved the biggest entertainment launch date in history. The strong demand for Halo 3 generated approximately $330 million of  Microsoft revenue in the quarter, as well as significant consumer interest for the Xbox 360 console.   

Xbox 360 consul units increased over 90%, with over 1.8 million units sold. This is driven by our August price cut, excitement around Halo 3 generating console demand, and an earlier ramp up to the holiday season in anticipation of the most compelling lineup of game titles available on any platform.   

In addition to the success of Halo 3, Xbox 360 continued to lead third-party game sales against all current generation platforms, which is not only good for us and our gaming audiences, but also good for our game developer partners and the Xbox ecosystem.   

For example, according to NPD for the U.S., all of four of the current generation third-party titles in the top 10 last month were for the Xbox 360. In fact, over the last year game developers have seen their titles hit the top ten list 27 times for Xbox 360, compared to only twice for the PS3 and only once for the Wii. This helped Xbox 360 software attach rates remain at record levels for any console at this stage in its lifecycle.   

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of revenue increased 3 points to 19% of sales, primarily driven by the high volume of Xbox 360 unit sales, increased consulting business, and expanded Online Services operation. Operating expenses increased 11%, dropping from 43% of sales to 38% of sales. Expense growth was largely aligned to headcount growth, and is tracking to our expectations, despite the higher than expected revenue generated during the quarter.   

Operating income grew faster than revenue at 32% to $5.9 billion, exceeding high-end guidance by $750 million and expanding our operating margin by 2 percentage points. Investment income and other totaled $298 million for the quarter. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31%, 0.5 point higher than we previously guided.   

Cash flow from operations increased 45% to $5.9 billion. Cash flow from operations outpaced operating income due to collections on the large volume of business closed at the end of the fiscal year.   

During the quarter we repurchased 81 million shares, or $2.3 billion of Company stock. $2.9 billion settled in the quarter due to the high volume of repurchases at the end of fiscal year 2007. And we paid out $938 million in dividends to shareholders in the quarter.   

Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were $9.5 billion, down 5% from the prior year as a result of share repurchases. Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.45.   

So in summary, we are extremely pleased with this quarter's performance. Revenue for the fiscal year is off to the fastest start in recent history, fueled by strength across our products launched over the last nine months. Operating expenses came in line with expectations, while generating significantly higher than expected revenue. This resulted in operating income growing faster than revenue at an impressive 30% clip.   

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our second quarter guidance and outlook for fiscal 2008.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Before we get into the specific guidance, let me outline some of our key underlying assumptions. First, our fiscal 2008 forecast assumes stable macroeconomic conditions through the remainder of the fiscal year. We remain optimistic about the overall outlook for the IT industry. In mature markets we haven't seen a spillover from problems in other areas of the economy, although clearly the risk of an economic slowdown has increased.   

Emerging markets in particular appear healthy to us. Not only are we getting the benefits of strong growth offshore, but it is assisted by stronger international currencies. The FX impact alone we believe will add about 1 point to our yearly revenue growth.   

Overall, our business is benefiting from our diversification across products, channels, geographies and customer segments.   

We're increasing our expectation for PC unit growth for fiscal 2008 by 1 percentage point, to 10 to 12% for the year, and 11 to 13% for the second quarter. Growth rates in both the Asia-Pacific and EMEA regions appear to be stronger than we thought coming into the year. We estimate that the growth rates will continue to be higher in the Consumer segments and in the Business segments, and recent regional trends should continue, with growth in emerging markets outpacing that of mature markets.   

Now let me go through our detailed guidance. For the full year we expect our revenue to come in between $58.8 billion to $59.7 billion, growing 15 to 17%, up 4 percentage points from our last guidance. Full year forecast now includes revenue from aQuantive, which contributed approximately 1 point of revenue growth. The remaining 3 point increase from July is driven by an improved outlook for our three businesses of Client, the Business Division, and Server and Tools.   

In the second quarter we expect revenue of $15.6 billion to $16.1 billion, which represents a year-over-year increase of 25 to 28%.   

With that, revenue guidance in our divisions is as follows. For Client we expect full year growth to be 12 to 13% and second quarter growth to be 62 to 64%, or 13 to 14% excluding certain revenue deferrals in the prior year. For full year we expect OEM revenue to grow in line with the PC hardware market.   

On the commercial and retail side of the business we expect double-digit growth for the year from continued demand through our volume licensing channels. The Client growth rate benefits by 2 percentage points for the full year and by 4 percentage points in Q2 from recognition of undelivered elements, consistent with our guidance in July in both percentage and absolute dollars.   

Server and Tools revenue should be up 16 to 18% for the year, and 16% to 17% for the second quarter. We expect double-digit growth across our server platform products and services. The division is completing the new releases of Windows Server, SQL Server and Visual Studio in preparation for the upcoming launch of them starting in February. These products will allow IT departments to be more productive by providing them with secure, trusted and scalable and manageable platforms that will underpin growth in the Server and Tools business over the next several years.   

We forecast revenue in the Online Service business to increase 33 to 37% for the year, and 32 to 35% in Q2. This implies Online advertising growth in excess of 30% for the quarter and for the year. This guidance includes the revenue for aQuantive, which adds approximately 25 points of growth for Q2 and for the full year. Organic revenue guidance for the fiscal year is unchanged for both the business group and advertising.   

We are aiming to become one of the major players in the Online advertising space, and we are pleased by the progress we're making in putting the building blocks in place. For example, the launch of our new search product with much stronger relevance. Using industry standard measurement and methodology at 4 algorithm relevance is now on par with the market leader, and better than all other search engines in the U.S. market today.   

We saw solid growth, 23%, in our Display business. We saw record growth in our Live IDs, growing 19% to over 400 million. Our partnership, which we announced yesterday with Facebook, and the acquisition and the successful integration of aQuantive during the quarter.   

We will continue to invest in this business, as we have told you before. For example, in building differentiated search experience in the four high-value verticals of commerce, local search and mapping, entertainment and health, which collectively represent 40% of all global searches.   

Microsoft Business Division revenues should be up 14 to 15% for the year, and 31 to 33% in the second quarter. Normalizing for the impact of the technology guarantee and preshipment deferrals in the prior year, the second quarter growth should be 15 to 16%.   

Looking at the implied growth rate from the second half, I will remind you that due to last year's strong sales of the 2007  Microsoft Office system, we will have tough comparisons but are expecting double-digit growth nevertheless.   

2008 is another important product launch year cheer for the Business Division as we roll out offerings in the important investment areas of business intelligence and Unified Communications. These two areas are projected to have a combined addressable market size of about $65 billion in 2009, representing sizable growth opportunities for the division.   

PerformancePoint Server, which is our business intelligence offering, had over 10,000 customers on a CPV program, an amount larger than some competitors' installed bases. In Unified Communications, an Office Communications Server, also has been gathering interest was over 80,000 beta downloads of the software.   

In the Entertainment and Devices Division we're forecasting revenue growth of 15 to 20% for the full year, and flat to down 8% for Q2. Our Q2 revenue growth, however, should be viewed in conjunction with the earlier than expected ramp up of console sales in Q1 in preparation for the coming holiday season. If you look at our overall for the first six months, that is the first quarter and the second quarter combined, growth would have been about 15%.   

(inaudible) in the quarter has historically comprised almost half of industry hardware and software sales. With competitively priced console bundles and accessories, combined with a great first and third-party software [product] lineup, we feel very good about our position getting into the holidays.   

We also look forward to bringing more choice to digital music consumers with our expanded families of Zune devices and updated music Marketplace, and new software updates, such as podcasting support, new wireless [seam and sync] functionality and an attractive user interface. And in appreciation of our early Zune adopters, the new software features will be updatable to current owners' devices as well.   

Turning back to Companywide performance, operating income for the year is expected to be between $23.3 billion and $23.7 billion, increasing 26 to 28%. Our higher revenue forecast is responsible for the improvement versus our July guidance, as we expect over half the incremental revenue to flow through to operating profit. For the second quarter we expect operating income to be between $5.9 billion and $6.1 billion.   

As a result of the higher operating income guidance, we are increasing our full year earnings per share results to $1.78 to $1.81, including $0.01 impact from integration and deal costs associated with aQuantive. This is an increase of $0.08 to $0.09 on a GAAP basis, or $0.09 to $0.10 excluding deal cost. For the second quarter we expect $0.44 to $0.46. These earnings then assume, both for the year and for the quarter an effective tax rate of 30.5%.   

From a balance sheet perspective, we expect that total unearned revenue for the next fiscal 2008 up 8 to 10%, in line with our prior guidance. Excluding deferred revenue for undelivered elements, the remaining portion of unearned revenue should increase 14 to 16%.   

When thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from Q1 to Q2, we expect the balance of our historical patterns and remain roughly flat. Contracted not billed should also finished 2008 up from current levels.   

It is clearly important, especially in the current environment, that you consider some of the risks of this forecast. These risks include competitors, legal, execution, and general market risks, such as foreign exchange rate movements, fluctuations in PC and server hardware growth rates, and consumer acceptance of our new and existing products. Additionally changes in the mix of our billings between annuity and license-only can have an impact on revenue, operating income and earnings per share by delaying revenue recognition in a future period.   

So to wrap up, the first quarter was an outstanding start to the year. A strong PC and hardware market, healthy demand by business customers for our products, and overwhelming consumer response to the launch of Halo 3, helped propel us to the fastest Q1 revenue growth in seven years.   

To put that in context, our revenue base is about 2.5 times larger than it was the last time we grew this fast. The fact that we can beat the law of large numbers is a attribute to our product and sales teams.   

Product execution and cost discipline allowed the majority of our revenue upside to flow through to operating income. And for the balance of this year we will continue to deliver the strategies for shareholder value we outlined at our financial analyst meeting in July, in particular driving our topline growth, continuing to invest in technology offerings that will provide the platform for future growth, and using our strong cash flow and balance sheet to benefit shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.   

With that, I will hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started taking some of your questions. Thank you.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's proceed to questions. We want to accommodate as many questions as we can from as many of you, so please avoid multipart questions. And please limit yourselves to just one question.   

Operator, can you please repeat your instructions?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini,  UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST,  UBS: Congratulations on the quarter. I was wondering if you could give us an update on your view of this adoption thus far, and in particular how the uptake of premium SKUs, both on the consumer side, and also with just the Enterprise, are tracking versus your original expectations? And how should we think about that going forward?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Clearly we're very happy with the Client Division overall. As you have seen since we launched Vista the revenue growth has been in excess of 20% three quarters in a row. So to be able to hit [line numbers] very good.   

In terms of the premium mix, also very happy about that. In this case premium mix brings in both Visa and XP premium sales as well. And that is striking in the mid-70s, so at 75% for the quarter. And that compares to, I believe, 59% in the equivalent quarter last year. So up 16 points year-over-year. And so we're very happy with the adoption of Vista premium and also happy with the old XP media sales as well.   

The other thing I will point to is on the Client annuity agreements, which is probably the best leading indicator we can think of, of People's intention to adopt, it is still very early in the adoption cycle for businesses, but the volume licensing portion of our business was up 27% in the Client area. So that is a very good leading indicator from our point of view. And sort of finally as a wrapper, the [license] sales are now 85 million units for Vista, that compares to about 45 million for XP over the same period. So almost twice as much. It is still early days, but progress we're very happy with so far.   

HEATHER BELLINI: Just on the premium SKUs, would you say that they are tracking above what you guys had expected when you originally launched the product?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes.   

OPERATOR: Adam Holt,  JPMorgan.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: I will also echo the congratulations. I had two questions on the business uptake. In particular you had a meaningful acceleration on the Client side in terms of business units, and I was hoping maybe you could detail what you thought was behind that acceleration?   

And then on the Office front, still another quarter of better than 20% Office growth on the business front. Where do you think we are on the Enterprise upgrade cycle for Office?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We start with Client. The business sales were, to be honest, a function of an underlying demand. So the PC units came in at 14 to 16% for the quarter overall compared to our expectations of around 10 to 12%. We saw a good uplift in overall PC units, and that was both on that consumer and the business side.   

I think the benefit that we saw on the business aspect was probably most particular in some of the emerging markets. So we saw good strength in business, and that really helped us with the antipiracy and legalization aspect of our growth. So if PC units grew by 14 to 16%, and our shipped units that we are paid for grew by 20%, and all of that delta was effectively our fight against unlicensed PCs.   

So the growth that we saw in the Business segment, in particular internationally, really helped us in terms of overall unit sales. So I thought very good about that. And we still think that consumers will grow faster than businesses by overall a very good story on the Client side.   

In terms of the Office, that has a slightly different impact, mainly because it is a much stronger impact from annuity there rather than non-annuity sales. Although interestingly, non-annuity sales, which typically go to smaller businesses, were strong as well, which is a very direct impact with Office.   

In the annuity sales, which tend to have a multiyear impact, you recall I spoke last quarter about how we saw a very strong signup for maturing agreements right at the top end of our expectations. And that was really a very good leading indicator of people's acceptance of -- or expectation that they would roll out Office, but also the other products in MBD. So it is clearly strong from our point of view that people are seeing not only a value in Office, but product that are related to Office, for example, in the Unified Communications and Business Intelligence area. So overall we're feeling good about the roll out.   

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar,  Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: I think everyone is going to say congratulations, but it is quite an amazing quarter you put up. Just following on one more comment on the Client Vista adoption side, I think a lot of folks had thought SP1 would be the catalyst. Why do you think we saw it a little bit ahead of that, and do you have a timing update on SP1? And then I just have a quick follow-up question if I may after that.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: This adoption, as I say, is still early. I talked about intention to adopt rather than actual adoption. I think you are right that certainly some businesses will be waiting for SP1 to roll it out. But in terms of their willingness to signup for the Client element of the multiyear agreements, their intention to roll out is, I guess, signaled by that. So it is still early days as to what the actual adoption numbers are. And we think it will increase during the year, and obviously will be helped to some extent by SP1. But some of the leading indicators are what we feel good about.   

SARAH FRIAR: Got it. And then just turning to the EDD division, it is in great quarter. It seems like you do think there was some pull forward on consoles, just based on your guidance. Is there anything implied in your guidance on broader commentary about health of consumer spending in the fourth quarter? Are you leaving yourself a little bit more cushion there?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, it is principally around the four quarters you mentioned. As I said in my prepared remarks, I tend to look at the business for the first six months rather than the quarters. In particular in the first quarter consoles sales were 1.8 million units, which is relatively small. It was ahead of our expectations, but it is a quarter where you can beat expectations because the volumes are small. I mean, Halo was obviously a clear beat. But in terms of consoles I would rather think of the volume over that six months, because there's a lot of stocking in anticipation of Christmas going on and movements like that.   

I feel good about it. There is no particular signaling on weakness for Christmas. In fact, we feel very good about the lineup we have got, not only from the Box itself, but obviously the games associated with it as well.   

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.   

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I guess no surprise here, but I'm going to go back to the well on OSB. It was probably the only division that didn't really outperform significantly. Only about 10% growth excluding aQuantive. And the comp score share is back down to the lows that they were in your fiscal Q4.   

Especially in light of yesterday's announcement around Facebook, maybe you can give us a little insight into the strategy and execution here. And is there any shift towards buying traffic in community rather than building it internally? And in general how do you go about balancing those two alternatives and valuing those two alternatives?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. First thing to note obviously is we met expectations, so it wasn't a beat, I agree, but it was a meet. So start with that. Underlying business growth or revenue growth, you mentioned the 10%, which is correct. Clearly in this case is a negative from the [access] business going away.   

But if you look at underlying revenue growth, underlying advertising revenue growth, it grew in the mid-20s, around 25% for the quarter year-on-year, which we think is acceptable. It is not certainly stellar. We would like to see it higher, but it is acceptable. And it is higher than where we guided at the start of the year roughly speaking.   

I think reasonable progress on the organic side of the business. In terms of putting the building blocks in place in how we trade-off organic growth through inorganic growth, it is both. The strategy has been both, and will continue to be both. So we are investing heavily in the organic aspects of the business. So a lot of investment in particular has gone into the search product itself. And we are clearly extremely happy with the improvements we are seeing on aspects like relevance, which are critical going forward.   

We are putting a lot of investment into things like data centers, which are creating the platforms of the future and the experience. So we are increasing CapEx by considerably there. We're looking at CapEx overall for the year of $3.2 billion to $3.3 billion, about half of which is going into the OSB area. And we are putting investment in some of the verticals that I talked about on search organically and all the other areas as well, content on the display side.   

So there is a strong organic side. There's a strong inorganic side. But clearly aQuantive is the most obvious representation of that. And we're particularly happy that we not only closed aQuantive, but we have retained all the employees. We think that integration has gone extremely well. And we believe that is going to generate some significant benefits going forward.   

We also did some other smaller acquisitions, ones which we think were important for the Ad platform, like [ASPCN] during the quarter. And then the announcement yesterday on Facebook, which is a willingness on our part to make a commitment to a multiyear agreement with a partner who we think has got some tremendous growth opportunities.   

So we're willing to do both. We are quite clearly willing to suffer an operating loss in that division as a result of those commitments, and we have foreshadowed that I think at both our financial analyst meeting and our guidance. But to date in terms of underlying financial metrics, we're on track. In terms of some of the other things that we wanted to do, if anything we're slightly ahead of where we would like to be.   

OPERATOR: Brent Thill,  Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Chris, I think your guidance for the fiscal year implies roughly a 40% operating margin, and clearly in Q1 it was higher than 40%. Why do you expect the operating margin will drift to that lower level for the year?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Overall for the year we feel very good about the operating income growth relative to revenue growth, and then saw an increase year-on-year. So there are some cost impacts, for example, the mix of COGS during the course of the year. And we just saw an outstanding performance in the third quarter, some really, really strong growth in particular in Client and MBD. So we think that our performance is going to continue, but not at the same rate.   

Operating margins improved, but I think quarter one was just an outstanding one in terms of our ability to take the revenue outperformance and drive it to the bottom line. And as I say, there is a different COGS mix to the rest of the year which impacted it as well.   

But overall, we are going to grow operating income faster than revenue growth this year, which means margins are going to expand. And the other impact, which you know I talked to you about, is we expect earnings per share to grow very fast as well. Taking out all of the whatnots, if you like, we think EPS is going to grow faster than 20% this year, which is the benefit of the operating margin expansion and also the benefit of things like share buyback flowing through. At this stage of the cycle for the Company, (inaudible) grow this year greater than 20%, up significantly from where we were, we fell good about as a mix.   

BRENT THILL: Just one quick one, if I could. Relative to Enterprise demand, it sounds like it has improved slightly over the past couple of quarters. Do you think it stabilizes from here or has room to improve even from here?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of renewals, with respect to more traditional levels in the first quarter, and that is two-thirds to three-quarters rank that we talked about. So we saw particularly good renewal rate in the fourth quarter. We're back down to some more traditional levels, but levels which we feel obviously very good about. So I don't think -- we're not expecting an outperformance or an increase back to the very, very good levels that we saw in the fourth quarter. But if we can maintain traditional levels, and obviously start to sell the new product range that we have coming through to our existing clients, and hence get the benefits of all of the additional products that were either launched or are guiding to launch, that [lifts] us up very well from a business point of view in terms of overall billings growth.   

OPERATOR: John DiFucci,  Bear Stearns.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Just a follow-up question I guess to Brent. The margins were really impressive here, Chris. And even next quarter you have a meaningful impact -- a meaningful increase in revenue. And a pretty I guess meaningful decline in operating margin. Is there any reason for us to think that you can't do a lot better than what you're saying here? I understand what you're saying about the COGS, but it looks like it is something that can continue.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Probably the first thing to do is to normalize for aQuantive. So that may be distorting the numbers. But we're bringing that in for the first time, and that is bringing in revenue but no operating income. In fact with the amortization of intangibles, it will be a slight loss for the year. That is probably a drag on the margins that you might want to normalize for, at least give us the benefit of.   

If you take that out -- the way that I look at it is, what is our ability to meet our operating expenditure guidance and potentially outperform on the revenue side, as opposed to drive the business on a margin basis? And I would say I'm particularly happy with the fact that we delivered increased revenue in the quarter, while keeping operating expenditures virtually right on guidance.   

You recall from last year I was certainly happy that we delivered the whole year right on operating expenditures. So I feel really good about the business groups' discipline, the salesforce discipline, to the large extent keeping operating expenses under control, which will allow us to, to the extent that we beat revenue, to drive it to the bottom line.   

I can't promise that is necessarily going to significantly increase margins, but it will increase margins every dollar that drops through. And perhaps if you back out aQuantive that will give you a better comparison.   

COLLEEN HEALY: From a fiscal year on fiscal year, if you're looking at organic, fiscal year '07 you are seeing us sort of a bit above the mid-30s. You pull out aQuantive and legal charges and tax, guaranteed bonds and the rest of it, for the year you are sort of in that 40% range.   

And then of course with Q2, given that Xbox, with the hardware such a big driver for holiday, Q2 for the year in terms of the shape of the year you would probably see a gap. But year-on-year when you look at the true underlying organic, pulling out aQuantive and some of those other things, you're going to see I think pretty good margin there.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: On aQuantive, to help you, and obviously we have to give more detail as we go on, but aQuantive will add $500 million to $600 million of revenue for the year. We will call out deal costs. And I guarantee that we write-off up close to $100 million. But we will still leave things like amortization of intangibles, which we know other companies tend to call out. We will leave those in, which means that will be a drag on the operating income of close to a couple of hundred million dollars for this year. So perhaps that will help you normalize for that.   

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan,  Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Good to see a quarter like that, and more particularly the top breakout into a multiyear high. It's got to look good. I just had a question on the Online business. It looks like you have done a good job restoring -- or bringing profitability to let's say to the Entertainment and Devices business. At what point are we in making similar progress in the profitability of the Online business, especially with aQuantive being integrated into the operations of the Company?   

And as follow-on, just also curious to get your thoughts on the Client side. I know you do sell-in, and correct me if I'm wrong. And there are some concerns in certain segments of Wall Street that there might be an inventory issue on Wall Street, especially on the PC side, and that  Intel had a good quarter, or you guys had a good quarter, but with retail -- if that is sort of weakening or at least suspected to weaken during the holiday season, who knows. I am just wondering if you share the concern? And if you don't, what specifically sort of makes you feel that this inventory buildup could actually lead to sell-through in the Christmas holiday season?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. Entertainment and devices will always be really a different parts of the business cycle. So it was a very strong commitment from our point of view to try and drive profitability in the Entertainment and Devices Division this year. And we feel like we are on track for that. If they are on, if you like, an upswing to a part of their business cycle, we believe we can be profitable.   

In the OSB case that isn't the primary driver of the business at the moment. The primary driver is to invest in the right areas and create the platform for a very strong growth in economic value over the next few years. So it is not one where we are [fettered] but if we were profitable, but it is one where it is not going to be a founding determinant of success this year.   

I will be keen to ensure that the expenses come in where they are. All of us would be keen to see that our revenue growth is in line with expectations. But assuming we meet those two things, it is going to be loss for the year. So they are just different. The businesses are at different parts of their business cycle, and so we have different tests against them.   

On the Client side, we are not seeing any significant inventory issues that we're aware of. So from our point of view, if you look at the guidance, we feel good about PC unit growth guidance of 11 to 13%. Anything in double digits or greater we think is good. That is like a sell-in number, using your terminology. We think that is good, and we think we should be able to drive OEM units in our area around that same level. There is no particular issues of significance that we're aware of.   

KASH RANGAN: It just looks like the emerging markets in the BRIC countries, perhaps business there is accelerating, and that is why your OEM units are looking better than they have in the last few quarters.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: That is absolutely right. Those countries really did an outstanding job. Countries like Russia, the business overall grew there by greater than 100% in the OEM area, and Client grew by something like 50%. Some of those countries are growing at a tremendous rate, which is a function of the underlying economies growing well, but as we see business growth in those areas and a greater desire to obviously be legitimate PCs, we are seeing good progress on piracy as well. And that is really helping us with our overall OEM units.   

COLLEEN HEALY: We have time for one, maybe two more questions please.   

OPERATOR: Kirk Materne, Banc of America.   

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA: Maybe I might be jumping ahead a little bit here, but clearly you guys haven't seen any slowdown in terms of demand around either SQL Server or Windows Server 2008 and from those launches. What is your expectation in terms of the impact of those launches on the growth rates? Do you think that we will see demand come in at a steady pace, or do you expect that as we get into the back half of the year that can help accelerate the growth rates in that division?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think it will help continue the sort of growth rates that we are seeing to a large extent. You have to realize that the structure of our business really has matured significantly to one that is driven much more around multiyear expectations. So people are -- to the extent we are seeing strength in annuity agreements now, it is an anticipation of those products. The fact those products launch [winding] itself drive an enormous amount of accounting activity. We will see that over (inaudible)   

So that is the same phenomenon we talked about with Vista. These things will happen over time as people adapt and adopt the particular systems. But from a revenue and economic point of view, our relationship with our customers, our ability to continue to sign them up and drive growth is much more of a multi-tiered route than a single event-based phenomena. We just think a continuation of very strong products rolling out continuously quarter after quarter or year after year is the best way of driving that business.   

KIRK MATERNE: Just a really quick follow-up on Windows Server 2008. Is the beta for Veridian still expected to be released with a full-blown version released 180 days afterwards? Is that still on track?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, that's correct.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks so much. And our last question please, operator.   

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: I just got two quick ones. Chris, first on Premium Edition, obviously a great move year-over-year, up 75%. As we have SP1 Comm, where we potentially get more Enterprises pulling in, can we see that Premium Edition even move up higher still?   

And then just secondly, over on aQuantive have you given any thoughts again to the agency business, and whether that is something that stays within the business or else needs to be divested?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We're very happy with the agency business. That is continuing to do a great job. I mentioned before, I think the integration has gone extremely well. As far as we can tell the employees are very happy. We are running the agency business in particular on a standing independent basis, and really letting them continue getting on with their lives. And we think it is a very good business, and no intentions to do anything other than continue to run it. On the Client side, just go over it quickly again. Sorry.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE: The Premium Edition. You know 75%, very impressive, can we see it go to 85%?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We are just looking -- in terms of our guidance and our thoughts and what is embedded, we believe we can continue to drive that at over 70%. But it is too early to predict anything higher than that.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE: Would SP1 have any impact on accelerating that?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: It might help, but those rates, 70%, are very high. So it might assist, but it may do something -- just help us continue at that sort of rate. We're not predicting a particular pick up as a result of that alliance.   

BRENDAN BARNICLE: Great. Thank you very much.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks everyone for joining us today. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business, October 25, 2008.   

In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 800-835-8067, or for international calls please dial 03-369-3354. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business, November 2, 2007. Thanks again everyone for joining us today.   

OPERATOR: That concludes today's call. Thank you for joining.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c411 : Management Moves | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071101e3ap0030g
  


 HD
 Q4  2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,479 words
   PD
19 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and welcome to the  Microsoft fourth-quarter fiscal year 2007 earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference.   

Please be advised this call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations.   

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER IR,  MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon I'm joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007 and an overview of expectations for fiscal year 2008. I will then provide detail around our fourth-quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and first quarter of fiscal 2008. After that we will take your questions.   

Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance, and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today.   

You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations website at   www.Microsoft.com/MSFT  .   

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the  Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on July 19, 2008.   

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed permission of  Microsoft.

We will make forward statements during this call. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call, and in our 2006 Form 10-K, subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.   

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.   

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP, CFO,  MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. I'll start today's call with highlights from last fiscal year's performance, and then give you an overview of our expectations for fiscal 2008.   

Our quarter four performance kept an extremely strong year for our Company, and helped set the stage for fiscal 2008 to be another year of double-digit revenue, operating income and earnings per share growth. I'm extremely pleased with the traction our sales force and partners are experiencing with business customers, evidenced by billings growth in the quarter for Enterprise Agreements in excess of 25%, and non-annuity licensing up of over 15%. When you combine those figures with billings for OEM and Packaged Products, each growing 10% plus in the quarter, you'll see that demand was strong across all of our channels and customers.   

Looking at our full year results, fiscal 2007 was a year of $7 billion of revenue growth, fueled by robust customer acceptance of products in both our emerging and mature businesses, including Windows Vista,  Microsoft Office 2007, SQL Server, Windows Server, and Xbox 360 consoles. Our core businesses accounted for $5 billion of absolute revenue growth, with the Business Division, Client and Server and Tools growing 13%, 14% and 16%, respectively, for the year.   

Operating income for the year also grew double digits. We were able to achieve this while still be being able to make a number of significant investments in our businesses, for example, the launch of over 40 new products into the marketplace, as well as a number of updates and enhancements to our online service offerings, continued development of a number of upcoming products, such as new versions of Windows Server, SQL Server, and Visual Studio, the enhancement of our Online Service infrastructure by continuing to refine adCenter and increasing our database capacity, necessary investments in Xbox customer satisfaction. And we also announced eight strategic acquisitions, including aQuantive, to provide the advertising industry with a world-class, Internet-wide advertising platform; Tellme, for its voice response services; and Softicity for its application virtualization and streaming capabilities.   

Earnings for the year came in at $1.42, up 18% over last year, which was faster than both revenue and operating income. Finally during fiscal 2007 we made significant progress on our strategy of returning cash to shareholders. Last year at this time we announced authorization for programs to repurchase up to $40 billion worth of our stock over five years. Today, one year after that announcement, I am happy to say that we have passed the halfway mark on the program by repurchasing approximately $25 billion worth of our stock during the year. When you combine the share repurchases we made this year with the $3.8 billion worth of dividends paid, we returned about 175% of operating cash flow to shareholders.   

Now I would like to move to our outlook for fiscal 2008. Given the good exit from fiscal 2007, we're increasing our revenue, operating income and earnings per share guidance for next year on an absolute basis. We expect revenue growth of 11% to 13%, with operating income and earnings per share growing even faster than that. I'm particularly pleased that the high end of our guidance reflects each of our businesses growing revenue at double-digit rates for the year, especially given the robust performance in fiscal 2007.   

Looking to our product lineup in 2008, next year represents another significant launch year for the Company. We will intensify our pursuit of important market opportunities for the Company with product launches in business intelligence, unified communications, security and business applications. By the time we exit next year, we will have refreshed a major portion of our server lineup within a period of 15 months with the addition of new versions of Windows Server and SQL. Additionally, the consumers will have a great lineup of first and third-party games heading into the holidays, led by the release of a Halo 3, plus continuing enhancements to our Windows slide services.   

With those high level themes for 2007 and 2008, I am going to turn the call over to Colleen now for more details on how we closed out last year.   

COLLEEN HEALY: As Chris mentioned, the fourth quarter delivered a strong finish to the year with revenue near the high end of our guidance provided on the April earnings call. Specifically, demand for our offerings was excellent, with revenue growing 13% and core bookings increasing over 20%, characterized by high annuity revenue growth, driven by outstanding field sales force execution on Enterprise Agreement renewals.   

This speaks not only to the healthy customer acceptance of the products recently launched, but also to the anticipation of our offerings still to come. Let me provide you with details of our financial performance, starting with revenue. I'll discuss topline, financial and business momentum points, and then follow-up with revenue performance for each of the business units. Then I'll review the rest of the income statement. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.   

As I mentioned, revenue grew 13% to $13.4 billion, driven by Client, the Microsoft Business Division and Server and Tools. Online Services also had a good quarter. Each of these four businesses grew in the mid to high teens, and collectively at 16%. The underlying PC hardware market remained robust, with estimated growth of 11% to 13% during the quarter, about 1 point higher than our expectations. PC shipment growth rates in emerging markets continue to outpace that of mature markets, and consumer PC shipment growth outpaced that of the Business Segment. Every region, except the US and Japan, increased PC shipments at double-digit rates.   

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was approximately 30% from OEMs, over 40% from multi-year licensing agreements, around 15% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. Over the past couple of years we have seen a mix shift from license-only sales to annuity agreements, driven by standing adoption of Enterprise Agreements. Enterprise Agreement renewal rates exceeded the high end back of our historical range of 66% to 75%. We are delighted that the value proposition from our current product lineup and future roadmap beyond the recently launched flagship desktop product even are resonating with customers.   

This strong annuity licensing performance drove our unearned revenue balance 16% higher to $12.6 billion. And our contracted, not billed balance was driven higher on both a sequential and year-over-year basis, exceeding $10 billion at the end of June. As a result, total bookings grew over 15%, and core bookings of Client, Microsoft Business Division and Server and Tools increased over 20%, as I previously mentioned. I'll close out the revenue overview by adding that changes in foreign exchange rates added about 2 percentage points to our overall revenue growth.   

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment. Volume revenue grew 14% to $3.8 billion, characterized by strong OEM revenue growth, driven by continued demand for Windows Vista and a healthy PC hardware market. OEM revenue increased 15%, and includes 3 points of revenue recognition from undelivered elements. Adjusting for this impact, OEM revenue grew roughly in line with OEM unit shipments at 11%.   

OEM premium mix was 72%, a 17 percentage point increase over this period last year. This was driven by a 20 percentage point increase in the consumer element of premium mix, and around a 3 percentage point decline in the business element. Given the over 5-to-1 pricing uplift we received from the business premium SKUs over consumer premium SKUs, these changes within the premium mix have largely an offsetting impact to revenue. For further background on this new disclosure, we have included a slide in the earnings guide on our website that illustrates these metrics, as well as lists the SKUs comprising each of the consumer and business premium mixes.   

Client, Commercial and Retail Licensing increased 7%. Businesses are recognizing the value that Windows Vista and Software Assurance provides them, as evidenced by high renewal and new annuity attach rates, driving about a 25% increase in the volume licensing portion of the unearned revenue balance.   

Server and Tools revenue grew 15% to $3.1 billion, driven by SQL Server, Windows Server, Visual Studio and Consulting Services revenue. Fiscal 2007 capped a decade of consecutive years of double-digit revenue growth for SQL Server. During the quarter significant product development momentum was achieved with beta releases of the upcoming versions of Windows Server and Visual Studio, and a community technology preview of SQL Server 2008.   

In our Online Services business we saw advertising revenue growth of 33%, exceeding our expectations. Search ad revenue benefited from both increased search queries and revenue per search, while display ad revenue enjoyed both increased number of page views and revenue per page view. Overall, Online Services business revenue grew 19% to $688 million.   

Microsoft Business Division revenue grew 19% at $4.6 billion, beating high-end guidance by over $150 million. Highlights in the quarter included solid revenue growth through Enterprise Agreements for Office, and continued momentum for share points. Enterprise Agreement momentum continued after the launch of the Office 2007 system, and renewal rates are higher now than they were a year ago.   

We are also pleased with the results of our Dynamic business, which showed healthy performance across both the ERP and CRM product lines, driving a 24% increase in Dynamic Customer billings. An impressive 85,000 new seats of our Dynamic CRM offering were sold during the quarter.   

Consistent with our guidance, Entertainment and Devices revenues decreased 10% to $1.2 billion as a result of lower Xbox 360 sales. Software and accessory attach rates remained at record levels, and we passed the 7 million member mark for Xbox LIVE. During the quarter, Halo 3 concluded beta testing, and on September 25th will lead the charge of hotly anticipated game titles into this 2007 holiday season. Entertainment and Devices achieved its goal of selling over 1 million Zune units on a self-in basis in its first eight months in the market.   

Licenses for Windows Mobile-based phones grew in excess of 75% to end the year with sales of over 11 million, and an increased unit market share in the smart phone category.   

Now for the rest of the income statement. Positive revenue increased 52%, primarily driven by a charge relating to the current and enhanced Xbox 360 warranty policies that were announced earlier this month. At this time let me provide you with the details of that charge, now that they have been finalized.   

First, the total amount was $1.06 billion, within the range we provided a couple of weeks ago. Second, the makeup is largely consistent with the guidance we provided, with about half of the total charge driven by existing warranty policies and the other half driven by the new warranty enhancements. Of the total amount of the charge, approximately 35% is attributable to inventory valuation adjustment.   

Before the Xbox 360 charge, cost of revenue would have increased 5% year over year. Other operating expenses increased 13%, including legal charges of $351 million in the year-ago period. Expense growth was driven by headcount-related costs and sales support cost for our Enterprise Software Advisory Channel partners.   

Operating income was $4 billion. Excluding the impact of the Xbox 360 charge and certain legal charges in the year-ago period, operating income for the quarter would have increased 19% to $5 billion. Investment income and others totaled $295 million for the quarter.   

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29%, to align to our annual effective tax rate of 30% for fiscal 2007. Before nonrecurring items the effective tax rate for the year would have been 31%.   

Cash flow from operations increased 34% to $4.4 billion. During the quarter we repurchased 243 million shares, or $7.4 billion of Company stock, of which $7.2 billion settled in the quarter. And we paid out $952 million in dividends to shareholders.   

Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 9.7 billion, down 6% from the prior year as a result of share repurchases. Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.31, which included $0.08 related to the Xbox charge. Before this charge, earnings would have been $0.39 per share.   

So in summary, during the quarter we made an needed investment into our Xbox business to assure customers that we fully stand behind our products. Before this charge, the fourth quarter was a strong end to fiscal 2007 with double-digit revenue, operating incomes and EPS growth, robust bookings and solid progress on the fiscal 2008 product pipeline.   

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our expectations for the first quarter and all of fiscal 2008.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call talking about what we see for the full year ahead and first quarter. Before we get into the specific guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions. The fiscal 2008 forecast generally assumed a continuation of the economic conditions and demand from where we exited in 2007. And our forecast did not include any significant unexpected impacts from foreign exchange rate movements.   

We expect PC unit demand to continue to remain healthy, with growth rates similar to what we saw in 2007. Specifically, we expect PC unit growth for fiscal 2008 to be 9% to 11% for the year and between 11% to 13% for the first quarter. We estimate that growth rates will continue to be higher in the consumer segment than in the business segment, and recent regional trends should continue, with growth in emerging markets outpacing that of mature markets.   

Now let me go through our detailed guidance. For the full year we expect our revenue to come in between $56.8 billion to $57.8 billion, growing 11% to 13%. This represents a 1 percentage point improvement on the high-end, and is about $300 million better in absolute dollar terms from our April guidance. The $5.7 billion to $6.7 billion yearly represents yearly increases driven by expected solid performance across our five segments.   

In the first quarter we expect revenue of $12.4 billion to $12.6 billion, which represents an increase of 15% to 17%. With that revenue guidance in our divisions is as follows. For Client we expect full-year growth to be 9% to 10%, and quarter one growth to being 15% to 16%. For the first quarter we expect OEM revenue to grow faster than the PC hardware market due to a higher premium mix than the year-ago quarter and to be in line for the full year.   

On the Commercial and Retail side of the business, we expect double-digit growth for both quarter one and the year from continued demand through our volume licensing channels. Combined growth rate benefits by 3 percentage points in Q1 and 2 percentage points for the full year from recognition of undelivered elements. As in our April call, we have included a slide in our slide deck containing additional information on the impact of Client revenue.   

Server and Tools revenue should be 14% to 15% for the year and 11% to 12% for the first quarter. Coming off another impressive year in fiscal 2007, Server and Tools is expected to, again, achieve double-digit revenue growth, while delivering the next wave of server innovation with the upcoming February launch of the new versions of Windows Server, SQL Server and Visual Studio. Together, these products form a highly reliable and secure next-generation Enterprise platform, which will fuel growth in the Server and Tools business over the next several years.   

We forecast revenue in the Online Services business to increase 10% to 13% for the year and 10% to 11% in Q1. This implies advertising growth in excess of 20% for the year and for the quarter. Fiscal 2008 will bring many important structural enhancements to our Online Services business. First, we expect to close both of our recently announced acquisitions for ScreenTonic and aQuantive in the first quarter. These acquisitions represent important next steps as we continue building out our vision of a centralized advertising platform that allows advertisers exposure across the various IP-enabled media.   

Second, we will be making usability improvements by providing better integration between our Windows Live services. Third, we will continue to build out our data centers to provide capacity for Online Services that can be used across the Company.   

I mentioned our acquisition of aQuantive, and I want to clarify that the guidance we are giving you for the Company and for [RSB] does not include the financial impact of aQuantive. We expect to close the aQuantive acquisition in August, sometime after the shareholder vote. Assuming a positive vote and a subsequent close, we plan to update our corporate guidance for the inclusion of that business on our next earnings call in October. As we stated in May, the transaction will have revenue and operating expenses, but we do not expect a significant effect to fiscal 2008 operating income and earnings per share, excluding transaction cost.   

Microsoft Business Division revenue should be 11% to 12% for the year and 14% to 15% in the first quarter. Q1 will continue to benefit from strong customer acceptance of the  Microsoft Office system. Fiscal 2008 represents another important launch year for the Business Division, with the impending releases of Office Communications Server, Performance Point Server and new versions of Dynamic CRM. These products continue  Microsoft's push into the field of unified communications, business intelligence and business application. While overall revenue growth remains healthy, growth comparisons for the second half of 2008 are more difficult due to our outperformance in 2007.   

For the Entertainment and Devices Division, we're forecasting revenue growth of 10% to 19% for the full year and 30% to 40% for Q1. Growth in our most profitable revenue streams will be a key driver in achieving our goal of segment profitability in fiscal 2008. We had the best deals and third-party software title lineup we have ever had, highlighted by the launch of Halo 3 this September. These games, combined with Xbox accessory attach, and an expanding line of Xbox LIVE installed base, set us up for an excellent year in our Xbox business.   

2008 will be another year of continued momentum for our Mobile Communications business as well. We expect to sell over 20 million licenses for Windows Mobile-based phone as our carrier and OEM partners roll out a broad and compelling lineup of devices based on Windows Mobile 6.   

Getting back to Companywide performance, operating income for the year is expected to be between $22.2 billion and $22.7 billion, increasing 20% to 22% and 12% to 15%, excluding certain charges in fiscal 2007. The high revenue forecast is responsible for the improvement versus our April operating income guidance. For the first quarter, we expect operating income to be between $5 billion and $5.2 billion.   

As a result of the higher operating income guidance, we have increased our full-year earnings per share results by $0.01. Therefore diluted earnings per share for the year are expected to come in at $1.69 to $1.73. For the first quarter we expect $0.38 to $0.40. These earnings assume an effective tax rate of 30.5%.   

From a balance sheet prospective we expect total unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2008 up 7% to 10%. Excluding undelivered elements, the remaining portion of our unearned revenue should increase 13% to 16%. Contracted, not billed should all show also finish 2008 up from current levels. When thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from quarter four 2007 to quarter one 2008, we expect a sequential decrease from the fourth quarter to be about 10%, due to the large amount of billings in that fourth quarter.   

When thinking about the guidance we just provided you, I would suggest that you consider some of the risks. These risks include competitive, legal, execution and general market risks, as well as customer acceptance of our new and existing products, and fluctuations in PC and server hardware growth rates. Additionally, changes in the mix of our billings between and annuity and license-only can have an impact on GAAP revenue, operating income and earnings per share by delaying revenue recognition into future periods.   

So to wrap up, fiscal 2007 was an excellent year from our perspective. Launches of Windows Vista, the 2007  Microsoft Office System, Exchange 2007, Zune, and Windows Mobile 6 brought new capabilities into the marketplace. That is exciting to see them off to such strong starts.   

Many of the same factors that helped us be successful in 2007, such as a healthy PC hardware market, customer acceptance of our new versions of Office and Windows, an impressive lineup of new product offerings, as well as solid execution by our R&D and sales and marketing teams will help propel us into the next fiscal year.   

In 2008 we're looking to deliver another year of double-digit revenue, operating income and earnings per share growth. Next year product releases represent significant improvements over our existing products, as well as continued push into new areas for the Company. Given the operational backdrop and our ability to generate meaningful free cash flow for the Company, we will look to continue to execute on our strategy of returning cash to shareholders.   

This brings me to the end of my financial comments. I'm very much looking forward to catching up with many of you at our financial analyst meeting next week. As a result of your feedback, we have made some slight adjustments to the overall flow of the day. There will still be presentations by Bill, Steve and the senior management team, but we have also allowed more executive interactions than in prior years, with Q&A sessions throughout the day with all the speakers.   

So we have left some time now for your questions. And I will hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started. Thank you.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions, and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Charlie DiBona with Sanford Bernstein.   

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Chris, I guess it will come as no surprise that I have a question about the Online Services Group. I know you promised more metrics next week. But more generally, you have had some solid results here and a good recovery of search share by all the independent metrics in the last month, both sequentially and year over year. But there has been some speculation that those gains were driven by special programs. And now your Q1 guidance points to a relatively significant deceleration of that business. Can you talk a little bit about the strategy here and about the sustainability of particularly last month's momentum?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. Let me talk about the quarter and then how it flows through to the year. From the quarter point of view, the underlying advertising revenue was up 33%. The good news from my perspective was that really it was across the board. So we had good search volumes. We had good monetization of those search volumes. So we are lapping the transition to adCenter, so we're getting some benefit, if you like, from revenue per search uplift, as well as the overall volumes. And better than that growth rate is also on our Display business, which doesn't tend to get talked about as much. But that was up a healthy number in terms of volume and monetization as well. So it was a good quarter all around.   

Vis-a-vis next year, inside the guidance is revenue growth in advertising of greater than 20%. Now the comparables start to get harder because we're off a bigger base, obviously, and we don't have for the full year quite as strong a momentum in terms of the adCenter transition. I would just say mid 20s or higher is a good result for the business overall. And I think that clearly if we can do better than that, that's great, but that's not a bad result.   

In terms of the last part of your question, on how much were we assisted in the fourth quarter by some of the one-off impacts, we were certainly helped by that. But I think the interesting thing from my point of view, is not necessarily the sustainability of that, because that was one or two months. It's just that when we put a new product into the marketplace, it is capable of shifting share. So I'm certainly not going to extrapolate that through next year. But I think it is interesting from, if you like, an experiment point of view that when we tried something different we were able to get some movement in the market in a relatively short period of time.   

I haven't built a lot of that into next year, and we will wait to see if other, more sustainable products have some influence. But overall, I think next year having revenue, our advertising growing at greater than 20% off a higher base is at least a good starting point at this stage.   

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini with  UBS.

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST,  UBS: I was wondering if you could comment on two things. One, where do you think the premium mix could go, going from 71%, I believe, to 72% this quarter? Again, that is much higher than what you have forecasted before you went into the Vista cycle. But where do you think we could go, especially if we get into the heart of consumer spending maybe more around back to school and holiday?   

Then also could you comment on the significance of SP 1 for Vista adoption, and do you have any comments on timing?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. On the premium mix we think that sort of level is sustainable through next year. However, we would expect the same sort of premium mix next year as for this year. And we will see a difference in business premium versus consumer premium. As we talked about last quarter, we thought we would give you more visibility into what is happening in those two different segments, or those two different components of the premium mix, because they have such different monetization impact. The business premium having much more significance than the consumer premium.   

So Colleen shared with you the makeup of those numbers. In terms of next year, because we expect Consumer growth to be higher than Business growth in terms of PCs, we would still expect a mix shift in the premium segment towards the consumer premium, but the overall premium mix for the Company to be relatively healthy and high in the 70%-odd range. So we think that is sustainable at that level, but with a change inside Business and Consumer.   

In terms of SP 1, and clearly there will be an SP 1, but at this stage were not talking about exactly when that is. We don't see it as a massive driver of uptake in its own right. It's early days yet, and we are broadly happy with how we are seeing Vista adoption in both the Consumer and the Business point of view. And we have always expected -- and I think we have talked about this for the last two or three quarters -- that the Business uptake would be driven by their needs rather than by the availability of Vista, per se. So that is going to be progressive over the next 12 to 18 months, and I think will be relatively independent of when the first service pack comes out.   

OPERATOR: Sarah Friar with  Goldman Sachs.

SARAH FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: In the Entertainment and Device area, that guidance for fiscal year 2008 is quite a wide spread. Chris, could you just talk us through what the major swing factors will be? Also you did say profitability in the segment for FY 2008. But can you give us any sense on timing? Could Halo 3 launching at the end of September help drive profitability as early as December?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, it's profitability overall for the year, and that's the key from my point of view. Because of the seasonality in that business, you could see some quite different swings in profitability on a quarter-by-quarter basis, not only because of Halo 3 that you mentioned, but obviously the Christmas quarter is a substantial one from a console and gaming point of view. So it won't necessarily be a linear improvement during the course of the year, although in terms of COGS it will help. So that the COGS will progressively decrease through the year, but the volumes will go up and down as the quarters. So the profitability overall for the year, but it will be nonlinear in the way that it rolls out during the course of the year.   

In terms of the width of the guidance, I just say is purposeful. It's one of those businesses which, from a demand point of view is relatively hard to anticipate. Obviously, console demand in itself is a big variable there. But the other thing, and better than that is, to be honest with you, we have a pricing strategy for the next 12 to 24 months that is embedded in that, and our console strategy as well. Those two are related to each other. And at this stage we are keeping relatively quiet about that because from a competitive point of view, we really don't want to signal anything. So that will become more clear as the year comes through. But at this stage we are keeping, if you like, a relatively wide range to accommodate that.   

SARAH FRIAR: Could I ask one more quick follow-up? Just on the macroenvironment, a number of other technologists have alluded to a much better spending backdrop. I would just loved to hear your quick thoughts on any changes you're seeing in the various geographic areas, where you're seeing strength and weakness?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We are certainly seeing strength in all of the emerging markets. For example, countries like Russia, which is just had a phenomenal year for us. So some of those Eastern Europe countries, South America and obviously the Asian countries it's very strong from our perspective, albeit off a relatively small basis.   

In terms of overall level of spending, we aren't seeing a significant positive there. The thing we are saying that we believe that we are seeing is a higher share of wallet from some of our customers, and that is reflected in the relatively high renewals that we're getting and people's uptake of the products. So from our field's point of view, we're seeing a really healthy and encouraging trend from just being a desktop software provider to being much more of an infrastructure provider to enterprises. So we are not necessarily seeing the amount of their spending going up, but we believe that the amount that they are spending with us on the suite of products that we have got, not only the ones obviously that we've launched in the last couple of years, but the ones that are coming up, is increasing in what we consider to be a promising way.   

OPERATOR: Brent Thill with  Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Chris, on the Client guidance for fiscal 2008, it seems it's fairly prudent considering the industry is expecting a reacceleration in PC unit growth in the second half of this year. Can you just talk through some of the characteristics of why you're expecting that line to slow down more than any of the other lines that you've given guidance for the year?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: If you start with PC unit growth rates, and that's clearly the main driver inside there, we're expecting for next year, as I mentioned on the call, around 9% to 11%. So we're expecting very much in line with industry expectations.   

We think we can grow OEM units at the top end of that range because of our continued progress that we make in piracy. So we think we can grow units at the top end of that range. And then we will be assisted to some extent by the Vista revenue recognition that we talked about on the last couple of calls.   

But because of the premium mix change, and this is something that Steve obviously alluded to in February and we have talked a bit about in the last few calls, we will lose a couple a of percentage points between OEM unit growth and OEM revenue growth. You know, the strong drive in emerging markets -- growth in emerging markets, and consumers will take a little bit of a shaving relative to -- from revenue relative to units.   

Then lastly, from our perspective in terms of revenue growth, the Commercial and Retail will have a strong comparable in FY 2007. So the growth rate will be relatively hard to repeat, given the [FTP] spike that we had in fiscal year 2007.   

So there's a lot of moving parts in the way that we look at it. But if you start with PC unit growth, we think we can grow OEM units at the top end of that. And we think we can grow Client revenue overall broadly equal to OEM units at around that 9% to 10% mark. So we think that will be a good, healthy result from our perspective. But in order to get outperformance on that, we would have to see PC unit at stronger levels than that.   

BRENT THILL: Just a quick follow-up. Longhorn is still on track for calendar year 2007 ship?   

COLLEEN HEALY: No update on the Longhorn. You can expect second half calendar 2007 for RTM.   

OPERATOR: John DiFucci with  Bear Stearns.

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: I have a question, Chris, on cash flow. It looks like other current assets are down a little bit. And there's a note right at the end of the press release on your -- or the report on your website. I just want to make sure I understood it.   

It looks like this year, relative to a year ago, benefited by $1.2 billion because you were not building Xbox inventory. So just -- if you could confirm that that's actually true. And is that -- and we know that you had some channel issues where there was an oversupply to the channel in the December quarter. But this 35% of that $1 billion charge due to inventory valuation adjustment, is this at all related to that? And what exactly are you adjusting here? Is that in any way allude to what you were talking about as far as your pricing strategy going forward? Or do you have to go in and fix all these things? Does that have to do with the three flashing light issue or just any issue? Sorry for such a long one there.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let me try and strike all the components, and hope that I get them all. In terms of the cash flow impact, yes, there's a difference between a build inventory a year ago and a declining inventory situation this year. So that is certainly true from the cash flow point of view.   

In terms of the write-down component of the charge associated with Xbox, that is a write-down on the balance sheet of the holding costs of those Xbox. So that's a non-cash charge, clearly, but it does have an influence on the overall carrying costs of the boxes that are associated with that. So that is a direct charge to that.   

In terms of the linkage between that and the three flashing red lights, it's not so much a direct linkage, there is obviously an indirect linkage in the sense that because of that, people returned them and we need to repair them. But this is very much -- the inventory write-down is very much a write-down of the inventory that we have had returned to date that we believe that we will not be able to sell as a repaired unit, and hence it is impaired from a valuation perspective. It is clearly all part of the same manufacturing issue, but it slightly different from a physical and accounting perspective.   

Did I grab all the parts of your question?   

JOHN DIFUCCI: I think you did, but one of the things here with this write-down and some of those other components, the other 15% -- I'm having a hard time understanding why this is like a special charge and it's taken out of the non-GAAP numbers for you.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think the important thing from my point of view is the visibility of what we did, and what we tried to do a couple of weeks ago -- I would be happy to go over it again -- is give people all of the components of the charge and what they were. Then, obviously, people can treat them as they see appropriate.   

I think the important thing is that they relate effectively to boxes that have already been produced, so have been produced in the fiscal year 2006 or fiscal year 2007 area. And from a GAAP point of view it is clearly a charge. And the important thing from my perspective is that people understand the magnitude of the charge, and the major components of it in terms of what people can expect in the future will be a cash cost and what is simply an accounting charge against balance sheet items now. So people, depending on whether they are looking at cash flow, like it sounds like you are, or balance sheet, or overall GAAP accounting, they have got, hopefully, all of the major components to slice and dice it the way they want to.   

OPERATOR: Adam Holt with  JP Morgan.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: I have two questions about expenses and operating margins. You had relatively significant growth in headcount-related expenses, both in the quarter as well as for the year. Could you talk a little bit about what we should expect for headcount growth as we look into next year?   

And secondly, if you look at the midpoint of the guidance for next year, you're looking at maybe 60, 70 basis points of operating margin expansion year on year. How should we think about your strategy or your medium-term market expansion goal, say, over the next several years?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We will talk more extensively in terms of the years other than next year at FAM. So if I can leave the sort of longer-term picture to then, and then talk of last year and this year, and hopefully that will give you some flavor.   

In terms of headcount growth, from my point of view the good trend that we're seeing is a slowing of the headcount growth. So I'm certainly keen to see us grow from lower rates of headcount growth than we have seen in the last couple of years. We got down, on a year-on-year basis in the last quarter, to around 10%. Now that's still relatively high, but relative to, say, our level of revenue growth its much more -- I'm much more comfortable with that than the mid-teen levels that we were seeing six to twelve months ago. So headcount growth is in a better shape than it has been, from my perspective.   

In terms of next year embedded inside the guidance, as you can imagine, is both headcount growth and cost per head at those more moderated levels. That is going to vary quite differently between the different divisions, though. So, for example, we're building headcount in our Online business, and headcount is relatively flat in our prime business. So you're seeing quite different trends in where the hands are being added, adding up to the overall picture.   

It's a little similar comment to the margin structure. From my perspective in terms of margins, I think of the business in three parts. There's, if you like, our core businesses of Client, MBD and Server and Tools. Next year, collectively, you should expect their margins to be broadly equal to this year, which I think is a good result when you see what the growth rates are inherent in those businesses. You see EDD moving to profitability, so clearly that's a margin improvement. But obviously, still being very much in an investment phase, so it will be in a loss position, and hence a negative margin next year. Some of the improvements that we're making in EDD, effectively we're reinvesting in other space.   

But mid overall, as you say, midpoint of the guidance will be a slight improvement in margins next year. I'll talk a little bit more next week about how I feel overall for margins longer-term.   

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard with  Credit Suisse.

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Chris, Client and Server and Tools both came in a little bit lower than your guidance range. And I was just curious, if you would attribute that maybe to the stronger-than-expected strength in the EAs, or if you think maybe some of the chatter around the timing of SP 1 might have had an impact, or any commentary on what virtualization is going to the server market?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Actually, Client was very much in line with our guidance. It might have been a shade off, and to the extent that the Vista revenue recognition was a little lower than what we had indicated, but that was in the $20 million to $30 million category. Other than that, it was pretty much online.   

Server and Tools, you are correct, was a little light, and was for the reasons that you mentioned. But we had a very strong annuity mix of revenue inside Server and Tools, which helped us, obviously, from an unearned perspective; that's one of the reasons why our unearned was so strong, and also one of the reasons, consequently, why we flowed that through to higher revenue for next year. But in the quarter, it hurts us in the sense that when shipping license only that we recognize it all upfront to annuity that we recognize over the length of the contract, we don't get quite as much of a pop. So that is the principal reason why Server and Tools was at the light end of what we guided.   

JASON MAYNARD: Maybe just a follow-up on that then. When you take into consideration your guidance around unearneds for next year, are you assuming more normal historical type of EA mix rates, or do you think it's going to continue on this path that you saw in Q4?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think it could well continue. I think that the really interesting trend underlying this, and the strength of the product suite and offering that we have to customers, and their desire and willingness to stay on Enterprise Agreements for all sorts of reasons. Firstly, obviously, the product that we have; secondly, the ones that we have coming out. And people are clearly focused on Vista and Office as the big products that we've launched.   

But when you look at next year, which most people wouldn't have thought was a big launch year, and you think about new versions of Visual Studio, new versions of Windows Server, new visions of SQL Server, you have Performance Point, our business intelligence coming out, CRM LIVE -- there's a lot of different products that are appealing from a customer point of view. And staying on annuity also helps them from an administration and cost perspective.   

So I think there's lots of good reasons to think that we're seeing a potentially more sustainable trend on annuity mix, which hurts us a little bit in terms of upfront revenue recognition, but in terms of the overall health of the business, it is very positive from my perspective.   

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan with  Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just an observation; I'm just looking to get your explanation behind it. The rev rec positive change to the Client businesses seems to have changed relative to your earlier guidance. I'm looking at the presentation; it says $540 million. The previous guidance was for $660 million of positive change from the rev rec. Does that mean that you've made any changes in your assumptions of Vista relatives to XP in your mix for fiscal 2008 Client guidance?   

And as it relates to that, maybe if you could comment on, Chris, how are you seeing adoption of Vista in the Enterprise? Because it occurs to me that I think you have given us a very neat explanation as to how you get to the Client guidance. You have parsed out different elements. But the one piece that could be a swing factor is the business adoption seems like if we get better business adoption going into 2008, you might have a positive swing factor. I just was wondering if you had any comments on what kind of update we should expect that could cause the business premium mix to shift towards the positive. So it is really a two-part question there. Sorry about that.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'll cover both of them, if I can. In terms of the unearned, you're absolutely right. As we went from target seating, which we do around the March timeframe, the budgeting which we do -- last month, we fine-tuned the Vista/XP mix for next year. And we changed it from 85% to 78%. Now it's a lower number, but it's still a very high number overall from our perspective. So 78% Vista mix in terms of sales next year.   

Because of that change, then the amount of undelivered element that comes from Vista is slightly lower than it would be otherwise. The underlying sales are still exactly the same, but that accounting impact, as you correctly say, decreases from $660 million to $540 million. So from our point of view it's good that our outlook has pretty much exactly the same revenue overall, but the composition as a result of the accounting recognition is slightly different.   

In terms of the adoption from Business that is a slightly different parameter. Obviously, those two are liked to each other. And it's early days here, And we're seeing what we consider to be good customer response. But the next 12 to 18 months is really going to be the time when people are going to be looking seriously to roll it out. Looking out at the first stage, we think it's early days, but it's good. Could there be some upside there if we see businesses adopt it, not necessarily earlier, but had a refresh cycle which is a bit stronger than it is, and hence we get a bit more business premium relative to customer premium? Yes. That's not so much a rollout thing because we tend to get paid either way for XP or Vista. But it could help with the overall premium mix that I talked about a few minutes ago.   

KASH RANGAN: That's a lot different than the fiscal 2008 forecast, right?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Correct, yes.   

OPERATOR: We have time for one last question, please, operator.   

OPERATOR: Kirk Materne with  Bank of America.

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA: And maybe this is a little bit just on a follow-up on Kash's question. But on the business premium mix, can you give us an idea of what is in your forecast? It seems that your assumptions for the actual unit side of the business are pretty conservative in light of what you all have seen. Have you made any assumptions in terms of the premium mix getting better? It seems -- I think it was down 3% this quarter. Is that forecast to get a little better as we head into fiscal '08, or are you assuming it sort of stays at the same rate? And if it does get better that is sort of upside to what you are looking for?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of the overall premium mix, I'd say it's going to be in line with fiscal year 2007, which was 58% for the year. So plus or minus a percentage here or there, I think it's going to be broadly in line next year with what it was this year.   

As we have with our forecasts, and clearly external ones may differ, in terms of the Business and Consumer mix we would see business premium being down slightly and consumer premium being up. So it's the same trend that we saw this year. That's entirely driven by the fact that we expect the Consumer segment to grow faster than the Business segment, so therefore by definition the percentage will increase in favor relative to the customers.   

That could change around a bit. We're relatively conservative, I think, on Business growth overall, but I think it's appropriately conservative. We are seeing Consumer sales consistently outpacing Business sales for a number of years now, and I think that's the right starting place. Now obviously I would love to see some upside there, to the extent that we get a good price for business premium, but we have built-in what I think is an appropriate mix going forward.   

KIRK MATERNE: Maybe just one follow-up on that. In terms of the business premium, is there any gating factors from, say, a technology or cost standpoint, meaning I think the Enterprise Edition comes along with Software Assurance. Is there anything structurally that's keeping people from going to a higher premium mix on the business side, or is it simply just an adoption issue?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, you have two impacts. Consumers tend to buy Consumer, and Businesses tend to buy Business SKUs. So you've got that mix impact. Inside businesses, there's nothing structurally which is stopping them from buying one particular SKUs or another. You are right, the Software Assurance gets the Enterprises Edition, which most large businesses would favor. But it's about the features; it's not about the, if you like, the technology that probably drives the decision as to which SKU to take.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks to everyone for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business, July 19th, 2008.   

In addition, you can hear the replay by diving 866-517-3727 or, for international calls dial 203-369-2039. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business, July 27th, 2007.   

Thanks again for joining us today. And we look forward to seeing you next week at financial analyst meeting.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's  Microsoft conference call. We thank you for your participation.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070726e37j0025u
  


 HD
 Q3  2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
9,415 words
   PD
26 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and welcome to the  Microsoft 2007 fiscal year third quarter earnings conference call. (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Please be advised this call is being recorded. If you have any objections please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager Investor Relations. Please go ahead.   

COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER IR,  MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.   

   TD
Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the third quarter of fiscal year 2007, and then an overview of expectations for what remains of the fiscal year. I will then provide detail around our third quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the fourth quarter, as well as a preliminary Outlook for fiscal year 2008.   

After that we will take your questions. We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release, therefore you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. This slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance, and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today.   

You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at   www.Microsoft.com/MSFT  .   

This call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the  Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on April 26, 2008.   

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction, or distribution of this report, or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed permission of  Microsoft.

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the Risk Factors section of our 10-Q, our 2006 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.   

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.   

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP, CFO,  MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon everyone. Thanks for joining us today. We're going to use our prepared remarks this afternoon to share our third quarter results, discuss our outlook for the fourth quarter, and provide a preliminary view of fiscal 2008.   

I'm extremely pleased with the Company's financial performance during the quarter, as revenue, operating income and earnings per share exceeded our expectations, and each grew at strong double-digit rates.   

Our results were primarily driven by strength in our core product. Windows Vista and 2007  Microsoft Office System will have a multiyear impact, and both are off to a very good start.   

Revenue growth in the third quarter was 32%. And even if you were to exclude the $1.7 billion in recognition of previously deferred revenue, associated predominately with our Technology Guarantee Programs for Windows and Office, our revenue growth would have been an extremely good 17%. Four of our five businesses delivered double-digit growth. And we saw forward strength across all customer segments and channels.   

Excluding $0.01 in legal charges and a $0.02 tax benefit in the quarter, the revenue upside flows through the operating income and earnings per share, which came in at $0.03 to $0.04 higher than our guidance in January.   

Cash flow from operations was also over $7 billion, indicative of the underlying strength of our business, and was a record for the Company.   

Lastly, we continue to execute on our financial strategy. During the quarter we repurchased over $6.7 billion in Company stock, and paid out just under $1 billion in dividend. This brings combined year-to-date repurchases and dividends to over $22.5 billion, which represents over 150% of our cash flow from operations over that same period.   

Moving now to the full fiscal year, we expect a strong finish to what has been an excellent year. We are increasing our revenue, operating income and earnings per share guidance for the year on the strength of our new product launches. Excluding certain legal charges and tax benefits in the prior and current years, we expect revenue growth in excess of 15%, and earnings per share growth in excess of 16%.   

For both high level themes for the quarter and for the full year 2007, I'm going to turn the call over to Colleen for more details on our third quarter performance.   

COLLEEN HEALY: As Chris mentioned, the results for Q3 were excellent. Let me provide you with details on our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss topline financial and business momentum points, and then follow-up with revenue performance for each of the business units. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.   

Revenue for the quarter grew 32% to $14.4 billion, which includes $1.7 billion in recognition primarily from Technology Guarantee Program. Excluding the recognition of these deferrals, revenue growth would have been 17%.   

Growth this quarter was driven by sales in our Client and Microsoft Business Division, following the general availability of Windows Vista, and the 2007  Microsoft Office System in January. And Server and Tools had another solid quarter. These three core businesses turned in notable performance, each growing at a double-digit rate, and collectively growing revenues 22%, or over $2 billion in absolute growth before the recognition of the Tech Guarantees.   

We saw continued strength in the underlying PC hardware market, which we estimate grew 10 to 12% during the quarter, a bit faster than we had expected. Growth in emerging markets continues to outpace that of mature markets, and the consumer PC shipment growth outpaced business shipments.   

Europe, Asia, excluding Japan and Latin America, maintained double-digit growth rates, while the remaining regions grew at single digits.   

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was approximately 30% from OEMs, over 25% from multiyear licensing agreements, over 20% from license only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. The mix this quarter versus the same period in the prior year is higher in license only sales, primarily due to retail sales following the consumer launches of Windows Vista and the 2007  Microsoft Office System, and lower in our other businesses due to our core product making up a higher mix of revenue this quarter, as you would expect given where we are in our various product lifecycles.   

Our field salesforce saw broad strength across our customer segments and regions. Our small, midmarket and retail sales group actively engaged with our customers and partners, readying the market for the product launches. And the entertainment salesforce drove robust volume license sales, and entertainment and enterprise agreements renewal rates at the high-end of our historical range of 66 to 75%. We are delighted that the benefits and value proposition offered in the recent releases of our flagship product are resonating with customers.   

As a result of a strong annuity licensing results, our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter at $10.3 billion, up 16% over the same period in the prior year. Our contracted not billed balance at the end of March was sequentially higher, and continues to exceed $9.5 billion.   

Taking into account reported revenue and changes in the unearned and contracted not billed balances, bookings growth totaled 20%, with bookings in our core business of Client, Microsoft Business Division and Server and Tools growing 25%.   

Before closing out the revenue overview, let me add that changes in foreign exchange rates added about 2 percentage points to our overall revenue growth rate in the quarter, and was generally in line with our expectations going into the quarter.   

Now I will provide revenue highlights by business segment. Client revenue of $5.3 billion, an increase of 67%, includes the recognition of $1.2 billion from Tech Guarantees and preshipment. Adjusting for this impact, Client revenue would have been $4.1 billion, up 30%, driven by growth in all channels due to the successful consumer launches of Windows Vista during the quarter.   

OEM revenue increased 24%, excluding the recognition of the Tech Guarantee deferrals, driven by 20% growth in OEM license units. The 8 to 10% point difference between OEM license unit growth and the overall PC market growth during the quarter is a result of a normal spike in license sales on the launch of a new operating system in our system builder channel, restocking of retail inventory levels by OEMs as a result of the consumer launch, and continued progress on unlicensed PCs under our existing program.   

Consistent with the results we saw last quarter and the relative strength in the Consumer segment following the launch, we continue to see a change within the mix of sales of our Premium Edition operating system. OEM Premium mix was 71%, an increase of 18 percentage points from the prior year, driven by sales of Windows Vista Home Premium, while our other business editions of Windows declined a few points in the overall mix.   

As we shared with you previously, Windows Vista business generates over five times the pricing [up less] of our Windows Vista Home Basic and of Windows Vista Home Premium. So the net result is that the increase in Premium mix added about 1 percentage point of growth to OEM revenue.   

Client, commercial and retail licensing grew 63%, excluding the recognition of prelaunch revenue deferrals, driven by strong sales to the retail channel following the consumer launch of Windows Vista and a very healthy commercial business.   

Server and Tools revenue of $2.7 billion grew 15%, primarily driven by double-digit growth in Windows Server, SQL Server and Visual Studio, as well as growth in our consulting and premier services. Also, during the quarter we launched Systems Center Operations Manager 2007, which provides end-to-end management for the monitoring and reporting of Windows environments.   

In our Online Services Business we saw continued improvement in our advertising platform monetization, which resulted in advertising revenue growth of 23%. Revenue for our Online Services Business overall increased 11% to $6.2 million, driven by the growth in advertising revenue, partially offset by an expected decline in access revenue.   

Search revenue benefited from a higher number of search queries, and increased revenue per search on both a year-on-year and consequential basis. We are now monetizing more effectively in the U.S. on our own Accessor platform than we had under third-party overture at this time last year.   

Our display growth was in line with what is a healthy market, driven by an increase in page views. This quarter we forged content partnerships with Newscorp, NBC and CBS to enhance MSN's premium video inventory.   

Microsoft Business Solutions revenue of $4.8 billion grew 34%, or 20% after adjusting for the Tech Guarantee. Growth was driven by both consumer and business sales of the 2007  Microsoft Office System following the recent launches. The performance for the quarter was highlighted by a strong consumer response to the 2007  Microsoft Office System, which drove better than expected retail sales.   

We are also pleased with the results of our Dynamics business which showed healthy performance across both the ERP and CRM productlines, driving a 20% increase in customer billing.   

During the quarter we announced plans to acquire Tellme Network, bringing this industry-leading expertise and voice services to our existing speech platform and unified communications offering.   

Consistent with our guidance, Entertainment and Devices revenue decreased 21% as a result of lower Xbox 360 sales. We sold over 500,000 Xbox 360 consoles during the quarter, bringing our life to date sell-in to approximately $11 million. Software and accessory attach rates remain at record levels in the U.S. per [NTV], and we have passed the 6 million member mark for Xbox Live.   

Our Mobile and Embedded Devices business continued to turn in strong performance, with revenue growth in excess of 30%.   

During the quarter we unveiled Windows Mobile 6, the next version of our Windows Mobile software platform. We expect to see an increasing number of Windows Mobile 6 power devices coming to market through the rest of this year.   

Now for the rest of the income statement. Cost of revenue increased 6%, primarily driven by data center cost, product costs associated with the launch of Windows Vista, and the growth in consulting services, partially offset by a decline in Xbox 360 consul sales.   

Other operating expenses increased $928 million, or 20%, excluding legal charges of $154 million in the current quarter and $397 million in the same quarter from the prior year. This is favorable to our expectations, due primarily to shifting some marketing and product development costs into the fourth quarter.   

Operating income of $6.6 billion, or $5.1 billion after adjusting for the impact of the Tech Guarantee deferrals and legal charges, is up 18% from the prior year, driven by the 22% revenue growth in our core businesses of Client, Microsoft Business Division, and Server and Tools.   

Investment income and other totaled $382 million for the quarter. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 29%, and was lower than expected due to a $195 million onetime tax benefit.   

Cash flow from operations increased 60% to $7.3 billion. During the quarter we repurchased 237 million shares, or $6.7 billion of Company stock, and paid out $976 million in dividends to shareholders. Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 9.9 billion, down 5% from the prior year as a result of execution against our share repurchase program.   

Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.50, which includes the following non-recurring items -- $0.12 related to the impact of the Tech Guarantees, a tax benefit of $0.02 offset by $0.01 in legal charges. So in summary, the third quarter broadly exceeded our expectations, driven by the extremely positive consumer response to the launches of our flagship products.   

With that, let me now turn it back to Chris, who will now provide you with our expectations for the fourth quarter and a preliminary outlook for fiscal year 2008.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let me now outline some key assumptions that we have used in putting together the outlook for the fourth quarter. Firstly, we estimate that PC unit growth for the quarter will be 10 to 12%. Within the overall PC market we expect current trends to continue, with a consumer segment growth exceeding that of the business segment, and emerging market growth exceeding that of mature markets. In contrast, third-party analysts have lowered their full year server hardware growth estimate to 4 to 6%. And although Server and Tools revenue is impacted by many additional factors, we have incorporated that into our guidance.   

Lastly, our guidance for the fourth quarter assumes that changes in foreign exchange rates will not have a significant impact on revenue growth rates for the quarter.   

So now for our detailed guidance. We expect fourth quarter revenue of $13.1 billion to $13.4 billion, growing 11 to 14%. Revenue guidance by business group is largely consistent with what we provided in January. And so in the interested time I will simply provide you with the numbers.   

For Client we expect revenue growth of 14 to 15% for the fourth quarter. For Server and Tools, 16 to 17%. For Online Services, 10 to 15%. Although excluding Access subscription and transactions revenue, this implies advertising growth of 19 to 27%. For Microsoft Business Division, 13 to 14%. And finally, Entertainment and Devices revenue is expected to be down 2% to 11% in the fourth quarter.   

Now moving on to operating income. For the fourth quarter we expect to generate between $5.0 billion and $5.2 billion of operating income, representing 28% to 33% growth over the prior year. Well, 17 to 22% when legal charges of $351 million from the year ago quarter are excluded.   

This was lower than the implied guidance from January due primarily to two factors. The first is a shift in operating expenses from the third quarter, as our full year total remains consistent with what we said in January. The second is higher COGS related to Xbox consul and Windows Vista retail sales.   

We now estimate a fourth quarter effective tax rate of 31.5% due to a greater mix of forecasted earnings in higher tax rate jurisdictions. For diluted earnings per share we expect $0.37 to $0.39 for the fourth quarter.   

So with that fourth quarter guidance we arrive at the following expectations for the fiscal year. Revenue between $50.9 billion and $51.2 billion, representing growth of 15 to 16%. Operating income of $19.5 billion to $19.7 million, or excluding certain legal charges, $19.7 billion to $19.9 billion, representing growth of 12 to 13%. And for fully diluted earnings per share of $1.48 to $1.50. Or adjusting for certain legal charges and tax benefits, $1.47 to $1.49, and representing growth of 16 to 17%.   

We are clearly pleased that our strong performance in Q3 has allowed us to raise our revenue, operating income and earnings per share estimates for the full year.   

From a balance sheet perspective, we expect unearned revenue to finish the year up 8 to 10%, an increase of 2 percentage points from our January guidance. This increase reflects our growing confidence in multiyear contract billings in Q4, where the revenue opportunity, and undoubtedly risk, is the largest we have seen in two years. The deal pipeline is robust. The value proposition for multiyear contracts are strong. And the product portfolio is broad and deep.   

With that, let's turn to our fiscal year '08 preliminary outlook. As is always the case at this time of year, we are providing you with our first look at the next fiscal year prior to finalizing our internal budgeting and planning process. Reflecting where we are in the planning cycle and consistent with our past practice, we're not currently in a position to give specific business group detail. I should also highlight that this guidance provides you with a view that balances both the risks and opportunities as we currently see them.   

For context, our expectations are based on a stable IT spending environment. 2007 IT spending has been generally healthy. And although we may see softening in select areas, such as server hardware growth, we're not expecting any significant changes on a regional basis in fiscal 2008. Also, we're not modeling any significant impact to year-over-year revenue growth from changes in foreign exchange rates.   

The continuous product innovation we have been stressing for two years is driving our expected growth. And our product cycle continues in the next 12 months with the launches of, for example, Longhorn Server, the next version of our CRM software and live CRM service, Halo 3, the next version of Visual Studio, new Windows Live Search and communication services, office communications server, Expression Studio, Office Performance Point Server, Forefront Client Security, and many other products and services from across the Company.   

We expect our productline ought to generate revenue of $56.5 billion to $57.5 billion in fiscal '08, representing growth of 11 to 12%. On an absolute basis this translates into an increase of over $5.5 billion, an amount larger than the total annual revenue of some Fortune 500 companies.   

As we have previewed with you since October, this guidance reflects the requirements for Windows Vista revenue recognition, which results in a relatively faster revenue recognition as compared to Windows XP, where we have stood at 5 to do 25% of license revenue.   

We are committed to transparency on this, so I would like to provide you with our revenue guidance adjusted for the impact of Windows Vista revenue recognition. We have included slide 20 in our earnings slide deck, which provide you with detail on the associated underlying balance sheet and P&L adjustments.   

Had we never deferred from delivered elements on Windows XP sales, our expected accounting revenue would be approximately $220 million lower in fiscal '07, and $660 million lower in fiscal '08. These figures represent the near annual amount of revenue we expect to recognize from the undelivered elements account on the balance sheet.   

From a year-over-year growth perspective, this impact represents approximately 0.5 percentage point of consolidated corporate revenue growth in fiscal '07, and approximately 1 percentage point of consolidated corporate revenue growth in fiscal '08.   

Applied specifically to the Client business in fiscal '08, we expect a 3 percentage point impact in year-over-year Client revenue growth as a result of the Windows Vista revenue recognition methodology.   

Of course, the magnitude of revenue impact varies with the underlying sales mix between Windows Vista and Windows XP, our fiscal '08 guidance numbers assume a unit mix of 85% Windows Vista, and 15% Windows XP. The amount of impact we have highlighted today could differ materially to the extent that transition to Windows Vista from Windows XP differs from our forecast. In other words, the faster the transition to Windows Vista, the bigger and more positive the impact will be in fiscal '08.   

While on the subject of Client revenue, we recognize there's a lot of interest in our outlook for fiscal '08. Although we won't be providing specific Client business guidance on the call today, I would like to briefly provide you with some directional expectations.   

For your convenience, we have laid these out for you on slide 21 of our earnings slide deck. The starting point for any analysis in our Client business should begin with PC sales in mature markets, which we expect to grow in mid single digit range. We expect to get a modest uplift from emerging markets, where the underlying market growth is higher, and we have the opportunity to reduce piracy. Offsetting this uplift is the successful launch of Windows Vista in 2007, which creates a difficult retail comp in fiscal '08.   

Adding these together, our expectation is that Client organic revenue growth in fiscal '08 will be in line with, or slightly better than, the mid single digit growth rate for PC sales in mature markets. And that Client GAAP revenue growth will be 3 percentage points higher than the organic growth rate, due to Windows Vista revenue recognition methodology.   

We will provide our specific Client revenue guidance for fiscal '08 in July, but I hope this provide you with some insight into how we're thinking about our forecast, and assist you with your modeling.   

Now moving on to operating income. Operating income is expected to be between $22.0 billion and $22.5 billion. Excluding certain legal charges in fiscal '07, operating income growth of 12 to 14% is slightly faster than revenue growth. This guidance implies incremental year-over-year COGS, plus OpEx spending of between $3.3 billion and $3.6 billion, when you exclude legal charges in fiscal '07.   

Of these amounts, somewhat less than $2.7 billion is operating expenses, which is consistent with our commentary at the February analyst meeting in New York.   

I would like to take time here to provide you with some of the key drivers behind our COGS and OpEx spending in fiscal '08. First, let's cover COGS. Incremental COGS spending will be in excess of $600 million, driven primarily by two factors. One, network infrastructure costs and delivering Online Services such as Windows Live, Office Live, CRM Live and Xbox Live. And, two, increased scale of our consultant services business. Higher overall revenues and greater unit sales of Zune and Xbox 360 will have some impact as well.   

In terms of incremental operating expenses, I would like to describe the underlying drivers using the same four categories we used for fiscal '07. The largest category remains our broad array of investments in high growth areas. As we continue to stress, innovation drives long-term growth, and we intend to continue to invest in the best opportunities. This makes up over one-third of the incremental OpEx in fiscal '08.   

The second largest category is our investment in Services, which makes up about one-quarter of the incremental OpEx in the business. The Online Services area is also critical to our future success, and we have built up an appropriate level of potential future investment that reflects our current thinking.   

The third category is marketing and field sales costs, which makes up about 25% of the total. The remainder of the incremental operating expenses are driven by general increases in costs, as well as unallocated spending related to small acquisitions that we may do during the year.   

Now for the rest of the income statement. We expect investment income to be lower in fiscal '08 due to lower cash balances resulting from our stock repurchases in fiscal '07. We're also modeling a 30.5% tax rate in fiscal '08, driven by a higher mix of earnings in lower tax rate jurisdictions. Our forecast for fully diluted earnings per share is therefore $1.68 to $1.72, representing growth of 14 to 15%, excluding legal charges and tax benefits in fiscal '07. Similar to fiscal '07, we expect to grow earnings this year at a rate faster than revenue and operating income.   

As always, I will remind you that as you think about the guidance we have provided you, also consider the risks. Those risks include competitive, legal, execution and general market risks, as well as PC and Turbo hardware growth rates and customer acceptance of our product.   

Also, our emerging businesses are harder to forecast when compared to our mature businesses. As they become a lighter part of the overall financial mix, they may contribute to increased volatility in our performance.   

I would like to wrap up today with two final and brief observations. The first is that if we take a step back and look at the results we have delivered, as well as the guidance provided for fiscal '08, you find that we're going revenue, profits and earnings per share an impressive rate on both an absolute and relative basis for a company our size. For example, excluding legal charges and tax benefits, our fiscal '08 guidance implies earnings per share growth of $0.41 to $0.45, or 32 to 35% over two years.   

The second observation is that I believe the third quarter results and the guidance we have provided are indicative of how we build long-term shareholder value in the Company. We do so by driving robust revenue growth for our established cores in the desktop and server markets, as well as by building new cores in online services and entertainment. By translating that revenue growth into strong operating profits and cash flow, allowing us the flexibility to make significant investments to drive future growth. And finally by returning capital to shareholders through repurchases and dividends.   

We believe this is an optimal model for delivering long-term shareholder value. And I'm pleased that our third quarter and our forward-looking outlook reflect our execution against this.   

Thank you for your time today. And I will now hand the call over to Colleen so we can take your questions.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Okay, let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions, and limit yourselves to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?   

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini, UBS.   

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I actually had a question about the premium mix that you reported. It seems to be coming in much better than what you guys had forecasted prior to Vista launching. I just wanted to get your sense for how you think this is going to track over time, and should we hold constant this type of Vista premium mix adoption?   

I guess the other question would be in terms of 85, 15 mix that you're forecasting between Vista and XP, how would that have compared to your expectations of what actually happens when XP launched? Thank you.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of the premium mix, you're right, it is coming in above our expectations then and are good. Within that obviously you do have a shift between Pro and what was previously media standard. There's a mix shift within the mix. We think that we are going to see in fiscal year '08 a continuation of the trend that we saw in fiscal year '07. So the numbers from a premium point of view will be broadly the same.   

What we're thinking of doing probably for next year is to start to give you some more visibility into how that premium mix is made up. Because, as we have talked about on previous calls, this is quite a different economic impact, depending on in this case whether it is Vista Premium or Vista Business, one being five times the economic benefit relative to the Other. So we'll continue to give you the premium mix as we see, which you can think of as being broadly equal to fiscal year '07. So a lot of the benefit that we are seeing. But will also start to give you some visibility into the split of that premium mix going forward as well.   

HEATHER BELLINI: Okay. Great.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: What was the second half of your question?   

HEATHER BELLINI: The second question was related to the -- you commented about a 85% Windows Vista mix, 15% XP. What did you see during the last cycle when XP launched, what was the mix?   

COLLEEN HEALY: It is not going to be terribly comparable just because of also the SKUs structure.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: But generally speaking it is faster. So 85, 15 that is very healthy. Now it obviously may vary on that, and it is going to depend on the consumer versus the business.   

HEATHER BELLINI: Are you forecasting faster adoption of Vista than what you saw for adoption of XP, I guess, is the question?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I guess we don't think of it that way. We don't do a comparison back to that. But if you look at the math of it, that is likely to be the result. What we are looking at is the underlying trends we see in the business relative to Vista, regardless of what might have happened four years ago. And as we see the mix in consumer versus business, and as we see the overall growth rates, and as we see the current adoption, we think 85% is a reasonable starting point for next year.   

COLLEEN HEALY: You know, obviously, the variable there that people look to is on the business side. How quickly they're adopting. And we feel like because this version, as you'll remember when was in beta was very widely tested, we feel like the tools and costs associated with it and ease of images, we are optimistic. But we still don't want to get ahead of ourselves.   

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.   

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Chris, you spent a lot of time clarifying client guidance and accounting, but I'm wondering if I could may be changed gears for a second and look at my favorite group, the Online Services group? It seems like from your financial results this quarter and from some of the external metrics that you sort of maybe stopped some of the deterioration there. And certainly any metrics more that you want to share there would be appreciated.   

But going forward now that you have sort of stabilized the patient, can you maybe talk strategically about how you want to get him up off the table and move in the right direction? And maybe also how you're going to build share and community, and how OSG relates in that process to the other business groups, both in building its business and then feeding back into those ones?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: There are lots to digest in that one. But let me cover the ground, and then get back on the particular aspect. You're absolutely right. From a quarterly point of view this was a much better quarter for OSB. If you exclude the access and subscription business, the advertising revenue, which is probably the single best metric to look at in terms of growth year-on-year, was up 23%. And if you look at the guidance that we're talking about for next quarter, we're looking at greater than 20% again in the fourth quarter as well.   

That is a reflection of a number of factors. One is display growth revenue growing broadly in line with market. The second is the benefits now (inaudible) are coming onstream. So we have talked with you about this a lot. And we said that we would lap out previous monetization rate on adCenter at some stage this fiscal year. Well, we did that in that third quarter. So we're a little ahead of ourselves. We were expecting more like fourth quarter, but we did that in the third quarter. So we are ahead of where we were on the Overture platform of a year ago now. And obviously on an appreciating trend.   

And when we look at the number of advertisers that we're getting on the platform, we're getting at or above the rates that we were expecting. And with considerably less advertisers on the Overture platform we're getting a higher monetization.   

So we're feeling very good about the rates that we are seeing in terms of adCenter overall. And that is feeding through to the revenue growth numbers that you see, if you exclude the access. And again, we will try quarter by quarter to give you that advertising number to give you a sense of the health of the underlying business.   

To your broader question about strategy, from our point of view it is a continuation of what we have talked about, which is we're going to invest in this business because we see it as a long-term one. We certainly -- we liked a lot of the growth that we are getting on the display side. We are happy with it. On the communication side, you have got the growth in Hotmail and Messenger accounts, which we don't curly monetize to any great extent, but is still extremely healthy.   

And we're very happy with, for example, some of the relevancy in the underlying product in our Search. We aren't happy, clearly, with the market share we have. So some things we are happy with, some things that we're not happy with, or I would like to see a lot better. But we are going to continue to invest.   

We're going to continue to invest in the infrastructure of the business. We will continue to invest in new products. We will continue to invest in the Search relevancy side of things. And in terms of the infrastructure, that will support not only the online business, but it will support Office Live. It will support Xbox Live. That is another healthy statistic from our point of view, with greater than 6 million customers now on Xbox Live. So that is a very good platform. So the platform will support that area.   

In terms of accounting to a large extent we bear the costs inside the Online Services area without trying to change accounting around. We may try and give you more visibility into how it helps some of the other businesses, but certainly strategically it helps them quite a lot.   

OPERATOR: Adam Holt,  JP Morgan.

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: My question is about the underlying strength in the Office business or the MBD category. If you strip out the onetime events in the quarter, it looks like you still had about 20% growth in MBD. I guess what I'm trying to understand is, number one, what was the mix between what came off the balance sheet relative to what was new business?   

Number two, understanding there's a little bit of retail spike here, how should we think about the Enterprise business feathering in over the next couple of quarters, particularly in the context of how you compare that to Vista?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think it is great. We tend to get 90% of our questions about Client, and to a large extent the MBD business is a real success story in the third quarter. We exceeded our revenue expectations by around $200 million. And that was on the back of, to a large extent just very good retail sales. So sales of units out the door. We feel like that is a direct customer acceptance of a very good product.   

It didn't result from any balance sheet movements. In fact, we are slightly penalized because of the change in MBD revenue recognition inside that division. But to a large extent very good customer acceptance, very good retail sales inside the quarter.   

In terms of annuities going forward, which is probably more of the case when you -- obviously we're not going to at this date give you fiscal year '08 numbers, but for the fourth quarter a continuation of very good revenue growth numbers inside that division. And embedded inside fiscal year '08 we think the business will continue to do well. I am happy, very happy with the retail acceptance of the product. From an annuity point of view and a business point of view, the stage is early days, but it is good as well.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Just in terms of that housekeeping matter, we had that about $0.5 billion of Tech Guarantee. Your 20% year-on-year is the normalized growth, and we think it speaks to the strength of the business and the launch in the quarter.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: But to be clear, 20% is excluding the Tech Guarantee impact.   

ADAM HOLT: If I could just ask a follow-up on that, if you were to look at this business, adding into the next quarter with respect to the small business segment of it, are you seeing small businesses gravitate towards long-term contracts, or do you think the small business activity is going to be principally more like licensing and more like the consumer?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We aren't seeing any marked difference in the pick up to any great extent. The same split that we have seen in terms of 40% annuity, 40% license only is broadly speaking what we are expecting going forward.   

ADAM HOLT: Terrific. Thank you.   

COLLEEN HEALY: And just to add to that, the metrics -- certainly the 20% billings growth does speak to the Dynamics business, which targets more of that segment that you're talking about. And then on the CRM side, we did announce in March reaching that milestone of 10,000 customers and 400,000 users. And we're continuing to work the value proposition there.   

OPERATOR: John DiFucci, Bear Stearns.   

JOHN DIFUCCI, ANALYST, BEAR STEARNS: Chris, you tell us what the impact of the Technology Guaranteed Program was on the Client business. But you also mentioned a couple of other events are different this quarter versus previous quarters. There was a revenue rec change and also the channel preparation for the launch. Can you tell us what the growth would have been if you excluded both of those? And along the same lines, just to follow, on the revenue rec change, are you going to -- the numbers you threw out there seemed a little low to me, looking at the next -- the rest of this year and next. Are you going to give us what the impact has been on a quarterly basis?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We will certainly give you the Vista revenue recognition impact on a quarter by quarter basis. That is what we can mostly right at the start. We are very happy to do it. If you look at the chart that I referred to -- I'm not sure you had a chance to as I was speaking -- it gives you it in black and white. It is $220 million in fiscal year '07 and $660 million in fiscal year '08.   

Of that $220 million in fiscal year '07, it was broadly equal in Q3 and Q4. And that would have had about 0.5% impact from a growth rate point of view. That is just for the Vista revenue recognition impact. And just for the Company overall and for Client it was around 3%.   

So we are certainly happy to work through the math. I know there's a lot of moving parts, but we will give you total transparency to the extent we can.   

JOHN DIFUCCI: Even though in Q3 there was only two quarters that really had the impact -- I mean, two months of the three months in the quarter, you think it will be evenly split? And then just the first question, if you included that impact, plus the channel preparation for the launches, I think either you or Colleen mentioned generally usually you see a spike in the revenue. Just due to that, and during a launch quarter what would the Client growth have been?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: If I work through the math, if you start with PC unit growth in the quarter, it was around 10 to 12. We saw OEM unit growth of 20%. So the units grew in excess of PC units. And that is people stocking obviously or restocking, and some of the system builder channel impacts as well. So unit growth of around 20%. If you exclude the Vista and the Tech Guarantee, the OEM revenue grew broadly in line to 21% relative to 20% growth.   

The commercial and retail, which this is obviously the retail spike, grew 67%. Sorry, I beg your pardon, 53%, then Client revenue overall would have grown 27%. So if you exclude all the accounting impacts, that is probably the easiest way to work through it. But it is still a very healthy quarter, up 27%.   

OPERATOR: Sara Friar,  Goldman Sachs.

SARA FRIAR, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Maybe you could switch to just the Entertainment and Devices Division. Could you just give us some clarity, Chris, on whether you are still expecting profitability for that division?   

And finally, obviously that has been a big milestone. And then I think last quarter it seemed as if you were managing that inventory. But I assume that is somewhat ahead of a price cut. So any further color you could give us there would be great.   

And then just one more on Halo 3 launch. What are you expecting in terms of impact from Halo 3, and just overall attach rates as the cycle gets a little bit more mature?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure, if I start with the second one first. So the sales during the quarter in terms of sell-in were around 500,000 consuls. The sell-through, that is what the retailers sells, was higher than that, so our inventory levels did come down. And down to more around sort of normal levels we would expect. We did a good inventory movement during the course of the quarter.   

In terms of profitability for next year that is certainly the target. And we're working through our budgeting process now, but from my point of view, anyway, that is the starting point going into next year. Obviously, there's a lot of moving parts there in terms of our ability to take COGS of the system, how many units we sell, and factors like that. But that is certainly the starting point.   

In terms of Halo 3, that is clearly going to have a positive impact in two sense. One, it gives us more confidence with the number of consoles that we think we are going to be able to sell next year. In terms of a direct impact, obviously it is a third-party product, so it is reasonably profitable from our point of view. And it will be several hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue next year.   

SARA FRIAR: Terrific. And no change competitively this quarter? It was just Sony and Nintendo?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm sorry, what was that?   

SARA FRIAR: Any changes competitively from the other two big game vendors, Sony and Nintendo?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, nothing of significance. We are obviously very happy from a competitive point of view with the response in the marketplace, but nothing of significance.   

OPERATOR: Kirk Materne, Banc of America Securities.   

KIRK MATERNE, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Chris, you mentioned going into your fourth quarter you have a number of large multiyear deals up for renewal. Can you just give us some color perhaps around how many of those deals involves say up-selling a large enterprise from say the business version to get them on the enterprise version, which would also take them into a longer-term agreement with you guys around software assurance?   

I'm just trying to get a sense on how many of those type of deals are still out there where a customer might be on software assurance for Office but not for Vista, for example. Any color around that would be helpful.   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I can't give you a proportion, but I think if I talk about it the way the field thinks about it, every license that comes up for renewal is an opportunity to sell additional products. And when you think about it, it is a three-year anniversary generally speaking. So in the last three years if you think about the product we have launched, it is not just the obvious ones of Vista and Office. There's a significant amount of additional products that the field now has the ability to sell as part of an Enterprise agreement.   

So there is a significant amount of number of contracts coming up. And clearly there is some risk to the extent those people now have an entitlement to Vista and Office, but there is an opportunity because of all the other products. I don't want to say there is an X percent where we think we will be successful. But we certainly feel good about maintaining the renewal rate of two-thirds to three-quarters, and in some instances they would be additional products as well.   

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan,  Merrill Lynch.

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I just want to clarify on the EPS guidance, Chris or Colleen, for fiscal '08, that doesn't conclude the positive impact from the rev rec rate, so how would you quantify that if you look at the $1.68 to $1.72, that is $0.04 to $0.05 positive impact from the rev rec seem like a reasonable assumption?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: We give the specific number, so depending on how you treat it. But if we look at the GAAP unearned income that comes off our balance sheet and flows -- we expect to flow through the income statement next year, it is $660 million. So that will equate to around $0.04 a share, if you take an after-tax and divide it by our number of shares. So that number may go up or down slightly depending on our actual sales and the mix of Vista and XP. But if you just take our guidance as it sits, it would be around $0.04 a share.   

KASH RANGAN: What is the confidence level at this early point in the cycle, with 85% Vista, 15% XP assumption? What we hear from our surveys is that a lot of the Enterprises seem to want to do an implementation of Vista in 2008. So how are you thinking about the confidence level in the 85, 15 mix between Vista and XP?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: It is early days, so the standard deviation is quite high. But I will just say that our fiscal year '08 picked up the first six months of calendar year 2008. So to the extent that some people are on the sidelines waiting, they may well be looking at a position of early next year. And that would pick up our fiscal year. It could be a relatively high swing between 85, 15. From a revenue recognition point of view that might move around from an accounting perspective. From a cash flow point of view, it is not really going to have a significant impact.   

KASH RANGAN: Finally, the units on Vista you disclosed, I think one month after the launch, was 20 million. Any update on that during the quarter how many units of Vista? And if you could break that out between OEM, update and retail, that would be useful (inaudible).   

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, I don't have a number to give you today. I'm happy to talk to the Client people, and if there's a number they would like to give out, we will follow-up with that.   

COLLEEN HEALY: We have time for one last question please, operator.   

OPERATOR: Brent Thill,  Citigroup.

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Next year for fiscal '08 on operating margins, I believe that implies roughly flat with '07. Can you help us reconcile, considering that you're headed in probably the strongest point of your product cycle in a number of years, how you expect that operating margin to play out with regards to what your long-term model looks like and where you were at a couple of years ago at much higher operating margins?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I will start with just the guidance we have given you, at least on a GAAP basis. So we talk about revenue growth of 11 to 12, and operating income growth of 12 to 14. So you see a slight margin expansion based on that. Although some of that is obviously the Vista accounting impact, and obviously earnings per share growing at 14 to 15, so higher again. So a little bit improved margins in that respect.   

When I look at next year, we are still in investment mode in Online Services. We are looking at year-on-year growth on expenses broadly in line with what we have talked about. And we're talking about growing the Company's revenue base allow 11 to 12%. So if we can get margin expansion, I think that is tremendous. I think you have to look at the underlying businesses and look at them one by one. But if we can grow the Company topline 11 to 12% and maintain, or possibly slightly enhance, our margin structure, I think that is a good starting base for a company of our size.   

BRENT THILL: I would just be curious to get your thoughts. A number of the hardware companies have mentioned a sluggish March. It appears that you're not seeing that. Maybe offer some thoughts in terms of what the difference is there.   

And also to follow-up on the business segment, you mentioned the consumer segment is tracking ahead of the business. When do you expect the business segment to really expect to kick in?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: Obviously we have a lot of different cycles from a hardware manufacturer, given the number of businesses that we're in. You have to look across the whole suite of our businesses. The thing that I would say is we're not seeing any significant slowdown in aggregate across our businesses. Individual businesses may have some, but certainly for the Company overall, given the multiplicity of businesses we're involved in, we are seeing healthy demand.   

And we have a good international business as well, which helps as well. I assume your question was mainly around North America, but a large number of our sales are outside North America. And the economies are doing very well there. And we're certainly seeing growth rates that are very good there as well. So no particular aspects there. What was the second part of your question?   

BRENT THILL: Just in terms of when do you think the business segment starts to maybe eclipse the consumer segment, when you see that strength kicking in?   

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think the business segment is probably going to continue to be broadly equal to what it is at the moment. And so it is really around consumer growth, and whether that changes or not. But if the business growth continues in the sort of mid single digits, the consumer growth is probably growing in excess of 10%, so I don't necessarily see that inverting for the foreseeable future. I think customer growth would have to slide down quite a lot in order to dip below business growth, which I think is going to remain relatively healthy.   

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks so much. And thanks to everyone for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business, April 26, 2008.   

In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-479-2456, or for international calls dial 203-369-1531. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business, May 4, 2007. Thanks again for joining us today.   

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's  Microsoft conference call. We thank you for your participation.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | c411 : Management Moves | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070503e34q00366
  


 HD
 Q2  2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,923 words
   PD
25 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Microsoft 2007 fiscal year second-quarter earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the second quarter of fiscal year 2007 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. I will then provide detail around our second-quarter results and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and the third quarter of fiscal 2007. After that, we will take your questions.  

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release; therefore, you have available the earnings release MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today.  

You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on January 25, 2008.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call and in the Risk Factors section of our 10-Q or 2006 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP AND CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to be with you today to share our second-quarter results and discuss our outlook for the remainder of fiscal 2007.  

Looking back over the second quarter, I would characterize it as a very good close to the first half of the year, and it continues our progress for an excellent year overall. All aspects of our financial performance came in at or above the high end of our guidance. We were happy to see the PC hardware market strength in the quarter, and by launching our flagship products to business customers at the end of November, we passed the last significant milestone towards forward availability.  

Looking at our second-quarter financial performance, revenue grew 6%. If you were to exclude the $1.6 billion revenue deferral associated predominately with our Technology Guarantee Program for Windows and Office, our revenue growth would have been 20%. That is impressive growth for any company, let alone one of our size.  

Business customer demand for our Server and Tools and Microsoft Business Division products was healthy across major geographies in both our large and small customer segments. And looking specifically at sales in December, we saw encouraging signs of early demand for the 2007 Microsoft Office system, Exchange Server 2007 and Windows Vista.  

Retail demand during the holiday quarter was robust for consumer PCs as well as for Xbox 360 consoles and games, helping to push revenue for both Client and Entertainment and Devices to the upper end of our quarterly guidance.  

Operating income benefited from both the strong revenue as well as lower spending, primarily on marketing programs, most of which shifted out of quarter two and into the rest of the year. The operating income results flowed through the P&L and drove EPS numbers that came in $0.02 to $0.04 above what we told you in October.  

Moving to the full fiscal year, 2007 continues to deliver excellent financial performance. Next week, we celebrate the consumer launches of Windows Vista and the 2007 Office system. Our product groups will have put in significant work to deliver what are truly compelling products, and now our customers can benefit from those efforts.  

Let me make two key point about fiscal 2007. First, I'm very pleased that we continue to expect full-year double-digit revenue growth. Overall, this is in line with what we told you last quarter, although we are making some adjustments to the mix of revenue.  

Second, excluding legal charges and tax benefits in the prior year, we expect earnings per share will also grow double digits and faster than revenue. This growth is even after we launch the major products and continue to invest in future growth opportunities in all our divisions.  

With those high-level themes for the quarter and for the full year of 2007, I'm going to the turn the call over to Colleen now for some more details on our second-quarter performance.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. As Chris mentioned, Q2 was a strong quarter overall, contributing to a good first half of the fiscal year. During the quarter, revenue, operating income and EPS exceeded the high end of our guidance, and we continued executing on our product cycle, with the business launch of Windows Vista, the 2007 Microsoft Office system and Exchange Server 2007.  

Let me provide you with details on our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss top-line financial and business momentum points and then follow up with revenue performance for each of the business units. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.  

Revenue for the quarter was $12.5 billion, up 6%. Growth for the quarter was impacted by $1.6 billion in revenue deferrals out of Q2 that will be recognized in Q3, primarily related to the Windows and Office Technology Guarantee Program. The deferral amount is up slightly from the $1.5 million that we previously guided, driven by strength in the PC market. Adjusting for these revenue deferrals, revenue growth would have been 20%.  

Revenue growth for the quarter was driven by a 76% increase in Entertainment and Devices and robust growth in our core businesses of Client, Server and Tools, and the Microsoft Business Division, which grew a combined 11% after adjusting for the deferrals, primarily from [Detector NTs].  

Healthy growth in the hardware market was a key contributor to the results for the quarter. We estimate the PC market grew faster than we expected at 8% to 10% during the quarter. This growth is particularly strong considering the upcoming consumer launch of Windows Vista, illustrating the success of our Tech Guarantee Program, as well as the continuing value proposition of Windows XP.  

Consumer PC shipment growth once again outpaced business shipments, driven by a strong holiday sales season. From a form factor perspective, growth in notebook PC shipments continues to outpace that of desktops. PC unit growth continues to be led by the emerging markets. Asia, excluding Japan, and Latin America maintained double-digit growth rates, while the remaining regions grew at single digits.  

Server hardware shipment growth remained consistent with our full-year estimate of 10% to 12%. Our mix of products billings was approximately 30% from OEM, 25% from multi-year licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses.  

Relative to prior year, our billing mix continues to shift to our other businesses, driven by the increasing revenue from our Entertainment and Devices divisions.  

We had a very strong quarter overall from a volume licensing perspective, with broad-based strength across our customer segments and regions, which drove growth in enterprise agreements, as well as select and open annuity licenses. We estimate that EA renewal rates were at the high end of our historical range of 56% to 75%. In addition, select and open license-only growth accelerated in December after the business launches of Windows Vista, the 2007 Office system and Exchange Server 2007.  

Our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter a bit higher than we expected at $11.9 billion, including the $1.7 billion of deferrals primarily related to the technology guarantee. Excluding this impact, the unearned balance would have grown 15% over the prior year and still have been up sequentially. Our contracted, not-billed balance at the end of December was also sequentially higher and now exceeds $9.5 billion.  

If you consider our reported revenue and changes in the unearned and contracted, not-billed balances, our bookings growth exceeded 20% for the quarter.  

Before I get into the revenue details for each business group, let me point out that changes in foreign exchange rates added about 1 point to our overall revenue growth rate.  

Client revenue of $2.6 billion, a decline of 25%, includes the impact of $1.1 billion of revenue deferrals, primarily related to the tech guarantee. Adjusting for this impact, Client revenue would have been $3.7 billion, up 9%, driven by growth in the OEM business.  

OEM revenue increased 8%, excluding the tech guarantee, due to 10% growth in OEM license units. OEM revenue grew at a slightly slower pace than license units, due to the continued increased volume in emerging markets and the shift in channel mix towards larger OEMs, partially offset by the impact from the increase in premium mix.  

OEM premium mix increased 18 percentage points from the prior year to 67%. Consistent with the relative strength in the consumer segment, especially during holiday, and deferred by the Technology Guarantee Program, we saw a shift within the premium mix itself. Specifically, the growth in the premium mix was a results of consumers purchasing Windows XP Media Center, driven by the upgrade pricing structure offered under the Technology Guarantee Program.  

So while Windows XP Professional grew year on year, its portion of the premium mix declined a couple of percentage points. While we are delighted to see the increasing trend of consumers recognizing the value offered in premium Windows, we want to point out to you that in the U.S., Windows XP Professional generates over five times the pricing uplift over Windows XP Home than does Windows XP Media Center.  

Client commercial and retail licensing grew 13%, primarily from sales of Windows Vista into the retail channel, and our partners began readying for Windows Vista general availability.  

Our commercial business remained healthy, fueled by growth in multi-year contract agreements. The Client business made significant progress on the product front this quarter with the business launch of Windows Vista, the most significant operating system releases since Windows 95.  

Server and Tools delivered double-digit revenue growth for the 18th consecutive quarter. Its 17% revenue growth was driven by broad adoption of our Server and Tools product line, particularly SQL Server, which had another quarter of over 30% revenue growth.  

Revenue for our Online Services Business grew 5% to $624 million, driven by an increase in advertising revenue of 20%, partially offset by an expected decline in access revenue. Healthy growth in display, coupled with a modest increase in search, drove the rise in the total advertising revenue.  

Increasing search queries contributed to search revenue growth on a year-over-year basis for the first time since we began our transition to adCenter in the U.S. last year.  

Microsoft Business Division revenue was $3.5 billion or $4 billion after adjusting for the $500 million tech guarantee and preshipment deferral. Growth was driven by the strength of our annuity business and earlier than expected uptake in our license-only business following the business launches of the 2007 Office system and Exchange Server 2007. The Dynamics business continued its strong performance in Q2, as demonstrated by a 19% increase in customer billings.  

Lastly, Entertainment and Devices growth of 76% for the quarter was driven by Xbox 360 sales. We have now sold 10.4 million consoles life to date. And according to [NTB], consumers in the U.S. purchased more Xbox 360s than both the Wii and PlayStation 3 combined during the month of December.  

Software attach rates remain at record levels in the U.S., bolstered by the broad success of Gears of War, which sold over 2.7 million copies in its first eight weeks in market. Our mobile and embedded device business also performed well, selling over 3 million licenses for Windows mobile phone-enabled devices, up over 90% year over year. During the quarter, we launched the Zune digital media player in the United States, which furthers our strategy of connected entertainment.  

Now for the rest of the income statement. Positive revenue increase 62%, due primarily to an increase in Xbox 360 sales. As a result, gross margin relative to the prior year was down about 10 percentage points, a slightly larger drop than the guidance we provided in October. This was primarily driven by stronger than expected sales of Xbox 360, as well as an extension of the Xbox 360 warranty from 90 days to one year in the U.S. and Canada.  

Q2 operating expenses other than cost of revenue increased $509 million or 10%. This was a little higher than expected, due to the timing of certain spending, particularly for sales and marketing programs.  

Operating income was $3.5 billion. Adjusting for the tech guarantee deferrals, operating income would have been $5.1 billion, up 10% from the prior year, driven by strength in our core businesses. Investment income and other totaled $333 million.  

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31%, up from 29% last year. This year-over-year rate increase was impacted by a $108 million tax benefit in the prior year. During the quarter, we repurchased 205 million shares or $6 billion worth of our stock and paid $980 million in dividends to shareholders.  

Diluted shares outstanding were 9.9 billion, down 7% from the prior year, as a result of execution on our share repurchase program. Our diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were impacted by the issuance of 113 million shares in December related to options exercised by JPMorgan for the employee stock option transfer program completed in December 2003. This settlement marks the final expiration of all remaining options under its program.  

Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.26, which includes approximately an $0.11 per share deferral, primarily from tech guarantees.  

So in summary, Q2 delivered strong results across the board. Revenue results for all of the segments met or exceeded the top end of our guidance and translated to outperformance for both operating income and EPS. Additionally, the quarter marked the business launch of our flagship products.  

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our expectations for Q3 and the remainder of fiscal 2007.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Colleen. Before we get into the specific guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions. Our fiscal 2007 forecast assumes no major changes in the economic conditions from where we exited the first half, and we're not forecasting any significant impacts from foreign exchange rate movements.  

We expect PC unit growth to be 8% to 10% for the fiscal year, in line with the guidance we gave you last quarter, and between 9% to 11% for the third quarter. We continue to estimate the PC unit growth rates will be higher in the consumer segment than in the business segment, and higher in the emerging markets than in mature markets. On the server hardware front, we remain comfortable with our estimate for total market price of 10% to 12% for the year.  

Now let me get into our detailed guidance. For the full year, we expect our revenues to come in at $50.2 to $50.7 billion, growing 13% to 14%. We are narrowing our revenue range to reflect how we finished the second quarter, as well as to incorporate changes to the mix of revenue. Our growth is driven by broad-based revenue growth across our five segments, with each of our core businesses growing double digits.  

For the third quarter, we expect revenue of $13.7 to $14.0 billion, which represents growth of 26% to 28% year over year. Our third quarter will benefit from recognition of the $1.7 billion of revenue that we deferred out of the first half, $45 million from Q1 and $1.64 billion from Q2, primarily associated with our Technology Guarantee Program.  

Before these impacts, third-quarter revenue guidance would have been $12 to $12.3 billion, which would have represented growth of 10% to 13%. There's clearly no impact to the full year, as we have discussed.  

With that, revenue guidance in our five business units is as follows -- for Client, we have increased our full-year growth forecast to 11% to 12%, up from the 9% to 10% we gave you in October, and this has been driven by a higher premium mix in our OEMs revenue and a faster transition to Windows Vista.  

We expect third-quarter growth to be 54% to 56%, although our third-quarter guidance includes the recognition of approximately $1.2 billion in revenue primarily associated with our Tech Guarantee Program. Before that deferral, third-quarter revenue would be growing 16% to 18%.  

Growth accelerates in the second half of the year for the commercial and retail portion of the Client segment, beginning in quarter three, driven by broad availability of Windows Vista. Client OEM revenue should grow roughly in line with the PC hardware market for the year.  

We are increasing our expectation for premium mix in the second half of the year and we now expect our full-year premium mix to be about 60%. The increase is driven by mix assumptions for our consumer premium products such as Windows XP Media Center and Windows Vista Home Premium.  

As Colleen mentioned earlier, we have received modest revenue [uptick] from our consumer premium SKUs versus what we get on Windows XP Pro or Windows Vista Business.  

Server and Tools revenue should grow 16% to 17% for the year from continued growth of SQL Server, development tools and our enterprise services. Revenue for the third quarter should also be up 16% to 17%.  

We forecast revenue in the Online Services Business to grow between 3% and 8% for the year and 4% to 10% in quarter three. Although we're still forecasting growth in search queries and page views, our plans now include a more measured rate of growth for the balance of the year. Our full-year forecast anticipates total advertising growth in the mid-teens.  

We expect this to be driven in particular by our display business, which is growing at a healthy rate, as we see good page growth in our key properties. We continue to have high aspirations to grow this business and we will continue to invest in the business during the second half.  

Microsoft Business Division revenue should increased 10% to 11% for the year, an increase of 2 percentage points from the guidance we gave you last quarter on increased business uptake of the 2007 Office system.  

Q3 revenue should grow 27% to 28%. Our third-quarter revenue guidance includes the recognition of approximately $0.5 billion of revenue deferred from the second quarter related to our Tech Guarantee Program and 2007 Office system preshipments into the channel. If you were to adjust to that impact, revenue growth for quarter three would have been 13% into 14%. We are encouraged by the favorable customer response we saw in December surrounding our new products.  

In the Entertainment and Devices division, we are pleased with what we have been able to accomplish in the past year, including achieving our goal of having sold over 10 million consoles life to date, outselling competitive next-generation consoles during this holiday season, achieving record software attach rates and reaching 5 million Xbox Live members.  

With that strong momentum, we are making tradeoffs and choices in managing the Xbox business to achieve our targeted profitability in fiscal year '08. In the near term, this means we will optimize for profitability. We believe this puts us in a strong market and financial position as we go into fiscal 2008, a year that will feature a number of catalysts, highlighted by the strongest first- and third-party game lineup we've ever had.  

As we look at historical seasonality, pricing and inventory levels, we're taking a more cautious view of the market, and our half two revenue and console guidance reflects that. We are now forecasting full-year revenue growth of 26% to 31% and a decline of 15% to 25% for the third quarter and expect to exit June having sold about 12 million Xbox 360 units since launch, down from our previous guidance of 13 to 15 million.  

That reduction in console units also results in a reduction in revenue related to attached software, accessories and Live.  

Moving on to operating income, for the year we expect to generate between $19.3 and $19.7 billion of operating income, representing growth of 10% to 12%, excluding legal charges taken in fiscal 2006. This is an increase of approximately $200 million on both the low end and high end -- this is what we told you in October -- now representing double-digit growth even at the low end. We are flowing through some of the revenue upside and keeping full-year spending in line with what we had in October.  

For the third quarter, we expect operating income to be between $6.1 and $6.3 billion, including the impact from revenue recognized from our tech guarantee and preshipments. Excluding this impact, operating income for the third quarter would be between $4.4 and $4.6 billion.  

Third-quarter operating income includes some costs deferred from the second quarter, as well as operating costs in preparation for the launches of Windows Vista and the 2007 Office system.  

Cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue for the full year should increase by 1 percentage point over the last year, in line with what we said in October. We continue to estimate a full-year tax rate of 31%, consistent with what we saw in the second quarter and with our October guidance.  

The diluted earnings per share, we're bringing up the range for the year by $0.02 at the low end and $0.01 at the high end due to higher revenue in our core businesses of Client, Server and Tools, and MBD. This translates into a full-year expected range of $1.45 to $1.47 and $0.45 to $0.46 for the third quarter. The third-quarter earnings per share includes approximately $0.12 per share associated with the impact of the Tech Guarantee Program.  

From a balance sheet perspective, we expect unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2007 up 6% to 8% due to our better performance in Q2. Contracted, not-billed should also finished 2007 up from where we exited fiscal 2006.  

When thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from quarter two to quarter three, we expect a decline of slightly greater than $1.7 billion of revenue we'll recognize associate with our Tech Guarantee Programs and presales. This decline would be consistent with normal seasonality. For our full-year unearned revenue guidance, we're modeling a moderation in the recent annuity mix of our billings as both the 2007 Office system and Windows Vista will be available to customers in the second half of the year.  

I'll remind you, though, as you think about guidance for the rest of the year, we still face the risks and opportunities I have highlighted in our previous two earnings calls -- for example, competitive, legal, execution and general market risks, as well as PC and server hardware growth rates, customer acceptance of our products, and the costs to remain competitive, such as those to acquire and serve customers in our online businesses.  

Also, Our emerging businesses are harder to forecast when compared to our mature businesses, so as they continue to become a larger part of our overall financial mix, they may contribute to increased volatility in our quarterly performance.  

Before moving to questions and answers, I would like to make a couple of quick comments. I committed to you at our financial analyst meeting last year to provide you with a more continuous flow of information throughout the year, and that would include a new communication from Steve and me.  

We will do that on February 15 in New York City, and for those of you unable to join us for this, we will make available a live webcast as well as an on-demand replay of the presentation.  

The intention of this presentation is for Steve and me to meet with investors and provide an update on our strategic direction after completing our internal strategy meetings. Although we may generally discuss revenue and spending trend levels, we will not give any detailed financial information. As in past years, we will provide our first preliminary review of fiscal 2008 guidance on our third-quarter earnings call in April.  

Since the financial analyst meeting in July, we have also had executives out talking with the financial community in a variety of forums at a pace over once a month outside of our quiet periods. Looking forward into half two, we will double that frequency. In general, we have been trying to give you more overall exposure to all of our senior executives. We look forward to seeing you.  

With that, I'll hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started with some of your questions. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and please limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini, UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I was wondering if you could give us your assumptions for higher price skew mix in the March quarter, because if we adjust for the technology reversal that you are going to have in March, then it appears that you're looking for Client segment growth of roughly 20% versus a PC shipment forecast that is about half that.  

And then the second question I would have is that for Service Pack 1, it typically comes out one year after the release of Windows, if we look back historically. I'm just wondering if we should be thinking less than that now, given your desire to shorten Windows development cycles.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of the quarter three, if I work through the math of taking you from the shipment units that we see down to the revenue, that will probably help you the most. And then I will talk about service packs.  

As I mentioned in the formal remarks, we expect shipments in the third quarter to be 9% to 11%. We are assuming that our units that we sell will be at the top end of that range, 11%, so we'll still have a modest improvement in piracy.  

The main factor that is going to drive the revenue is going to be on the commercial and retail. So we will, again, as I mentioned in the prepared remarks, we will certainly get a significant impact from that element of the revenue that is commercial and retail. And as you'll recall, that's only about 20% of the total revenue. But we're expecting it to grow significantly relative to the previous year, obviously, with Vista being available for the first time.  

So those will be in essence the main drivers. and you are right, that will get us up to revenue growth that is close to 20% for the quarter.  

HEATHER BELLINI: And then on the service pack side?  

COLLEEN HEALY: On the service pack side, we have seen a lot of the same rumors that you probably have in the press in terms of dates. The Company hasn't put a date out there. So it makes sense to see how the product does out of the gate, continue to get feedback. And we don't have an SP date to share with you today.  

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I was wondering if we could turn to the Online Services Business. It looks like the display ads are doing fine, but search is slipping share pretty consistently in all the independent numbers. You have now lowered guidance -- it looks like while you might be growing search a little bit you are certainly going to continue to slip share if you stick to this guidance. How should we be looking at this business? How can we evaluate progress here? When can we expect a turnaround?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: You are right, Charlie, to break the business down into its different bits. Clearly, the overall results are impacted by access decline. But if I take that out and look at the advertising revenue overall, it grew 20% for the quarter, which is -- we're happy with. If you break that down into display and search, clearly there is a better story on the display side, and we are growing broadly in line market. So I'd like to think we can put a tick in that box and we are comfortable with the progress we are making there.  

On the search side, you are correct that we lost market share certainly relative to the independent assessment during the quarter, and clearly not happy with that. We continue to take a long-term view of this business. We continue to invest in it, and we are making progress in the short term on some of the factors that we think are important -- getting advertisers onto our adCenter platform, turning the corner in terms of revenue on a quarter-by-quarter basis since we went off Overture.  

The second quarter is the first quarter where we are seeing consecutive growth in revenue. And we still expect to get revenue per search equal to where we were a year ago by the end of this year.  

So we are making progress in some of the underlying factors and we are continuing to invest. But you should and we should expect to see more progress in the long term on the search side.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: Does there come a time when you can share some of those metrics you say are doing better internally? Because we don't see them out here.  

COLLEEN HEALY: From a communications standpoint, Charlie, what we've really set up is at our financial analyst, meeting there are some specific metrics that we told you you will hear, really, from Kevin Johnson -- they have been in that sort of breadth of usage, depth of usage and how we're doing on monetization, really sort of similar to our competitors in terms of providing some of those underlying drivers quarter by quarter.  

It is not something that we are doing -- doesn't necessarily make sense from a competitive standpoint. There tends to also be pretty decent third-party information out there. But you will continue to hear from the business leaders, as well as Chris, directly at FAM on those metrics that we outlined at the financial analyst meeting last year, and we'll update you again on at least a yearly basis.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Charlie, the other thing I would say is once we lap coming off Overture, you'll be able to do a much better comparison because then we are comparing ourselves to ourselves. So in two or three quarters I think the comparables year on year will be much easier for you to make an assessment of progress. And also, as the impact of the access business decline becomes much less significant, then you are really looking at the underlying business growth.  

So it won't necessarily get to the level of granularity that I know you have consistently been looking for. But I think it will become, hopefully, more useful to you.  

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.  

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just to clarify the Xbox commentary, Chris, is that more of an inventory flush-out that causes you to lower the guidance for the rest of the year? Or maybe I didn't get that high clarity.  

And also, if you could comment on the premium mix -- if you experience better mix shift to the higher-end versions of Vista after the launch, will that cause the Company to raise its guidance for the Client business? Or is that already factored into the guidance?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the Xbox side, certainly the healthy inventory that we have seen, which is partially a result of the very good sales that we saw into the channel in the second quarter last year, is one of the factors behind what we're looking for in the second half. Also, to be [on a standing] to think about fiscal year '08 and what's the best approach to take for fiscal year '08 in terms of profitability is. So we're just making some strategic decisions around what we might do there, too. So it is those two things, broadly speaking, which are the reasons why we are giving the guidance we are.  

On the premium side, we have embedded inside the guidance that we have given you the premium mix that we now have of 60%. So that is reflected in the guidance for fiscal year '07. Clearly, as Colleen mentioned, inside that 60% there is a mix within a mix, so depending on how that came out between the consumer SKUs and the business SKUs, if that changed, the 60% could still be the case, but we could have a different revenue number there. But at this stage, based on our expectation of the premium mix and how the business and consumer elements of that were made up, that is reflected in the guidance.  

KASH RANGAN: So you are not assuming any change in the business versus the consumer within the premium as it relates to '07 guidance just as yet? You're basically using the same experience as with the XP to make your forecast, right?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It is not the same experience as XP. It is the same experience, if you like, as what we forecast at the beginning of the year.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Chris, the launch of Vista, Office 2007 and Exchange Server coming up at the end of this month -- if I want to be a little more optimistic about the revenues in Q3, I guess I'm just curious, you've given a little bit of precise guidance there and I'm just not sure how predictable the demand is going to be. So I guess I'd just ask you to talk to that issue in terms of your ability to forecast for Q3, given the launch of some pretty major new products, and whether you might think it reasonable to think that we could see more upside in Q3.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we've talked about before -- I think this is different from if you go back a decade, obviously, to a Windows 95 impact. We certainly think it would be positive, but more gradual as it rolls out into the marketplace.  

In terms of the impact on overall sales, we were heartened by the quarter two results. We are certainly heartened by the fact that the tech guarantee appeared to avoid any stalling of sales in that quarter. But we are sticking with the external numbers that you have seen. And that is flowing through in turn to our second half. Could there be some upside to that? Yes, clearly there is, but obviously there could be some downside as well. I talk about that on the risks and opportunities side.  

If the product was extremely well received and if there was very strong demand at, say, the top end of our expectations for the second half, clearly that would flow through. At this stage, it is launching next week, and we're taking, I guess, what we consider to be just an appropriately conservative view of the second half.  

RICK SHERLUND: And SQL Server up 30%-plus again this quarter against a launch last year of the new product, I'm a little surprised that we are continuing to see 30%-plus growth from that product, particularly in a tougher comparison. Any light you can shed on what is happening or why we're seeing such robust growth there?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we were positively surprised on the upside there, too. The only thing I would say is that the price increase went in during the quarter. So you've got some part of the quarter which is price impacted, if you like. So it will definitely become a much harder comparable in the second half. But in terms of underlying sales, it was a good quarter, you are right.  

RICK SHERLUND: And Chris, on the Xbox, just finally, I hear what you're saying, you want to manage inventory levels down, it sounds like, over the next couple of quarters. And certainly if there were a price reduction coming, you would want to minimize your channel inventory levels before you would do something like that. Am I understanding correctly that what you're trying to do is manage inventory levels down for Xbox in the second fiscal half?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I wouldn't put it in those terms. We are looking at the numbers that we sell into the channel based on where we see the inventory at the start of the year and the patterns of sales that we think will come up. So the net result of that may well be that we see inventory come down. But if you like, it is an outcome, not a management of that.  

RICK SHERLUND: You're not seeing any change in the competitive environment; there's no change in your assumptions of market share?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No.  

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, JPMorgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: You made a number of comments about the ASP and premium mix expectation around Windows. I was hoping maybe you could talk a little bit about what you are expecting within Office. Obviously, you have got a number of new SKUs with Small Business Pro, Ultimate -- what does the guidance imply in terms of ASP improvement? And what do you think is reasonable for us to expect?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, to the extent -- obviously, we're just giving guidance for the balance of this year. It is not a huge impact. There is clearly revenue coming through from our unearned side from the first half which is not significantly impacted by that. And so there is not a huge impact in the whole of fiscal year '07.  

Having said that, we did see renewal rates, as Colleen mentioned, at the top end of our 66% to 75% historic range. One of the reasons for that we feel was people anticipating the Office and therefore being attracted to renew. And so that to some extent flows through in the second half. But in terms of an overall mix shift, it's not a significant component of the fiscal year '07 revenue.  

ADAM HOLT: And if I could just ask a follow-up on the strength in unearned, what I was particularly taken with was the Client side. If you net out undelivered, it looks like you had better than 30% growth in Client unearned. Could you talk about what you are seeing in terms of enterprise renewal activity, reattachment to enterprise licensing, and maybe refresh us on your thinking in terms of what you're expecting for enterprise adoption as we get further into the cycle.  

COLLEEN HEALY: On the annuity side, as with Office, a bit with Client, as you're talking, we have seen really nice renewal rates. They have been really trending at the high end. In particular, to your point, when you look at the various parts going into unearned, we are seeing a bit of an uptick in terms of customers adding Windows under their enterprise agreements. We think the value proposition from the enterprise view is compelling. And of course, you can only get if you are an annuity customer. So that looks promising. But really, I would say at this point, a bit too early to get ahead of ourselves. But we have been noticing that a bit as well.  

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Citigroup.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Chris, just a follow-up to Adam's question on Office -- the reviews have been very solid, and just wondering if you could help us understand what the rationale is -- why pricing can't go up in the face of that, considering this is a pretty big release. And if you look at the server business, you have raised pricing and it doesn't feel like there has been any pushback.  

COLLEEN HEALY: What we could say on the pricing side, actually, is certainly in terms of the upper-end views, we have put more value into those offerings. For example, on the Professional Plus offering, which adds the Communicator IM Client and other things. Pricing went up a bit, call it 5% or so, on the enterprise SKU, which has Pro and Window and [Ingru]. We did take the opportunity to add more value there. We expect to see some pricing uplift there.  

So really what you're seeing, whether it is SQL or Office or some of the other products you mentioned, it is really more SKU differentiation that you heard from us really at financial analyst meeting a year ago, and we are really continuing to look for opportunities to provide value in higher-end SKUs and price accordingly.  

But again, we don't want to get too far ahead of ourselves in terms of adoption rates. And keep in mind that a lot of these products, in particular on Office, because there's already quite a bit going into annuity, you actually recognize that over a period of time on the P&L.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: And from our perspective, at a particular price point, the concept of increasingly trying to add value at that price point over time through software development is just a good philosophy. So we certainly don't think just because we are adding functionality that we should necessarily increase price.  

And in terms of our renewals now in the post-Vista and Office era, the ability to actually offer new products and hence look at enterprise agreements that are much broader, much more of an infrastructure-based agreements rather than desktop agreements, is more of the potential.  

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Credit Suisse.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I have a question on spending. You had indicated that Q2 was a little lower than expected in marketing program spend. Server and Tools, I think, did $1 billion in op income. How do you think about Q2 in terms of its impact on spending in the back half of the year and even longer term as you look to invest in places like Online Services and then even potentially in Entertainment and Devices?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We have kept, again, [all of our] expenses very much in the context of the year. And we have kept our expense number for the year the same as where it has been, essentially, all year. And I am increasingly happy with the discipline we are showing there for the purposes of the year.  

In terms of the quarter-by-quarter movement, we certainly give the people flexibility on a quarterly basis to spend on programs as is necessary. So we can see swings in particular in some of the marketing spends with some of the launches on a quarter-by-quarter basis. So I wouldn't get too concerned one way or the other. In this case, it's a positive trend on the expenses year to date. I tend to focus on what our expectations are for the year. And at this stage, they haven't changed.  

JASON MAYNARD: And maybe just help me reconcile -- operating cash flow, I think, came in just a touch above $2 billion, which was a little lower than I think most of us were modeling. Can you maybe help us understand the puts and takes on the cash flow number?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: To some extent, there was obviously inventory builds. We had a relatively high number of Xbox sales. And so that does tend to impact our cash flow for the quarter. There could well be, depending on the line you're looking at, the big billings area. So a big unearned can influence the cash flow aspect of it as well. But there was no significant issues. Buyback was relatively high, but we also had the JPMorgan options exercised. So nothing unusual there. I would describe it as a reasonably predictable cash flow quarter, albeit with some big movements inside it.  

COLLEEN HEALY: We have time for a just a few more questions.  

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.  

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Real quickly, Chris, maybe as a follow-up to the last question, when you look at the leverage you showed this quarter and a little bit of lack of spending, in the back half of the year, where do you see additional leverage coming from? What levers do you think that are there that you could see to execute to deliver upside?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well it's more likely to be on the revenue side. Clearly, we have the opportunity to cut expenses. And that's some of the decisions that we can make. We could, for example, decide to cut back on marketing for the second half of the year. I don't think we will, but we could do.  

The upside potential really comes more on the revenue side. And that really comes across the board. So clearly, in our Client and Office division, as Rick's question alluded to earlier, with a launch there's a big amount of variability around that. So there could be some upside there. But we've guided to what we think is probably the appropriate level.  

In the Online Services area, there's probably not such a big swing factor there in the overall context of the Company, but clearly our ability to continue to generate display advertising and change market share in search has some impact.  

And then on the Entertainment and Devices, really it's to a large extent on the revenue side. It is an Xbox story. Again, we have taken what we think is the most likely scenario there. Given the relative seasonality, the June half is a lot less significant than the December half in the Xbox business. So I don't see a high degree of variability. But again, that would be something that would be a big factor.  

Each of the businesses has their own dynamic. But if you're looking for the things that could swing, it is really in our core businesses with those big launches.  

ROBERT BREZA: Thank you, nice quarter.  

OPERATOR: Tim Klasell, Thomas Weisel Partners.  

TIM KLASELL, ANALYST, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: First question -- with going to Vista, you've mentioned in the past that you won't be having to hold back the 5% to 25% going into deferred. That should be about $150 to $250 million a quarter as that rolls off the next three years. Is that the right way to think about that, and is that still the way you plan on doing it?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We had quite an extensive discussion last quarter about that. And I think we [shared] that we will give you guidance for fiscal year '08 in our next quarter in terms of exactly how much we expect from that. We want to be transparent about how much is the underlying business, how much is simply just the different revenue recognition. It will be order of magnitude in the sort of numbers you're talking about, but it is too early at this stage to give actual numbers out.  

TIM KLASELL: And then one final question -- Longhorn, I guess look out a little further -- how is that tracking and are you still planning on end-of-the-year release?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we are.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Longhorn is tracking. We are expecting really to RTM second half of calendar year 2007. And I think you'll hear more from us over time on that.  

We have time for one last question, please.  

OPERATOR: John McPeake, Prudential.  

JOHN MCPEAKE, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Questions about online offering and Dynamics, back to the undelivered elements question, if that was going to be an offset. Could you talk a little bit about how Codename Titan, the online product, is going to roll out and the timing there? And then I just have a quick follow-up.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: You are little faint there, sorry. But I picked up your question -- in terms of Titan, have we gone public on timing for that?  

COLLEEN HEALY: We have.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: That's the summer this year. So we are on track for that, as we talked about. So that will be in the summer, in six months, if you like.  

JOHN MCPEAKE: And then does Xbox inventory drawdown have anything to do with potentially a new version of Xbox coming out first fiscal half?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No. That was an easy one.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks a lot, John. Thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business January 25, 2008. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 800-873-5569, or for international calls, dial 203-369-3995. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business February 2, 2007. Thanks again for joining us today.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070201e31p001xk
  


 HD
 Q1  2007 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,898 words
   PD
26 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Microsoft 2007 fiscal year first quarter conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. Please be advised that this conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. I will then provide detail around our first-quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and the second quarter of fiscal 2007. After that, we'll take your questions.  

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance, and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations Website, at  www.Microsoft.com/MSFT .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live Webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations Website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on October 26, 2007.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this conference call, and in the risk factors section of our 10-Q, our 2006 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, SVP AND CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased to be with you today to share our first-quarter results and talk with you about how we see the rest of fiscal 2007 shaping up.  

Looking back over the first quarter, I would characterize it as a very good start to what we are expecting to be an excellent year. All aspects of our financial performance came in at or above the high-end of our guidance. Our product groups made considerable progress executing on major product milestones towards their launches in quarter two and beyond, and we continued our progress on returning cash to shareholders, including through our tender offer.  

Looking back to our first-quarter financial performance, revenue came in at the high-end of our guidance, growing 11%, which represents over $1 billion in absolute revenue growth. Server and Tools and our Entertainment and Devices division were particularly strong in the quarter, benefiting from continued customer demand for SQL Server and the Xbox 360.  

Operating income benefited from both the strong revenue growth, as well as lower spending, primarily on marketing programs, which we shifted out of quarter one and into the rest of the year.  

Combining that with increased investment income, as we increased liquidity in preparation for the tender offer, our earnings per share results were excellent.  

This was an important quarter for our business groups, as we made significant progress towards a number of milestones leading up to our product launches in coming months. During the quarter we rolled out Release Candidate 1 of Windows Vista, a Beta 2 technical refresh of the 2007 Office system, a Beta of Exchange Server 2007, and announced the upcoming launch of Zune. To date, these trial versions have been made available to about 5 million Windows Vista users and over 3 million 2007 Office System users. We've been receiving encouraging feedback from partners and customers who are using the betas, which are the most widely-tested releases in the history of these products.  

We also continue to be active on the acquisition front, averaging more than one a month. This quarter the bulk of our acquisitions were companies that augment the offerings of our Server and Tools business. Our acquisitions focused on the areas of systems recovery and data protection, virtualization, and security.  

Finally, on the capital structure front, we continue to make steady progress. We finished our prior $30 billion repurchase plan, as we shared with you on the last earnings call, announced a new authorization that runs through July 2011, completed our tender offer, made additional share repurchases outside of the tender offer in the quarter, and increased our quarterly dividend.  

Moving now to the full fiscal year, 2007 is shaping up well. We will be delivering the second major installment on our multiyear product cycle, helping to fuel revenue growth for the Company. So, let me make a couple of key points about fiscal 2007.  

First, we continue to expect full-year double-digit revenue growth. In terms of quarterly trends, revenue growth will be impacted by the deferral of approximately $1.5 billion of Client and MBD revenue out of the second quarter and into our third quarter, as a result of the recently-announced technology guarantee programs. As we discussed on the call hosted by Frank and Scott earlier in the week, this movement has no impact on our full-year numbers.  

Second, growth in operating income in the first half of the year will be impacted by the increasing mix of Xbox 360 console revenue and related costs, coupled with significant investments to support the launches of our flagship products, and the accounting impact of the technology guarantee programs. This trend should reverse in the second half of the year, when we expect operating income will grow considerably faster than revenue.  

Finally, excluding legal charges in the prior year, we will grow earnings per share 13 to 15% while launching major products and continuing to invest in the future growth opportunities in all our business divisions.  

I'm particularly happy that we've been able to broadly maintain our full-year earnings per share guidance. Better business performance and higher investment income have helped offset the impact of lower share repurchases in our tender offer and the higher effective tax rate.  

With those high-level things for the quarter and the full year 2007, I'm going to turn the call over to Colleen now for more details on our first-quarter performance.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. In the interest of providing more time for your questions, I'm going to keep my remarks regarding the fiscal first quarter brief.  

Overall, we are off to a good start in what is a significant year for the Company. Specifically during the quarter, we delivered revenue, operating income and EPS growth at or above the high-end of our guidance. We made significant progress on development and launch readiness for key products in the pipeline, including Windows Vista, Office 2007, Exchange Server 2007, and Zune. And we returned $7.9 million in capital to shareholders in the form of dividends and share repurchases.  

I will now provide more detail on our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss topline financial and business momentum points, and then follow-up with revenue performance for each of the business units. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.  

Revenue growth for the quarter was 11%, driven primarily by the Business group's significant product launches over the past 12 months, as our new product cycles have been well received by customers. Specifically, Entertainment and Devices and Server and Tools accounted for over 70% of the absolute revenue growth in the quarter.  

Healthy PC and server hardware market growth were also key contributors to our results. The PC market grew 8 to 10% in the quarter, driven by a good back-to-school sales season. Consumer growth outpaced that of business, consistent with the trend of the past several quarters. Geographically, we saw double-digit growth in Asia and Latin America, with the remaining regions growing at single digits.  

Server hardware shipment growth was consistent with our full-year estimate of 10 to 12%. Our mix of product billings was approximately 40% from OEMs, 25% from multiyear licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. These results were generally consistent with the prior year.  

We had a good quarter from a volume licensing perspective and saw strong performance in our small and medium business channel in particular.  

In terms of enterprise agreements, we highlighted in July that there was a relatively small amount of EA contract renewal -- contract value up for renewal in the first quarter, which would impact EA [going through]. Of the business that was up for renewal, we continued to see EA renewal rates within our historical range of 66 to 75%. Non-annuity growth was relatively weak, as expected, in front of major product launches later this year.  

Our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter at $10.1 billion, up 15% over the prior year and slightly stronger than we expected. The sequential decline in the unearned balance in the first quarter was driven by the absolute size of our fiscal Q4 annuity billings relative to Q1, as well as the small amount of EA contract value up for renewal, as previously discussed.  

Our contracted not-billed balance at the end of September was sequentially lower, but continues to exceed $9 billion.  

Now I'd like to provide revenue highlights by business segment. Starting with Client, revenue for the quarter grew 4% to $3.3 billion. OEM revenue growth of 4% resulted from 11% growth in license units. The 7 percentage point difference between OEM license unit growth and revenue growth was caused primarily by increasing volumes in emerging markets, the relative strength of the consumer segment of the market, and a $45 million revenue deferral related to the Express upgrade to Windows Vista program.  

We were particularly pleased with the continued adoption of Windows Media Center Edition, which represented over 15% of OEM license mix in the quarter, and has now sold over 20 million units [live to date].  

Client, commercial and retail licensing product growth of 5% was primarily driven by growth in multiyear contract agreements in front of the Windows Vista launch. We made significant progress on Windows Vista development during the quarter, as evidenced by the recent availability of the second release candidate. We made pre-release versions of Windows Vista available to over 5 million customers worldwide.  

Server and Tools revenue growth of 17% represents the 17th consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth for the segment. Results for the quarter were driven by broad adoption of our Server and Tools product line, particularly SQL Server, which grew over 30%, Windows Server and Digital Studio.  

During the quarter we completed the acquisition of Softricity, Whale Communications, Winternals Software and DesktopStandard, which will strengthen our growing Server business around virtualization, enterprise security and management.  

Revenue for our Online Service business was down 4% to $539 million, with 5% advertising growth and a 30% decline in access revenue. Increased advertising revenue was driven by growth in display advertising, offset by lower search revenues.  

With respect to search, although our search queries grew, our search pricing was below the prior-year level as a result of the transition to our new adCenter platform, which began in earnest during the December quarter. We experienced sequential growth in revenue per search as we increased the number of advertisers on our platform.  

During the quarter we also released a number of new or updated Internet services, including live.com, Live Search, Live Local Search and Live Spaces.  

Microsoft Business division revenue grew 4% to $3.4 billion, a good result in front of the upcoming product launches of Office 2007 and Exchange Server 2007, and in line with our expectations entering the quarter.  

As with Windows Vista, we also made considerable progress on the development of the 2007 Office system. We released the Beta 2 technical refresh of the product during the quarter and over 3 million customers have pre-release versions of Office 2007. Business momentum and customer interest for both Office 2007 and Exchange Server 2007 remains strong, leading us to the launches later this year.  

We also delivered strong performance in our Dynamic business in the first quarter, with customer billings growth of 19%.  

Lastly, Entertainment and Devices growth of 70% for the quarter was driven by strong performance across all of its businesses. Interactive gaming revenue in particular more than doubled as a result of Xbox 360 platform momentum. We have sold 6 million consoles live to date, and Xbox 360 software and accessories have remained at record levels in the U.S. relative to any previous console launches from competitors.  

Momentum for Xbox Live continued to build as well, passing the 4 million-member mark during the quarter. In addition to strength in gaming, our mobile and embedded device business recorded its sixth consecutive quarter of revenue growth in excess of 40%, as licenses for Windows mobile-based phones more than tripled.  

And finally, we announced the next step in our Connected Entertainment division with the coming availability of the Zune digital media player and online service for U.S. consumers starting on November 14.  

Now for the rest of the income statement. While revenue increased 11% for the quarter, the cost of revenue increased 35%, due primarily to Xbox 360. As a result, gross margin relative to the prior year was down 3 percentage points for the quarter, consistent with the guidance we provided in July.  

First-quarter operating expenses, other than cost of revenue, increased $560 million, or 14%, excluding certain legal charges in the prior-year quarter. While we continue to invest aggressively in both R&D and sales and marketing to drive future growth, expenses this quarter were lighter than we expected, primarily due to the timing of marketing program spend.  

Operating income for the quarter was $4.5 billion, up modestly from the prior year excluding certain legal charges in that year-ago quarter. Investment income and other totaled $567 million, driven by larger-than-expected gains on investment sales to fund our tender offer during the quarter.  

Our effective tax rate came in at 31%, slightly higher than the estimate provided to you in our guidance last call, due to the change in the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions.  

During the quarter we continued to execute against our strategy of returning capital to shareholders. We repurchased $7 million of company stock, including nearly $4 billion through our tender offer, and paid out $9 million in dividends during the quarter.  

Diluted shares outstanding were 10 billion, down 7% from the prior year as a result of execution against our share repurchase program. Earnings per share for the quarter were $0.35, $0.03 above the high-end of the range we provided in July.  

So, in summary, Q1 was a good start to fiscal 2007. The solid revenue results for the quarter were at the top-end of our expectations, and EPS exceeded our expectations with an exciting and important fiscal year now underway.  

Chris will now provide you with our expectations for the second quarter and fiscal year 2007.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Colleen. I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call talking about what we see coming for the full year and the second quarter. Before we get into the specific guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions.  

Our fiscal 2007 forecast assumes no major changes in the economic conditions and demand from where we exited the first quarter, and we are not forecasting any significant impacts from foreign exchange rate movements.  

We expect PC unit growth for fiscal 2007 to be 8 to 10% for the year, in line with the guidance we gave you last quarter, and between 6 and 8% for the second quarter. We continue to estimate that PC unit growth rates will be higher in the Consumer segment than in the Business segment, and higher in emerging markets than in mature markets. On the server hardware front, we remain comfortable with our estimates for total market growth of 10 to 12% for the year.  

Now let me go through our detailed guidance. For the full year we expect our revenue to come in between 50 and $50.9 billion, growing 13 to 15%. We are bringing up our revenue range to reflect how we finished quarter one, as well as also raising the top slightly.  

Our growth is driven by forward-based revenue growth across our five segments. For the second quarter we expect revenue of 11.8 to $12.4 billion, which represents quarterly growth of flat to up 5%.  

There are a couple of items to note when you consider our second-quarter revenue. First, the revenue figures for the second quarter include the impact of us deferring approximately $1.5 billion, primarily from our technology guarantee programs. Again, this simply defers the recognition of revenue from the second quarter until the third quarter. There is no full-year impact of these programs on revenue. Before these impacts, revenue guidance would have been 13.3 to $13.9 billion, which represents growth of 12 to 17%.  

Second, we expect PC unit growth in the second quarter to remain healthy, but moderate from the growth rate we saw in our fiscal first quarter, as well as from the growth rates we saw last year in second quarter. With that, revenue guidance in our five business units is as follows.  

For Client, we expect full-year growth to be 9 to 10% and second-quarter growth to be down 25 to 27%. This full-year guidance includes the impact of revenue recognition changes for Windows Vista, [which was] discussed on our call on Tuesday.  

Our second-quarter guidance includes the deferral of approximately $1 billion in revenue out of the quarter and into the third quarter. $1 billion covers revenue associated with both our technology guarantee program, as well as amounts for Windows Vista pre-shipments into the channel ahead of launch. If you were to normalize for the $1 billion of deferrals, second-quarter revenue would be growing 4 to 6%.  

Looking at the full-year growth, the commercial and retail portion of the Client segment should pick up in the second half due to our launch of Windows Vista targeted for volume licensing customers in November, and with broad availability in January.  

We expect Client OEM revenue to grow slightly below the PC hardware market for the year, due to increased concentration among larger OEMs, consumer hardware shipments growing faster than business shipments, and relatively faster growth in emerging markets.  

Server and Tools revenue should grow 15 to 16% for the year and 14 to 15% for the second quarter. We continue to expect double-digit growth throughout the year from the sustained momentum of SQL Server and from growth in Windows Server developer tools, our application business, and enterprise services.  

As we approach the anniversary of the SQL Server and Visual Studio launches, quarterly performance in the second half of the year will face tougher year-over-year comparables.  

We forecast revenue in the online services business to grow between 7 and 11% for the year and to be up 3 to 5% in quarter two. The full-year growth number implies significant year-over-year growth in the second half, based upon growth in both search and display advertising revenues.  

While we continue to make investments in various aspects of the business, we did make progress on a number of fronts in the quarter. For example, we rolled out the Live Search, which now powers searches on both MSN.com and live.com, moved our Live Local Search out of beta and into final availability in both the U.S. and the UK, continued to grow and broaden our social networking presence with spaces and the recent beta rollout of Soapbox, and we're making good progress getting advertisers on adCenter, as well as looking at opportunities to extend our reach through partnerships.  

Microsoft Business division revenues should grow 8 to 9% for the year and be down 8 to 10% in the second quarter. The full-year guidance now includes the impact of Dynamics revenue recognition we talked about earlier in the week, and that's close to what we gave you in July.  

Our second quarter revenue guidance includes approximately $500 million being deferred out of the second quarter and into the third quarter, due to both our technology guarantee program as well as a small amount of revenue associated with Office 2007 pre-shipments into the channel. If you were to normalize for the impact of the technology guarantee program, revenue growth for quarter two would be 3 to 5%.  

Fiscal 2007 is MBD's biggest year ever for product launches, with major releases in all areas of the business -- Office, Exchange, Dynamics, and Office Live.  

For the Entertainment and Devices division, we're forecasting full-year revenue growth of 33 to 46% and second-quarter growth of 50 to 75%. With 6 million Xbox 360 consoles sold live to date and a portfolio of 160 high-definition games by the end of the year, we remain optimistic that we will exit the holiday having sold over 10 million units since launch and end our fiscal year having sold 13 to 15 million units since launch.  

Operating income for the year is expected to be between 19.1 and $19.5 billion, growing 9 to 11%, excluding legal charges taken in fiscal 2006. In the second quarter we expect operating income to be between 2.9 and $3.1 billion, including approximately 1.5 billion of impact from revenue deferred from our technology guarantee and preshipment.  

$1.5 billion results from revenue recognition that is deferred from the second quarter into the third quarter and there's no full-year impact to this program to operating income, as we've mentioned. Excluding the impact of the technology guarantee, operating income for the second quarter would be between 4.4 and $4.7 billion.  

Second-quarter operating income includes the impact of higher overall mix of lower-margin hardware revenue from Xbox 360 and Zune, increased costs associated with the online services group, as well as operating costs in preparation for the launches of Windows Vista and the 2007 Office system.  

On our last earnings call we gave you additional color and guidance on cost of goods sold, given the evolving mix of our businesses. Even though we may not always do so each quarter, let me give you an update on COGS today. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue for the second quarter should increase by $0.08 to $0.09 over quarter two of last year. The increase results from a larger number of Xbox 360 consoles, plus the inclusion of Zune units. We're remaining with our previous guidance on the full year being up one to two points.  

We're also updating our guidance on our effective tax rate for the year. In July we estimated the full-year effective tax rate of 30.5%, but due to a change in the mix of earnings in various tax jurisdictions, we are now estimating a full-year tax rate of 31%, consistent with what we saw in the first quarter.  

(indiscernible) earnings per share for the year are expected to come in at $1.43 to $1.46, and $0.22 to $0.24 for the second quarter. Second-quarter EPS, excluding the impact of the technology guarantee, would have been $0.33 to $0.35. I'm pleased that, as a result of better business results and investment income, we have been able to keep our guidance largely in line with the full-year guidance we gave you in July.  

I'd like to take a moment now to drill down a bit on the makeup of our full-year EPS numbers. We told you back in July that we estimated the impact of the full completion of our tender offer would be $0.05 to $0.06 for the full fiscal year. Since only a portion of the shares were tendered, I wanted to do a quick reconciliation from our full-year guidance in July to what we're giving you today.  

First, instead of buying the previously (indiscernible) $20 billion worth of shares during the quarter through our tender offer, we repurchased a total of $4.8 billion, which comprised of 3.8 billion worth of stock through our tender offer, plus an additional 1 billion we made in open market purchases during the quarter. The lower repurchases will reduce our estimate by approximately $0.03 to both our low and high ranges.  

Second, offsetting that decrease would be higher operating income associated with better revenue growth, higher investment income for the year, negated somewhat by a higher effective tax rate. We estimate the net impact to add approximately $0.02 on the low-end and $0.01 on the high-end.  

Finally, the remaining $0.01 improvement to both our low and high-end EPS guidance comes from our ongoing buyback activity. As with past practice, we do not intend to share the expected pace of our prospective buyback execution, and it could differ from our expectations embedded in the guidance.  

From (indiscernible) perspective, we expect unearned revenues to finish fiscal 2006 -- 2007, I beg your pardon, up 5 to 7%. Contracted not-billed should also finish 2007 up from where we exited fiscal 2006.  

In thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from quarter one to quarter two, we expect seasonality similar to last year, plus the addition of the 1.5 in revenue associated primarily with our technology guarantee programs.  

For our full-year unearned revenue guidance, we're modeling a moderation in the recent annuity mix of our billings, as both Office 2007 and Windows Vista will be available to customers in the second half of the year.  

As we think about our guidance for the rest of the year, many of the risks and opportunities I talked about last quarter still exist. Aside from our normal competitive, legal and general market risks -- in particular, PC and server growth rates -- we have our share of execution risks in the year. Our plan relies on execution on a number of important product launches starting in the second quarter and extending through the rest of the fiscal year. Customer acceptance of our new products is uncertain and, in particular, customer acceptance of our products, such as Xbox 360 and Zune, are particularly difficult to predict during the holiday sales season. Also, the cost of acquiring and serving customers in our online business could increase.  

Potential upside to our guidance in some cases is a mirror image of our risks. For example, customer acceptance and demand for Windows Vista, the Office 2007 system, Xbox 360 and Zune could exceed our expectations. Customer demand for our hardware products like Xbox 360 and Zune units (indiscernible) fiscal revenue growth but not necessarily operating income growth. And finally, PC and server hardware shipments could grow faster than we anticipate.  

Before moving to Q&A, then, I'd like to make a couple of quick comments. We continue to execute well against our strategy for delivering long-term shareholder value. We are committed, and continue to be, to growth through innovation. By investing in innovation across a broad array of high-growth markets, as well as in the development of a services capability to complement our current software offerings, we are positioning the Company to grow operating income faster than our technology peers over the long term.  

With profitable growth, we generate significant operating cash flow, which enables two very important outcomes. First, it unleashes the virtuous cycle of reinvestment back into our business for further growth; and second, it allows us to advance our financial strategy of returning capital to shareholders. Overall we remain optimistic about our ability to innovate, to generate growth, and as a result of those, to create long-term shareholder value.  

That wraps up my financial comments. I'd like to hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started with your questions.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini, UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I was wondering if you could give us an idea, what was the premium SKU mix for the first 12 months of the Windows XP launch? And what's implicit in your guidance for Vista? And I guess as a follow-up, what do you view as [negating] factors of whether or not Client growth will be faster than PC shipment growth in calendar '07?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks very much. In terms of premium SKU merch mix, we're sticking with what Kevin Johnson told you at [FAM], which is we're looking at 52 to 54% -- I believe, is what he quoted -- for the year. That's this fiscal year, so we still feel good about that. Obviously it was higher than in the first quarter. But at this stage we're certainly comfortable with that number.  

In terms of the calendar year and growth, I think, which was the second half of your question, clearly, we are feeling good about growth in revenue in the Client area relative to PC units. So, in the first quarter and the second quarter, revenue growth will lag PC units. But then in the second half of the year, it's actually going to be at or above us, and equal to for the full year. So, we're looking at fiscal -- for fiscal year '07, PC units growing at 8 to 10%, and Client revenue growing in fact slightly higher than that, 9 to 10%. That's a result of not only good unit shipments, obviously, but also the positive impacts of our commercial and retail part of the Client business.  

In terms of XP and premium mix, I'll get one of my colleagues to grab that number. I don't have that at hand straightaway.  

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, J.P. Morgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Apologies; there's some construction behind me, if there's background noise. Two questions on the cost structure for the second quarter. You mentioned that you're going to be able to get some improvements in the Xbox margins. I was wondering if that's coming from software attach or component pricing. Secondly, as we look at the cost that shifted out of the first quarter, it looks like the operating margins, net the impact of the deferrals, were a little bit lower than I was looking for in Q2. Should we assume that higher amount falls in the second quarter, and then that's going to go in the marketing line? Thank you.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure, Adam. In terms of the better margin for Xbox, it's both those impacts. So, we are seeing lower cost per console, we're coming down the manufacturing cost line, and in fact, we're doing better than what we had hoped for. So, last year we saw slightly higher costs to console than we were expecting; this year, certainly to date, we're experiencing better costs per console. We're sticking, clearly, with our view of being cost-neutral over the console life. And this year is shaping up very well.  

On top of that, we did also get good software attach. So, we saw software attach, I believe, over five for the quarter, which when you spread over the number of units that we sold, meant that our revenue per unit for software was very good in the quarter. And we continue to be very pleased with that.  

And also from some of the other sources of revenue, they're not as significant, but, obviously, with the number of people that we're seeing on Xbox Live, we're starting to see some benefit from that. So, all of those are helping with the Xbox margins.  

In terms of the second half of your question, which was on the operating costs, most of that marketing spend was a shift from quarter one to quarter two. So, you are correct; to the extent that we saved some revenue on OpEx, to a large extent you'll see that in the second quarter. And as you'll see from our full-year guidance, that's still in tact exactly the same from an overall OpEx point of view. So, there's some spread, I believe, in the third and fourth quarter, but it's primarily a quarter 1 to quarter 2 shift.  

OPERATOR: Charles DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLES DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Chris, you sound pretty upbeat about the online services group, even though the numbers seem to be going pretty much sideways. Could you give us some insight, other than the product launches, to some of the metrics that you're looking at that give you confidence that this is really headed in the right direction? Maybe it's conversion rates or share or the size of the advertising community, but something that sort of underlies your confidence in that group.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: The revenue per search is, clearly, the one that we've got closest on our eye at the moment. We look at probably 10 to 12 metrics across that group fairly closely. But in terms of the revenue per search, that is going up sequentially quarter, as we get more advertisers onto the adCenter platform. And we're close to now lapping where we were when we came off the Overture platform from last year.  

So, with the revenue expectations that we have in the back half of the year, I am expecting us to basically -- certainly in the U.S. anyway -- to equal or go above our revenue per search on a year-over-year basis, not just a quarter-over-quarter basis, and that will help drive revenue in the second half.  

And on the display advertising side, we obviously look at both the volume and the monetization there. And both those figures -- again, we look at the back half of the year and expecting that to be pretty good, but (indiscernible) point of view, those numbers are reasonable as well.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Chris, if I could take you back to the call you did a couple days ago on the change in accounting for the undelivered -- was it undelivered elements for Windows versus the Dynamics, where you're going to move to ratable recognition. I wasn't on that call; I was in the air, but I just wanted a chance to come back to that issue. If you could clarify that. So, for Dynamics, starting in the third quarter, we're going to shift to ratable recognition?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, it's in the first quarter for Dynamics.  

RICK SHERLUND: First quarter of next year?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, the first quarter of this year.  

RICK SHERLUND: So, Dynamics is --  

CHRIS LIDDELL: There's a full-year impact for this year. And then a -- obviously, only a couple quarters of impact on the Vista side.  

RICK SHERLUND: I'm curious about how big that is, because I would think that the Windows change is bigger than the Dynamics change.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In absolute terms going forward, in particular as you look forward to fiscal year '08, you'll be absolutely correct. In terms of fiscal year '07, because one is for a full year and the other is only for a part year as the product phases in, then they basically offset each other. As we look to fiscal year '08, you'll see a much more significant impact from the Vista change relative to the Dynamics, obviously, because of the scale of those businesses. And when we give you guidance for next year, we will absolutely call that out and be transparent about it. Because as you know, it's purely an accounting change; it doesn't change the underlying economics. So, we will tell you exactly how much of the guidance for next year we anticipate with both of them. And you are right; it will be much more significant for Windows than it will be for Dynamics in fiscal year '08.  

RICK SHERLUND: And the reason for the change in dynamics is -- should I anticipate that you're going to move to an on-demand, sort of software-as-a-service model, where you can charge over time and you'd be relatively indifferent from a revenue recognition standpoint, whether it was on premise or on demand?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let me -- because it's more in the accounting area, let me just hand over to Frank and he'll give you the technical answer.  

FRANK BROD, CORPORATE VP OF FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION, CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: We have actually changed the way we are marketing the licenses there. In the past we've licensed on a per-module basis. Our new licensing program actually licenses on a per-seat basis. So with that, because all future software and upgrades and functionality are available to the new licensees, we will actually move to a ratable recognition rather than an up-front recognition.  

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.  

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just a quick clarification on the EPS guidance. So, the tender offer, the shortfall in the buyback on account of that is balanced by the investment income, right? Is that how you get to pretty much the same EPS guidance as before, or am I missing something? I just wanted to clarify that.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: There's three elements that help us get back. (indiscernible) two downward elements and three upward elements. One is the lower (indiscernible); we also have a slightly higher tax rate that we're anticipating for the year. So those, all other things being equal, would lower our EPS guidance for the year.  

In terms of upward impacts which offset that, we are, obviously, continuing to buy back shares during the course of the year. We have a better investment income, as you mentioned. But also, we got better operating income. So, we are guiding to higher revenue, and the benefits of that higher revenues are flowing through to operating income. So, I primarily call out better business performance, which is helping offset some of the lower earnings per share impacts of buyback.  

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Citigroup.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: With the new stiff antipiracy features in Vista, are you assuming similar antipiracy -- or piracy as in past cycle, or are you expecting a slight improvement with the Vista launch?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We're certainly looking at the back half of the fiscal year -- which is the only one at this stage, clearly, that we're guiding to -- to OEM unit sales being higher than PC units as a result of our antipiracy. So, we're looking at, I believe, for the full year something like a 1 to 2% benefit as a result of that. So, we're not looking at significantly different rates relative to XP. And clearly, as we go into fiscal year '08 and onwards, we'll give you some guidance at that stage. But certainly it is helping, but we're already seeing some positive benefits from what we're doing on the XP side.  

BRENT THILL: Okay. And the blended ASP, is that fair that it is 6 to 8% with Vista? Is that a fair rate, or you think it's a little lower?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm not sure where you're getting the 16% from, to be honest.  

BRENT THILL: No, I'm sorry. 6 to 8%; would that be a fair blended ASP increase with Vista versus XP? Would that be a fair range to assume for an ASP lift?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Look, we're giving -- obviously, we're giving or talking about the individual products. At this stage we're not talking about blended rates. We're talking about the premium mix that we expect. But we'll let the market determine what that's going to be in the second half of the year. We're not -- we have some anticipation in the guidance we've given, but I don't want to comment on the specific number for ASP.  

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Credit Suisse.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Just a question about use of cash. There's a lot of acquisitions going on at fairly high prices in the online property space. I'm just curious sort of what are your parameters around contemplating a transaction like that, and how you think about some of those larger deals? And also, just maybe as the flip-side of this is what are your plans for CapEx for this fiscal year, and have they changed at all since last quarter?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We are very rigorous on the acquisition side. We bought 23 companies last year, and as Colleen mentioned in her statement, we bought four in the first quarter. But we have an incredibly disciplined process for acquisitions that go through a number of stages, and clearly they need to be ROI and economic value-positive. So, you are correct that we are seeing some price inflation in some of the acquisitions that we're talking about. For every one we do, we probably turn down one or two. So, we don't buy everything that we look at. And we are selective on not only what we buy, but how much we pay for it.  

In terms of our attitude going forward on acquisitions, I think we've said a number of times at financial analyst meetings and outside of that, we do see acquisitions playing a role in our growth. So, I would certainly expect us to still buy companies. In the first quarter it tended to be more in the Server and Tools area. Going forward it could well be in the online services area, in particular, over the speed of how that market is developing. And some of the opportunities we're being shown, obviously that's a possibility. But we are not going to buy anything that we don't think creates economic value.  

In terms of CapEx, it's very much in line with what we guided you to in July. So, we're looking at just over $2 billion for the year. And I believe we spent $400 million in the first quarter. In terms of online spend on CapEx, which is one of the areas people are primarily interested in, we're looking at around $700 million for the full year, and we spent about 150 in the first quarter.  

OPERATOR: John McPeake, Prudential.  

JOHN MCPEAKE, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Back on the undelivered elements, you're now going to be recognizing that revenue versus deferring it. Could you talk a little bit about the give and takes there, with the fact that Vista Enterprise in particular is only available to customers with some sort of an SA or an EA that covers Client, and historically they've been able to buy that from the OEMs. I'm trying to get a sense as to how those two dynamics play out in the unearned (indiscernible) over the course of the year.  

FRANK BROD: Your question is about the undelivered elements and the enterprise agreements. Is that --?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of enterprise agreements, we'll still, obviously, ratably spread enterprise agreement income over the life of the contract. So, that won't change. It will only be for the undelivered elements of sales through, in particular, OEMs of the Vista software, where we -- it's not delivered under a software assurance program; it's delivered under a sale of a PC. When we sell under the sale of a PC, those undelivered elements will not be deferred as they were in XP. So, it doesn't really influence the enterprise agreement recognition, if I'm understanding your question correctly.  

JOHN MCPEAKE: That's correct. So, you've got about 15% that used to be deferred in the OEM agreements that's now being recognized. But you also have new SKUs that can only be purchased for the Client business. So, Vista Enterprise in particular, you need to have that covered by an SA. And that's a new thing for Microsoft, so I'm trying to get a sense as to whether that's going to have an incremental positive impact, potentially, over the course of the year to your unearned. So, you have a new SKU that is a Client SKU.  

COLLEEN HEALY: If more users find that particular SKU, which you can only get under an SA, very compelling, then yes, you would see more unearned. That's a big assumption to make. But certainly, the accounting there has not changed. To the extent that we see more business done through volume licensing, you would continue to expect to see that same impact on unearned and contracted not-billed.  

OPERATOR: Peter Misek, Canaccord Adams.  

PETER MISEK, ANALYST, CANACCORD ADAMS: Just one quick question on other product cycles. We haven't heard an update recently on how the Longhorn server cycle appears to be progressing. Clearly, we're coming to the end of the Vista launch cycle. [Can you] provide us any update on that product cycle, please?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: That's still on track for the second half of next calendar year. So, no change for that.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks so much. We probably have time for just one or two more questions.  

OPERATOR: Kevin Buttigieg, A.G. Edwards.  

KEVIN BUTTIGIEG, ANALYST, A.G. EDWARDS: On the forecast for the Server and Tools unit revenue growth of 10 to 12%, I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about how you see the impact of virtualization on that growth rate. Obviously, you have Microsoft Virtual Server, but perhaps offsetting that might be some lower unit sales of Windows Server. Could you just sort of help form the parameters around virtualization's impact on that business?  

COLLEEN HEALY: I mean, our thinking around virtualization is that it's good for customers. We feel like our offerings address those well. The industry is going there, and that's reflected in the hardware server -- server numbers that you see from the Company. We feel like our pricing is very competitive, especially to other pricing out there -- pretty easy to understand, pretty competitive. We think that we're well positioned there, and we welcome ushering it in, and we've got good products there.  

KEVIN BUTTIGIEG: So, 10 to 12% seems like it sustainable, then, in light of virtualization's adoption rate?  

COLLEEN HEALY: Today we're giving you second quarter fiscal year '07 guidance. But virtualization, we think, is a good thing for the industry. And just like with Moore's Law, getting more power out of your hardware is a good thing for the ecosystem.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Time for one last question, please.  

OPERATOR: Laura Lederman, William Blair.  

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: I have two quick questions. One is, can you give us an update on cash flow, what your expectations are for this year? And also, phenomenal result for SQL Server. Can you talk about where you're particularly seeing strength in that product? Thank you.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the cash flow side, it will follow traditional patterns. Clearly, cash flows for the quarter and the second quarter are impacted to some extent by inventory builds for Xbox, but that will wash itself out through the system. So, when you look at our cash flow for the year, the only real elements of significance are probably slightly higher CapEx. But in the overall scheme of Microsoft, that's not huge. But spending just over $2 billion of CapEx will, clearly, be an impact on cash flow.  

Our inventory and working capital should be broadly in line with historic patterns. And then, clearly, the buyback is the last thing, which will depend to some extent on what we buy in the second half of the year. But other than that, cash flow trends will be typical from what you've seen in previous years. I'm sorry; what was the second half of your question?  

LAURA LEDERMAN: SQL Server was a great result. Where are you particularly seeing strength -- vertical markets, company size, applications? Just give us some context on why that growth rate is still so strong.  

COLLEEN HEALY: I'll take out one. So, SQL strong, really, across the board, as evidenced by 30% growth, really means you do need to have some nice broad strength. We've been particularly delighted in the larger enterprises really looking to SQL for their critical applications. And then we continue to do well in the mid-size space as well. So, really it's been nice, broad strength there.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: What about U.S. versus international?  

COLLEEN HEALY: Again, with nice 30% growth, you're going to see really good adoption, really, across the board. Thanks, Laura.  

And thank you, everyone, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations Website through close of business October 26, 2007. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-505-6378, or for international calls, dial 203-369-1866. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business November 2, 2006. Thanks again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061109e2aq0033c
  


 HD
 Q4  2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,490 words
   PD
20 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Microsoft 2006 fiscal-year fourth-quarter earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. Please be advised this call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER OF IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Frank Brod, Corporate Vice President of Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 and an overview of expectations for fiscal year 2007. I will then provide details around our fourth-quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the full year and first quarter of fiscal 2007. After that, we will take your questions.  

Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights, which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our remarks today in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides reconciliations of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on July 20, 2007.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially, because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and our 2005 Form 10-K, subsequent quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. We are pleased to be with you today to share our results and talk with you about how we see fiscal 2007 shaping up. I will start today's call with highlights from last year's performance and then give you an overview of our expectations for next year. Let me remind you that we will discuss quarter four and fiscal year 2006 results on the reporting structure of seven operating segments, and will provide fiscal year 2007 guidance under the new reporting structure of segments.  

You heard directly from Frank Brod on Monday of this week, when we provided you with a preview of our new reporting structure. I would like to say I'm delighted that Frank has joined our team during the quarter as Chief Accounting Officer. He brings a wealth of knowledge to the team with his prior work experience plus his participation in the standard-setting process of the FASB.  

Looking at results, fiscal year 2006 marked our return to double-digit revenue growth, with top-line growth coming with our guidance provided at our last financial analyst meeting. Revenue growth accelerated throughout the year, resulting in 11% growth over fiscal year 2005. Not only did we benefit from better-than-expected PC demand and an overall healthy tech economy, we also enjoyed strong customer acceptance of our newly launched products. At Home & Entertainment, Server & Tools and Business Solutions groups, which all had launches during the year, turned in a combined 20% plus year-over-year revenue growth. The Home & Entertainment division made significant progress, and sold 5 million Xbox 360 consoles for the year.  

Second, our core businesses turned in an excellent performance, with double-digit bookings growth in both the quarter and full year, and unearned revenue finished your growing 19%, which is a tremendous performance. We saw broad-based strength from business customers for not only our core Windows, Office and server products but also increased demand for communications products and services.  

Third, you'll see the both Business Solutions and Mobile Embedded Devices exceed our original revenue guidance for the year, and achieved operating profitability, which we forecast to be sustainable going forward. We are particularly pleased about hitting this business milestone, given the change in our reporting structure. I want to give credit in particular to the teams working on those businesses.  

Finally, we made substantial progress on our strategy of returning cash to shareholders during fiscal year 2006. We have purchased over $6 billion of shares since I last talked with you, and we closed the year returning over $23 billion of cash to shareholders through dividend and stock repurchases.  

I'm very pleased to announce, on the second anniversary of our $30 billion stock buyback plan, that we have completed that program in half the time originally authorized. With that program now completed, our Board of Directors has authorized a $20 billion tender offer to be completed over 20 business days, starting tomorrow. They have also given authorization to repurchase up to an additional $20 billion of company stock, at management's discretion. This latter authorization expires in June 2011.  

So moving to fiscal 2007 guidance, the coming year brings the second major installment on our multiyear product cycle and a period of improving revenue growth for the Company. So let me make a couple of key points about the year.  

First, we're expecting continued double-digit revenue growth. The launches of Windows Vista and Office 2007 will drive significant revenue growth in the second half of the year. Combine that with the seasonally strong Entertainment & Devices revenue around the holiday, and you'll see a very strong revenue growth in Q2 and beyond.  

Second, growth in operating income in the first half of the year will lag revenue growth, due to increasing mix of Xbox 360 console revenue and related costs, coupled with significant investments and preparations for the launches of our flagship products. This trend should reverse in the second half of the year, when we expect operating income will grow faster than revenue.  

Third, we're making some big investments in key areas of long-term growth. You are going to hear more from me today on these subjects, with additional color and detail, at the financial analyst meeting next week about how these investments will help drive future growth for the Company.  

So fiscal 2007 is going to be an important and exciting year for us. We are very pleased with our expected top-line growth, and we believe we're making the right investments for our future. In particular, our announced tender buyback, combined with our expected revenue performance, lays the groundwork for strong EPS growth in fiscal 2007, while still investing in innovations to drive future long-term growth.  

With those high-level themes for 2006 and 2007, I'm going to turn the call over to Colleen now for some more details on how the 2006 fiscal year closed out.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. In the interest of providing more time on today's call for Chris to discuss our fiscal year 2007 guidance, I am going to keep my remarks about our fiscal fourth quarter and fiscal 2006 performance brief.  

Overall, it was a strong finish to the year. Specifically, during the quarter, we delivered higher-than-expected revenue growth at 16%, and bookings growth exceeded 25% on the strength of healthy, broad-based demand across all of our customer segments, channels and regions. We released the betas for Windows Vista, Office 2007 and Exchange Server 2007, as well as a number of other new product releases.  

Operating income was $3.9 billion, which includes $351 million of legal charges related to the European Commission fine. Before this legal charge, operating income grew 13% to $4.2 billion.  

Earnings per share were $0.28, which includes the $0.03 charge related to the European Commission fine. Before this charge, earnings per share were $0.31.  

We returned over $5 billion in capital to shareholders during the quarter, and over $23 billion for the fiscal year.  

I will now provide more detail on our financial performance, starting with revenue. I will discuss top-line financial and business momentum points, and then follow up with revenue performance for each of the business units. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.  

Revenue growth for the quarter was 16%. That's the fastest quarterly growth rate in over two years, and the highest Q4 growth rate in seven years. Strong results in Home & Entertainment, Server & Tools and the Client businesses were the primary drivers, accounting for 85% of the absolute revenue growth in the quarter. Overall, five of our seven business groups recorded double-digit growth rates.  

Revenue growth for the year was 11%, with quarterly growth rates accelerating throughout the year, driven by strong product launches such as SQL Server 2005, Xbox 360, Dynamics CRM 3.0 and Visual Studio 2005. Our core businesses of Client, Information Worker and Server & Tools performed well. Taken together, they achieved double-digit revenue growth and exceeded our expectations of a year ago.  

Healthy PC and server hardware market growth we key contributors to our results, both during the quarter and during the year. The PC market was stronger than we expected, with an estimated growth rate of approximately 11% to 12% in Q4.  

The consumer segment growth rate outpaced that of the business segment by a factor of two, and all regions registered double-digit growth, with the exception of North America and Japan.  

Our mix of product billings continued to evolve this quarter, with approximately 30% from the OEMs, 40% from multiyear licensing agreements, 15% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. Relative to prior year, our mix continues to highlight a noticeable swing from license-only sales to multiyear licensing agreements, in front of flagship product launches such as Windows Vista and Office 2007 scheduled for later this year.  

As a result, we had a very strong quarter overall from a volume licensing perspective, with strong renewals on enterprise agreements in particular. We estimate that EA renewal experience is trending to the high end of our historical range of 66 to 75%. In addition, select and open annuity growth significantly outpaced non-annuity licensing.  

Our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter at a record $10.9 billion, up 19% over the same period in the prior year and a record $2 billion increase over the prior quarter. Our contracted, not billed balance at the end of June was also sequentially higher, and continues to exceed $9 billion.  

If you consider our reported revenue and changes in the unearned and contracted, not billed balances, you will find that bookings growth exceeded 25% for the quarter and over 10% for the full fiscal year. We believe these results are indicative of not only strong customer acceptance of our recently launched products but, more importantly, the compelling value proposition and growing customer demand for our future products.  

I want to also point out that our revenue results for the quarter include about $180 million or 2 percentage points of growth, resulting from a change in the billing methodology for OEM distributors in our system builder channel. We now bill and record revenue for all of our OEM distributors, regardless of their size, when the product is delivered to them.  

Now, I would like to provide revenue highlights by business segment. Client revenue grew 12%, driven by OEM revenue growth of 13%. OEM revenue growth resulted from 19% license unit growth. The 6 percentage point difference between OEM license unit growth and revenue growth this quarter was caused primarily by growing volume in emerging markets and the relative strength of the consumer segment of the market. We were particularly pleased with growth of 6% in Client's commercial and retail licensing products, driven primarily by strong growth in multiyear contract agreements. This is the first quarter of growth for Client's commercial and retail licensing business since Q1 of fiscal 2005.  

Server & Tools delivered double-digit revenue growth for the 16th consecutive quarter. 18% revenue growth in the quarter was driven by strong momentum from new product launches earlier in the year, including SQL Server, which grew over 35%. Windows server performance also remained strong, with net deployment growth consistent with overall X86 server market growth.  

Information Worker revenue grew 6% to $3.1 billion, driven by strong growth in multiyear contract agreements for Office and momentum in our real-time communications business. To shift to annuity offerings for Office accelerated the quarter, signaling strong customer demand for our upcoming Office 2007 product. As a result, unearned revenue for Information Worker was up 28% from the prior year.  

MVS revenue was up 16% from the prior year, resulting from continued strength in our Dynamics ERP products, as well as Dynamics CRM momentum. During the quarter, over 50,000 new Dynamics CRM users were added as the product grew rapidly across all segments, geographies and industry verticals. Strong revenue growth and efficiencies drove MVS operating profitability for both the quarter and, for the first time ever, for the full year.  

MSN revenue was $580 million and down 3%, with flat advertising growth and a 13% decline in access revenue. Display revenue for the quarter grew in line with the market, and we continue to make good progress in ramping our adCenter platform. Currently, we are servicing 100% of our US search traffic on adCenter, along with traffic in select countries internationally.  

MED capped off a very strong year and its fifth consecutive quarter of revenue growth in excess of 40%. During fiscal 2006, license growth for Windows mobile-based phones was 90%, and the division achieved operating profitability for the first time ever.  

Lastly, Home & Entertainment growth of 94% during the quarter was driven by strong performance across all of its businesses. Xbox grew over 125%, as a result of 1.8 million Xbox 360 unit shipments during the quarter. With an installed base of 5 million consoles and growing, key profit drivers such as Xbox 360 software and accessory attach remain very strong relative to previous console launches from competitors.  

Now, for the rest of the income statement. While revenue increased 16% for the quarter and 11% for the year, cost of revenue increased 53% and 27%, respectively, due primarily to Xbox 360 console volumes. As a result, gross margin relative to the prior year was down 4 percentage points for the quarter and 2 percentage points for fiscal 2006.  

Q4 operating expenses, other than cost of revenue, increased $414 million or 8% excluding legal charges. Aside from cost of revenue, operating expenses excluding legal charges in fiscal 2006 increased 11%.  

Operating income for the quarter was $4.2 billion, excluding legal charges, up 13% or $487 million. If you set aside legal charges in the Home & Entertainment results, which were disproportionately impacted by negative margin console sales, operating margins in Q4 improved by 2 percentage points over the prior year.  

Looking at the full fiscal year, operating income was $17.6 billion excluding legal charges, up 6% or $[960] million from the prior year. Operating margins in fiscal 2006 were also negatively impacted by strong Xbox 360 console sales. If you normalize for legal charges and Home & Entertainment results, you'll find that operating income grew slightly faster than revenue, and operating margins were consistent with the prior year.  

Investment income and other totaled $317 million during the quarter, and our effective tax rate was 34%, as the result of non-deductible legal charges. The effective tax rate for the quarter and the year, excluding nonrecurring items, was 31%. Diluted shares outstanding were 10.3 billion for the quarter and 10.5 billion for the year, down 5% and 3%, respectively, from the prior year as a result of execution against our share repurchase program. Boiling it all down, earnings per share including legal charges for the quarter were $0.31. For the full year, we delivered earnings per share excluding legal charges and tax benefits of $1.27, which is in line with the guidance we provided to you a year ago.  

Chris will now provide you with our expectations for Q1 and fiscal year 2007.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call talking about what we see coming for the full year and the first quarter, and then close with my comments with some color on today's stock buyback announcement. Before we get into specific guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions. The fiscal 2007 forecast assumes a broad continuation in the economic conditions and demand from where we exited in 2006. Our forecast does not include any significant impacts from foreign exchange movements.  

We expect PC unit demand to continue to remain healthy, but to moderate from the growth rates we saw in 2006, particularly in our fiscal second quarter, ahead of the launch of Windows Vista. Specifically, we expect PC unit growth for fiscal 2007 to be 8% to 10% for the year and between 9% and 11% for the first quarter. We estimate that PC unit growth rates will be higher in consumer segments than in business segments, and higher in emerging markets than in mature markets. On the server hardware front, we estimate the total market should grow 10% to 12% for the year.  

So let me go through some detailed guidance. For the full year, we expect our revenue to come in between $49.7 billion to $50.7 billion, growing 12% to 14%. This is in line with the guidance we gave you in April, and is actually a little better on dollar terms, given our stronger finish to fiscal year 2006. Our growth is driven by broad-based revenue growth across all of our five segments. For the first quarter, we expect revenue of $10.6 billion to $10.8 billion, which represents a growth rate of 9% to 11%.  

There are a couple items to note when you consider our first-quarter revenue. First, PC unit growth, while still healthy, is slowing from the growth rates we saw in our fiscal fourth quarter, as well as from the growth rates we saw last year in quarter one. Second, we expect that Office customers will continue to prepare annuity agreements over license-only purchases in advance of the Office 2007 launch. Thirdly, we expect our Xbox business to experience a slower pace of growth in the first quarter, due to the seasonally slower sales period in the gaming industry.  

Also, when thinking about the shape of the year, given the timing of our key product launches, you should expect revenue growth to be stronger beginning in the second quarter, driven in part by revenue growth from our Entertainment & Devices Division. Furthermore, we expect an increase in the seasonality of our total expenses in the first half, due to increased product costs associated with EDD console shipments.  

Revenue guidance in our recently announced five business units reporting structure is as follows. For Client, we expect full-year growth to be 8% to 10% and quarter-one growth to be 5% to 6%. That guidance includes improvement in the commercial and retail portion of our business (technical difficulty) launch of Windows Vista targeted to go to businesses in November and consumers in January.  

For the OEM portion of the business, we expect revenue to grow slower than the PC hardware market, due to increased concentration amongst larger OEMs, consumer hardware shipments growing faster than business shipments and relatively faster growth in emerging markets.  

Server & Tools revenue should grow 14% to 15% for the year and 12% to 14% for the first quarter. Coming off the impressive growth in last year, Server & Tools will continue to show double-digit growth throughout the year from the sustained momentum of SQL Server and Visual Studio, combined with growth in Windows Server, our security and management products and Enterprise Services.  

We forecast revenue in the Online Services group to grow between 7% and 11% for the year and be flat to down 4% in Q1. Growth in the first half of fiscal 2007 will be negatively impacted on a year-over-year comparison, due to the transition to our adCenter platform in the US and our upcoming transition to adCenter in the UK, slated to begin in August. We are pleased with the nonfinancial results from adCenter, such as 100% of our US search traffic running through the platform and the positive feedback from advertisers on the ROI of their advertising programs.  

Microsoft Business division revenue should grow 9% to 10% for the year and about 3% to 5% for the first quarter. Revenue growth in Q1 will be tempered by customers' preference to purchase annuity contracts, as well as a decrease in the rate of license-only purchases in front of the launch of Office 2007, expected later in the calendar year.  

We are expecting strong revenue growth in the second half of the fiscal year. We feel that our customers' continued preference to purchase annuity contracts indicates their excitement about Office 2007. We also expect continued strong demand from our Dynamics products, building upon the momentum in fiscal 2006.  

For the Entertainment & Devices Division, we're forecasting another strong year, with full-year revenue growth of 31% to 46% and first-quarter growth of 53% to 60%. The yearly guidance implies by the end of the fiscal year, we will have sold 13 million to 15 million Xbox 360 consoles since launch. The EDD team is carrying good momentum into fiscal year 2007, and growth will benefit from holiday sales of Xbox 360, increased commercial rollouts of IPTV and continued introductions of devices running Windows Mobile 5.0 with Direct Push technology.  

Operating income for the year is expected to be between $18.9 billion and $19.4 billion, growing at 8% to 10% excluding legal charges. For the quarter, we expect operating income to be between $4.0 billion and $4.2 billion.  

Quarter-one operating income includes the impact of a higher overall mix of lower-margin revenue for Xbox 360, increased costs associated with the Online Services group, as well as operating costs in preparation for the launch of Windows Vista and Office 2007. On today's call, with our planning process now complete, I would like to give you some additional color and guidance on expenses that we do not usually give in our earnings call. We don't expect to give this level of detail going forward, but know there's a lot of interest in the area for next year.  

Because of our evolving mix of businesses, and given the wide range of COGS estimates in the financial community, I want to provide you with some guidance here on how we think about it going into our fiscal year. Cost of goods sold as a percentage of revenue should increase between 1 to 2 points for the year, and should be up 3 points in Q1, resulting from an increase in the number of Xbox 360 consoles we'll sell, additional costs associated with infrastructure and content costs in our Online Services group and support and packaging costs for the retail launches of Windows Vista and Office 2007.  

Also, as we discussed on our third-quarter earnings call, we will be increasing our operating expenses to fund a variety of investments and activities in fiscal 2007. I would like to provide additional color on the size of that spending today, and you will hear more about the strategic nature of these investments next week at our financial analyst meeting.  

On our last earnings call, you'll recall that I characterized our spending into four general areas, which were the following -- increased product costs associated with Xbox consoles; marketing and field sales spending, including launch costs; quickening the pace of development in high-growth areas, such as business intelligence, security, management and unified communications; and increased costs to execute on our online services strategy.  

In regards to the first group, Xbox products costs, we have now given you guidance on the number of units we're forecasting to sell by the end of fiscal year, and have provided companywide growth estimates for our cost of revenue, which were expressed as a percentage of revenue. This information should help you quantify the impact of Xbox.  

The second group, marketing and field sales costs, contain two distinct pools of spend. The first pool is what I consider launch costs, and totals approximately $450 million of increased spending in fiscal year 2007 over fiscal year 2006. That's the amount will spend in various areas, such as creating awareness for Office 2007, Windows Vista and marketing for Xbox during the holidays.  

The second pool contains investments we will make in our sales force to ensure we have the appropriate level of resources to successfully execute in taking all of our new products to market and serve customers. The second pool represents roughly $450 million.  

Combined, this marketing and field sales category is in the range of a $900 million investment next year. The total increase in spending also reflects general increases in salaries and costs in that area, and will help us deliver our record $5 billion to $6 billion sales increase forecasted for the coming fiscal year.  

The third group is developing either current high-growth products or developing new products and services to lay the groundwork for future growth. This group includes both announced products, such as our efforts in unified communications, mobility, business intelligence, security, high-performance computing, web servers, management, IPTV and also unannounced products and services that we believe are likely during the year. It also includes spending on our long-term research efforts.  

This is by far the largest amount of incremental investment for the Company in fiscal year 2007 compared to fiscal year 2006, and totals approximately $1 billion across all of our business groups and corporate research staff. Our $1 billion consists of $200 million to $300 million in each of the following four groups -- in BD, Server & Tools, EDD and our Corporate Research group. These efforts in general are much longer-term, and therefore drive modest amounts of revenue in the coming fiscal year.  

The fourth and final group of expenses is the incremental amount we will be spending on our services strategy. We intend to grow operating expenses in total in this area by approximately $500 million in fiscal year 2007. This will be spread across developing and acquiring content to fuel our display advertising, continued to build out and improve our search offerings and ad platform and funding increases in our infrastructure for data centers and equipment. The return on this spend is to some extent in fiscal year 2007 but also further out, to support our MSN and large strategies. This group also include spending on our Office Live and CRM Live products.  

All told, adding up these four buckets should amount to approximately $2.4 billion of incremental investments in fiscal year 2007. As you can see by our guidance, total operating expenses, excluding cost of goods sold, are growing by about $2.7 billion, and that maps to the presentations by company management to investors during the quarter, adjusted for our assumptions around foreign exchange rates. The remaining $300 million of operating cost growth is largely due to general increases in costs and unallocated acquisition amounts that we may do during the year. These acquisitions generally have a high year-one accounting cost.  

Diluted earnings per share for the year are expected to come in at $1.43 to $1.47, and $0.30 to $0.32 for the first quarter. These numbers assume full completion of our announced tender offer, which we estimate will have an impact of between $0.05 to $0.06 for the full fiscal year and $0.01 in quarter one. These earnings also assume an effective tax rate of 30.5%.  

From a balance sheet perspective, we expect unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2007 up 4% to 6%. Contracted not billed should also finish 2007 up from current levels. When thinking about sequential changes in unearned revenue from the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006 to the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, we expect the sequential decrease to be significantly greater than what you have seen in the last two years. This decline will be due to the absolute size of our fiscal fourth-quarter annuity billings relative to what we are projecting for quarter one, as well as a relatively small amount of contract value that is up for renewal. Also, when looking at our full-year unearned revenue guidance, we are modeling a moderation in the recent annuity mix of our billings, as both Office 2007 and Windows Vista will be available to customers in the second half of the year.  

I am asked by investors about areas of upside opportunities and downside risks to our guidance. Aside from our normal competitive, legal and general market risks, in particular PC and server growth rates, we have our share of execution risks in the next year. Our plan relies on execution on product launches and our ability to connect with customers once the products are in the market. There's also uncertainty around timing, supply and consumer response to upcoming game console launches by major competitors. Finally, as management has stated previously, the cost of acquiring and serving customers in our online businesses could increase. Specifically, in terms of EPS guidance, our guidance assumes successful completion of the announced tender, with the resulting reduction in shares more than offsetting the loss of investment income from the cash used in the tender.  

Some potential upside to our guidance includes customer acceptance from Windows Vista and Office 2007 exceeding our expectations; customer demand for Xbox 360 units and games to be higher than we're forecasting, although this would assist revenue growth but not necessarily operating income growth; and finally, PC and server hardware shipments could grow faster than we anticipate.  

Before moving to Q&A, I would like to make a couple of comments regarding the specifics of the share repurchase plan we announced today. The first component of today's buyback announcement is a $20 billion tender that, assuming it is fully completed inside the tender range, will reduce our outstanding share count by approximately 8%. The period for people to tender their shares will begin tomorrow, July 21st, and is scheduled to expire on or about August 17th of this year. The tender offer is priced between $22.50 and $24.75 per share. Our executive officers and directors have advised that they will not be tendering any shares.  

The second component of the announcement is an authorization for our $20 billion stock repurchase plan to be completed at a pace and size to be decided upon by management, and with an authorization expiry date of June 2011. I would like to reemphasize that amounts that we purchase under this program could vary throughout the term of the plan, and there is likely to be quarters where we have little or no activity against it. It is also important to note that this is simply an authorization, not a commitment. We will always report our activity of any quarterly in arrears, but I do not intend to comment on any potential forecast activity.  

So, to wrap up, the fourth quarter served as a strong close to what turned out to be a good year. Full-year revenue growth accelerated to double digits, gaining momentum throughout the year, helped by customer acceptance of our newly launched products and continued robust PC and server hardware sales. 2007 is shaping up well. We're looking to generate another year of double-digit revenue and EPS growth as we deliver new releases of our two flagship products, Windows Vista and Office 2007, and build upon the momentum in Server & Tools and Entertainment & Devices. We will make significant investments in a variety of areas to build the next wave of growth of the Company, and will continue to execute on our strategy of returning cash to shareholders.  

That wraps up my financial comments. I'm looking forward to catching up with a number of you next week at our financial analyst meeting. You'll hear then from our business leaders, and receive further insights on the topics we have discussed today and our thoughts for 2007 and beyond.  

So we have left some time for questions. I will hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Heather Bellini, UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I was wondering, Chris, if you could give us an idea what Vista release assumptions are embedded into your guidance for fiscal year 2007 in terms of timing. Then I just have follow-up to that, if possible.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Embedded in that, in Vista, is the November release to business and January to consumers, and on the Office side, by the end of the year for business and the beginning of next year for consumers. So it's the same base case as we have previously talked about.  

HEATHER BELLINI: I guess the granularity that I was looking for is, if so many people are moving to annuity agreements as a result of Vista, as evidenced by your strong bookings growth this quarter, even if it did slip from the January consumer release, out for let's just say a month or two, would it really impact your guidance that much, given that the enterprise customers have basically paid you already and you're just recognizing that revenue on a systematic basis?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, that's a good observation, and you are correct that there will be a relatively modest impact. There would obviously be some FPP sales that we would lose if it was to be deferred. To give you a sense of order of magnitude -- and obviously this depends on the shape of the year as much as anything else. But if we were to see a slip, let's say, of a quarter, to give you a financial magnitude, we think that would have an impact of around $200 million to $400 million. So obviously, revenue that we would like to see, but not significant in the overall guidance.  

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.  

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: If you could just talk about when you expect to actually do your launch-related spending? In other words, Bill Gates, I think, was mentioned in the press talking about an 80% probability of release of Vista on time in January. So I am wondering how you are going to be timing the actual launch activities surrounding what still seems to be sort of a moving target.  

Secondly, also, if you could give us a little bit more color of how this Dutch auction process will actually work, mechanically? Not to expect too much out of it, but if you could just give us a little more bit more color on how you can [accomplish] the range of $22.58 to $24.70, that will be useful perspective.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of spending, obviously we will time that around the launch date. As we get more and more closer to that and more certain of that, we'll start to work that in. We have embedded some plans already, and that is characterized inside not only our first-quarter guidance but for the year overall. Some of the decisions we will wait until we have the absolute date locked in, but at this stage, we have some flexibility around that. So at this stage, it's not going to be a significant difference and pattern of spending, but as when we lock the date in, we will certainly press the button on the total spending overall.  

In terms of the Dutch auction, just to go back to basics, so it will open tomorrow and close on August 17th, as I mentioned. People will be able to sell or offer to sell shares inside the range that we have bid during that period. In essence, they will be able to offer a certain number of shares at price points inside the range. So X shares at Y price, X plus Z at Y, at different price points. So we will have a schedule of prices at which people are willing to sell shares. We will add up the aggregate of all of those offers and strike a price which clears the market, so the price at which we can buy $20 billion of value of shares.  

That price is the price that we will pay to everyone who has bid, whether they have bid below that or not. So we will play the clearing price, then, to all successful sellers. So it's like an auction system. It's a Dutch auction in the sense that people will bid at different price points against us, and then we will take a clearing price for the market inside the range.  

KASH RANGAN: So the clearing price ought to be somewhere between that range you are talking about? In a best case scenario, it would be $24.70, but maybe not exactly at that level?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: There are $0.10 increments inside the range, and it clearly could obviously be at the absolute bottom or the absolute top of the range. It doesn't have to be inside the range; it could be inside or equal to the range limits.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just to follow up on Kash's comment, for clarification -- so you would expect one date where you will have a clearing price, so there's only one date within that range where the transaction will take place?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, that's correct. That's the last date. So up until that time, people can offer to tender, but we won't strike the price until the very last day, by which time all our offers to sell will be collected. We strike it on, if you like, the last minute of the last day. Any offers made before that will just simply be aggregated into that timing.  

RICK SHERLUND: But will there be any advantage to offering earlier? Or would you sense that people would wait until the last couple of days to submit their offers?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well, there is no advantage from a seller's point of view, because we are not legally able to buy early. So we are constrained by the rules of tender, which we are obviously following totally. So people can logistically get some advantage, if they want to, but it's entirely up to them. We don't want to influence behavior at all; we just want to stick inside the rules. But the rules specify that we cannot accept offers until the final.  

RICK SHERLUND: On the Online Services group, the guidance for the year was revenue growth of 7% to 11%, which looks pretty encouraging. I'm wondering if you can offer any insight into how much of this is coming from Windows Live, MSN? Are you assuming that MSN, when adCenter begins to gain correction -- I wonder if you can just give us a little more granularity on what's behind those numbers?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: From a revenue growth point of view, Windows Live is not a significant contributor in fiscal year 2007. It obviously helps to drive some traffic, but we are not seeing that has a big increment in this year. That's an investment in future years.  

AdCenter will certainly help. What's you've got year over year is quite different shapes. We came out of last fiscal year with our revenue for search effectively going down as we moved over to and onto adCenter. Through the shape of this year, we are now fully on adCenter in the US. As we start to get better comparables as we go through the year, you will see much better quarter-on-quarter comparison. Also, as we scale up adCenter, it will also help, clearly. So during the course of the year you'll see an improvement, and that's certainly embedded in the numbers that you see.  

Also, obviously, the access business is still decreasing, but it's becoming less significant in terms of the decrease. So we're looking forward to a good continued year on the display side and a transition year on the search side.  

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I would actually like to follow up on Rick's question here around MSN. If we look at that guidance, how should we evaluate adCenter? When can we start to see you start to turn the corner and at least track towards the overall search/ad market here? We would expect, obviously, Access to be declining and display to be sort of inline with the market. Just those two things could get you to the guidance you have here. Could you give us some more granularity on how we can evaluate your progress with adCenter?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, I think there's two ways. One is, if you like, qualitative. Through the year, we will share as much visibility as we can. I know [Kevin and Ray] are certainly intending to talk about it next week, just about some of the kind of qualitative metrics, as we transition adCenter -- the number of advertisers on it, for example, the general level of acceptance. So that will give you some leading indicators of how we see the health of it.  

In terms of lagging indicators, the bottom line, you will be able to see our overall revenue growth. You'll obviously be able to make some assumptions about what is happening on the display side, because generally speaking, we're trekking in line with market there. The access will be progressively less of a factor, so the delta will be the search side. And you will be able to see, as the year goes on, on a quarter-by-quarter basis, when you compare it both sequentially and also to the previous quarter, you will be able to see some of the adCenter impact directly from a financial output point of view.  

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, JPMorgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: My question is about the detail on the expenses for fiscal 2007, which was very helpful. Historically, you have said that some of the Xbox ramp expenses are effectively going to be one-time in nature. Presumably, some of the marketing and launch-related costs for Vista and Office are also going to be one-time oriented. As you think about the long-term spending profile for the Company, maybe if you could detail what you view as sort of the moment-in-time set of expenses versus what we should expect to see on an ongoing basis?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We have tried to give you visibility in that by talking about launch and marketing spending as a category. I won't describe this entirely one-off, because there are other launches that happen year by year. But we bucketed that, and that's the $450 million. So in terms of Vista, Office 2007 and Xbox launch-related spending, that's in the category of $450 million. So that gives you some visibility as to, on a year-by-year basis, what you might consider as one-off.  

In terms of the other areas of spending, they are more ongoing in nature. Clearly, in some of the businesses, we are building the business up. So it's not necessarily continuous at that level. But they aren't, if you like, one-off in nature -- in particular, when we are hiring R&D and salespeople, who are continuous there afterwards.  

ADAM HOLT: If I could ask just a follow-up on the bookings strength in the quarter, you noted that renewal rates were tracking towards the high end of historical levels. Does that imply that renewals were primarily behind the strength in unearned in the quarter? Or did you also see an uptick in new customer billings?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It was a bit of both. Certainly, the renewals was very strong, as you point out. I think that was the majority of it, but also we saw good acceptance on the new side as well. The field did a fabulous job in the fourth quarter and really got out there. I think they had some visibility and some good products to sell, and I think they took the opportunity to do a great job, both with existing and new customers.  

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Credit Suisse.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: I had one follow-up question on just spending for FY 2007. I just wanted to get a little bit more color on what your expectations around for CapEx, and just specifically maybe over a couple-year period, should we see a material change in terms of how you look at CapEx as you build out data center infrastructure for a lot of your online services?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, CapEx is going up, and we certainly talked about that externally. We will see an increase year over year of around $600 million to $700 million on CapEx, but that's covering CapEx of all nature. So there's not only in the MSN area, which is probably the one that people are most interested in, but it's also general facilities CapEx.  

In the MSN area, year on year, we are probably looking at an increase of around -- depending on some of the decisions we're going to make -- $200 million to $300 year on year. That is building the infrastructure that we believe is necessary for the future of the business. So we will be building capacity that we not only need next year, but also starting to build capacity for future years there afterwards as well.  

ADAM HOLT: I had one quick follow-up on Server & Tools, just to try to get a little bit more color around your expectations for Windows Server growth, and specifically any commentary you are seeing about growth rates relative to the Linux growth rate opportunity as well?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We're happy with the trends there. As I mentioned, we have grown, broadly speaking, in line with the market. We now have a product that can compete in the high-performance area, so we think that's a good opportunity. Some of the spending that we are looking at, some of the incremental spending that I bucketed into the growing and new areas, is targeted at the Windows Server area, in particular, in some of the markets where Linux is strong.  

So you're not necessarily going to see a benefit from that in fiscal year 2007, for the reasons we have talked about. But certainly, that's an area where we think there's a fabulous opportunity for us, and it's hence one of the reasons why we are investing in it.  

OPERATOR: Brendan Barnicle, Pacific Crest Securities.  

BRENDAN BARNICLE, ANALYST, PACIFIC CREST SECURITIES: I was wondering if you could give us any kind of breakdown in terms of your Client [for guidance achieving] benefits from China, particularly with Acer and Lenovo now standardizing on the Microsoft products?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We saw good growth in OEM units relative to PC units in the quarter, and we are predicting that general trend not necessarily to be as strong as it is out of the quarter, but going forward. It's too early to really say that there's a substantial difference as a result of those contracts. But our efforts -- anti-piracy, if it's generally, we think, adds, let's say, 1 to 2 percentage points on our year-by-year basis -- it might move around in the quarter, between OEM units and PC units. Now, clearly, the price point for some of those sales is slower, so it does drag out our average price, but in terms of our growth rate, it generally helps by about 1% to 2%.  

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Citigroup.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Regarding MSN, how should we think about the return to profitability? Is that more of a 2008 timeframe? If you could also just follow-up regarding adCenter, you mentioned it is online now in the US -- the rest of the world, your timing and when you expect that initiative will be fully up?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. In terms of MSN, it is full on the US. It's in UK in August. It's in France now. It's in Singapore now. We are not giving a particular schedule for when we will be 100% in the year, but clearly, it's in our line of sight. So it is not far off that we're going to have 100% of our business, anyway, on adCenter.  

What was the other half of your question? Sorry.  

BRENT THILL: Regarding profitability in MSN?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We have said, as I said in the previous quarter, that we do not expect MSN to be profitable in this fiscal year. So, by definition, therefore, it's later out than that. Based on the revenue guidance that we have given and some of the expense guidance that we have given, I imagine people will be able to get some shape of what we're looking at. But we see for MSN that fiscal year 2007 will be an investment year.  

OPERATOR: Laura Lederman, William Blair.  

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Can you talk about SQL Server growth? Is that going to be in line with the Server & Tools growth or higher? You have done so great in the database market for several years.  

Also, when you talk about the 50,000 new seats for CRM, could you talk about how much of that was hosted in the quarter versus how much was on premise?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: On the SQL Server side, we're looking at 35% growth. So it has been extremely successful at growing faster than the Server & Tools business overall. I'm not sure I want to put a number out for what that will look like going forward, but embedded inside our guidances is what we consider to be very good growth. We still think, from a price point of view, a quality point of view, it's a great product relative to its competitors, all the reason why we have been able to achieve market share growth in the past. There's no reason to assume that they are not going to continue in the future.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Could you repeat your posted question? We just didn't hear it.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: The 50,000 new users added for the CRM last quarter -- can give us a sense how much of that was hosted, how much of that was on premise? What's going on there in the mix?  

COLLEEN HEALY: We're delighted with that figure. Even stacking against competitors, it's nice volume for us. It's good momentum. It really does represent the choice that we are giving customers. It's not just hosted. It's not just a license for Microsoft. As you know, currently, you can buy a license from Microsoft, host it yourself. You can go to we are partners. They will host it for you. The 50,000 is inclusive of both of those. We are looking forward to being able to offer additional choice to consumers by hosting ourselves, really starting second quarter of calendar year 2007.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: If you look at the Business division growth of 9% to 10% for 2007, can you talk a little bit about what you see driving that and the components as well, just a little bit of granularity?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. That's for the division overall. Obviously, with Office 2007 coming along, that's a big driver, although that's more of the second half of the year. But also, as we see some of these enterprise agreements that we're signing flowing through the accounts, that will certainly help. Also, growth in the CRM and ERP products, so the old MBD segment will continue to grow very strongly, and that will help the overall division as well. So in particular, in the second half of the year, but general strength across all of those areas.  

We're going to have to cut off now, but I appreciate all your questions. I will hand it back to Colleen, and look forward to seeing a number of you in a week's time.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations website to close of business July 20, 2007. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-455-0436. Or for international calls, dial 203-369-1258. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business July 28, 2006. Thanks again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's Microsoft conference call. We thank you for your participation, and you may now disconnect.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060803e27k002mh
  


 HD
 Q3  2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,086 words
   PD
27 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Microsoft 2006 fiscal-year third-quarter earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the conference over to Ms. Colleen Healy, General Manager, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, GENERAL MANAGER, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I'm joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the third quarter of fiscal year 2006 and an overview of expectations for Q4. I will then provide detail around our third-quarter results and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the fourth quarter and a preliminary look at our current expectations for fiscal year '07. After that, we will take your questions.  

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft .  

Today's call is being recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on April 27, 2007.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially, because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management's discussion and analysis section of our 10-Q, our 2005 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that, please flip to slide four, where Chris will begin his comments.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. Thanks for taking the time to join us for today's call. I'm going to begin with the key points from our third quarter's performance and then take a look at quarter four and fiscal 2007. During the quarter, revenue growth accelerated to 13% from 9% in quarter two and 6% in quarter one. We had good market momentum of recently launched products, which remained strong, and we continued our execution on returning cash to shareholders.  

Our operating income was, however, lower than we had guided in the quarter, which can be attributed in the following order to, firstly, higher product costs associated with greater-than-expected Xbox 360 console shipments; second, faster execution on our services strategy; and, third, an acceleration of marketing and readiness programs for both launched and upcoming products, and also hiring of world-class employees for new product development.  

We continue to be pleased with the performance of our businesses, particularly in driving revenue. Revenue growth for our core businesses of Client, Information Worker and Server & Tools grew a combined 9% year over year for the quarter. We continue to see strong corporate demand and strength in PC and server hardware unit shipments.  

Revenue growth of 29% in the business groups that have had recent product launches demonstrates our ability to choose the right places to focus our innovation efforts and make investments. Some specific examples are SQL Server, which continues to post impressive year-over-year growth rates. Its quarter-three revenue growth, in excess of 30%, drove Server & Tools to its highest quarterly revenue growth rate for the year. Also, Home & Entertainment, Mobile & Embedded & Business Solutions all had good sales quarters. Combined, they posted over $0.5 billion of absolute revenue growth over the prior-year period, which equates to 68% growth. In the quarter, we also made significant strides in ramping up the supply of Xbox 360 consoles.  

We also continued our momentum on returning cash to shareholders, purchasing $4.9 billion worth of our stock, which brings us just over $15.5 billion of stock repurchases this fiscal year.  

Now, I would like to make a few points about how the fiscal fourth quarter is shaping up. First, we continue to expect strong double-digit revenue growth, driven by sustained momentum across all of our businesses. Q4 is usually a seasonally good quarter for revenue in our Information Worker, Server & Tools and Business Solutions groups, and we expect that trend to continue. We also expect increasing growth from Home & Entertainment with the improving supply of Xbox 360 consoles.  

Second, we will continue to accelerate the rate at which we invest in our business. Since we provided guidance three months ago, we have completed our senior-level strategy reviews and reassessed the strength of customer demand for our existing and potential new products. We see an increasing set of opportunities and, admittedly, challenges. And we're going to target them with investments that leverage our ability to win.  

As I mentioned on the last call, we're investing in our core businesses of Client, Information Worker and Server & Tools to prepare for the most significant wave of product launches in a decade. We are aggressively investing in MSN to continue to meet the competitive challenges we see and develop and deploy a world-class set of online services, and we are quickening the pace of development in a number of high-growth new business areas. I will discuss these investments later in the call.  

With that overview, I would like to turn the call over to Colleen for more details on the quarter, and then I will provide you with more details on our fourth quarter and a preliminary outlook for fiscal year 2007.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. As Chris mentioned, the accelerating revenue growth thus far in fiscal year '06 resulted in 13% growth during the quarter, which was driven by customer demand for our new products as well as healthy PC and server hardware sales. Specifically during the quarter, revenue was 10.9 billion, consistent with guidance entering the quarter. Operating income was 3.9 billion, which includes 397 million of legal charges and was lower than our guidance. Earnings per share were $0.29, which includes $0.03 for legal charges. And we returned over 5.8 billion to shareholders through stock repurchases and dividends.  

I will highlight drivers of the strong revenue performance during the quarter, as well as outline the areas of incremental costs and investments. I will start by discussing topline financial and business momentum points, and I will follow up with revenue performance for each of the business groups. Then I will discuss operating expenses, and I will wrap up with an overview of operating income performance, as well as balance sheet and cash flow information. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.  

Revenue growth this quarter was driven by strong business and consumer market momentum for our new products. Server & Tools had yet another outstanding quarter, growing over 16%. Home & Entertainment grew 85% as Xbox sales more than doubled, and MED and MBS grew 46% and 21%, respectively, on robust demand for our Windows Mobile and Microsoft Dynamics product lines. Taken together, these four businesses grew revenue 29% and delivered roughly 75% of our absolute revenue growth for the quarter. We were also very pleased with the continued strength in PC shipments for the quarter, which resulted in Client revenue growth of 8%.  

The IT spending environment was largely in line with our expectations. As mentioned, PC hardware and server market growth remains robust. Demand was generally healthy across all customer segments, and from a regional perspective, EMEA and emerging markets continued to be relatively strong. We estimate PC market growth during the quarter at 12 to 13%, which was in line with our expectations three months ago. Consistent with the past several quarters, consumer PC shipment growth outpaced business shipments, and emerging market growth continued to significantly outpaced mature markets. PC unit demand was broad-based regionally, with double-digit growth rates in all geographies except for North America and Japan.  

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was around 35% for OEMs, 27% for multi-year licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. This mix is different from the prior year, as a result of strong growth in our Home & Entertainment business and a shift from license only to multi-year licensing agreements. We had good results overall, from a volume licensing perspective, with strong renewals on enterprise agreements. In addition, select and open annuity results for the quarter were very strong relative to non-annuity licensing.  

As a result of these robust annuity licensing results, our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter at $8.9 billion, which was a little higher than we had anticipated, and up 12% over the same period in prior year. Our contracted not billed balance at the end of March was lower sequentially and continued to exceed $9 billion. Taking into account our reported revenue and changes in the unearned and contracted not billed balances, you will find that our bookings growth for the quarter approached 15% overall and in excess of 10% for our core businesses of Client, Information Worker and Server & Tools.  

Now, let's work our way through the P&L. Revenue growth for the quarter was negatively impacted by 1 percentage point due to foreign exchange rates. Breaking this down by business segment, Client revenue grew 8%, driven by OEM revenue growth of 10%, offset by a 6% decline in commercial and retail licensing. The OEM revenue growth resulted from 16% license unit growth.  

As you have seen in previous quarters, the difference between OEM license unit growth and revenue growth is caused primarily by three factors -- one, the shift in channel mix towards larger OEMs with volume pricing; two, growing volume in emerging markets; and, three, the relative strength of the consumer segment of the PC market, which results in higher volumes of Windows XP Home Edition and Media Center Edition relative to total units sold.  

Consistent with the relative strength in the consumer segment of the market and the growing momentum behind Windows Media Center, we continue to see a change within the sales mix of our Premium Edition operating system licensed to OEMs. While OEM premium mix of 53% was up 4 percentage points from the prior year, a larger percentage of Premium Edition sales were made to consumers purchasing Windows Media Center, which carries a lower price relative to Windows Professional.  

During the quarter, we made strides against piracy, as the pace of Windows unit sales outpaced the overall PC hardware market. The Company also recently signed a number of agreements to promote the use of Microsoft-licensed software with four of the leading PC OEMs serving the Chinese market. Server & Tools delivered double-digit revenue growth for the 15th consecutive quarter, as the Windows server system enjoyed broad adoption.  

SQL Server is a hit with businesses, growing in excess of 30% this quarter. SQL Server revenue growth continues to dramatically outpace offerings from competitors in the database market. The value proposition SQL Server 2005 offers to businesses to enable it to simply and powerfully integrate, analyze and report their data is outstanding. Customers including enterprises are increasingly selecting SQL as the database to run their most demanding workloads for mission-critical applications.  

Information Worker revenue grew 5% to $2.9 billion, driven by growth in all channels. We continue to see an increased shift to our annuity offerings when customers choose to license our Office products. We attribute this to customers' desire to acquire both Office 2003 and Office 2007 upon its release later this calendar year. We have announced the Office 2007 suite lineup and pricing to customers. We have also rolled out the beta of Office Live. We have been pleased with the great response Office Live has received, with over 50,000 subscribers actively participating in the beta.  

MBS revenue was $216 million, which was higher than our expectations and up 21% from the prior year, driven by 28% growth in license revenues, primarily in the ERP product line. We are happy with the traction that our Dynamics ERP and CRM products are receiving in the marketplace.  

March marked a couple of important milestones for MBS. First, we had record turnout at our customer and partner event in Dallas, with over 5,500 customers and partners in attendance, which was over 1,000 more attendees than last year. Second, we also began our first national brand advertising campaign in a number of major publications. MSN revenue was $561 million and down 3%, with advertising growth of 7%, offset by an expected decline of 31% in narrowband access revenue. Display advertising revenue grew for the quarter, led by strong growth in advertising on our home page, instant messaging and Hotmail properties. Advertisers are finding that the critical mass of users on MSN and Live makes those properties the place they need to be.  

On the search advertising front, we made good progress during the quarter in transitioning our business from Yahoo!'s platform to our own platform. MSN Ad Center (technical difficulty).  

Broad strength across the Windows Mobile and Windows Embedded product lines led to our fourth consecutive quarter of MED revenue growth in excess of 40%.  

In particular, momentum behind our Windows Mobile product line continued to accelerate in the third quarter. Licenses for connected phone-enabled devices grew in excess of 85%, driven by device launches from leading manufacturing partners and mobile operators such as Palm, HTC, UTStarcom, Verizon Wireless, Cingular and T-Mobile. Also, mobile operators shipping Windows mobile-based devices increased from 93 in the prior quarter to over 115 in Q3.  

Xbox revenue growth of 133% drove Home & Entertainment results for the quarter. We extended our market leadership position in next-generation gaming and turned a major corner in the quarter with our Xbox 360 console supply. We are now in nearly 30 countries, and console supply is ramping significantly. The number of games available for the platform continues to increase, with 80 expected to be available by the end of June. And we are seeing tremendous momentum behind our Xbox Live service. We're building on our strong early start and becoming increasingly optimistic in our console outlook for shipments.  

Consumer demand for Xbox 360 consoles remains very strong. Console supply increase throughout the quarter, due to improving component supplies and the addition of Celestica to Wistron and Flextronics in manufacturing. As a result, Q3 shipments of 1.7 million consoles were heavily weighted to the month of March.  

Attach rates remain at record levels, although revenue in the quarter was slightly below forecast, due to the back-end nature of the console sales. According to NPD, our life-to-date attach in the US through March for software and peripherals was 4.5 and 3 per console, respectively, higher than any other gaming console at this point in its lifecycle. Despite a relatively small installed base, three of the top ten selling video games in the US in March were for the Xbox 360 platform.  

Xbox Live momentum continues on a number of fronts. Over half of all Xbox 360 consoles sold connected to the service either through Silver or Gold Chair memberships. Xbox Live Marketplace reached 10 million downloads of digital content in less than five months, and there have been over 4 million downloads from Xbox Live Arcade since launch. The momentum and success of Xbox 360 has resulted in a faster-than-expected transmission to next-generation gaming. As a result, our Xbox Version 1 software revenues in the quarter continued to decline and were softer than we expected.  

Lastly, we extended our leadership position in IPTV software with Deutsche Telekom's announcement that it will launch its IPTV services across Germany later this year, using Microsoft IPTV Edition platform. This is our largest IPTV agreement in Europe to date and our second largest worldwide.  

Now, for the rest of the income statement and the balance sheet. While revenue increased 13% during the quarter, cost of revenue increased 49%, due primarily to Xbox 360 console volumes. The majority of the variance from our forecast was driven by strong Xbox 360 unit shipments, with the rest due in higher console costs.  

Other operating income -- other operating expenses increased 427 million or 10% excluding legal charges. This was also higher than our expectations, due primarily to the following drivers.  

First, we invested more aggressively in our MSN business to enhance the service experience of our users, our advertisers and our partners, as well as to increase our broad collection of assets to position ourselves for monetization over the long term. We are focused on building upon our strong momentum in display advertising, making enhancements to our ad platform, improving search and augmenting physical infrastructure.  

Second, we increased investment in marketing and readiness programs across a number of different areas for recently launched products, as well as future product launches. This investment included global advertising and increased hiring for field sales and marketing positions, specifically and our enterprise and small and medium business sales forces.  

At lastly, we continue to hire aggressively in support of R&D, focused on new product development, examples of which include Longhorn Server, Exchange 12 and Communication Services.  

Even with these investments, if you set aside legal charges and the Home & Entertainment results, which are disproportionately impacted by negative margin console sales, you'll find that operating margins remained stable during the quarter, with operating income growth in line with revenue growth. Investment income and other totaled 427 million, and our effective tax rate was 31%. Diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 10.4 billion, down 5% from the prior year as the result of execution against our share repurchase program.  

I would like to now provide a brief summary of the cash-flow statement and the balance sheet. We generated over 4.5 billion in cash from operations, a 9% decline from prior year, due primarily to the timing and magnitude of legal settlement payments. Of the over 5.8 billion returned to shareholders during the quarter, 4.9 billion was for the repurchase of 181 million shares, of which $4.7 billion [doubled] in the quarter. We had about 6.4 billion remaining of our $30 billion approved repurchase program at the end of the quarter.  

Cash and equivalents and short-term investments of $34.8 billion were up slightly from the second quarter, due to securities pledged as collateral under our securities lending program. The related balances due to the program can be seen in securities lending payable in current liabilities, largely offset by its corresponding amount in short-term investments.  

So, in summary, we delivered accelerating double-digit revenue growth, driven by new product momentum and healthy PC and server hardware shipments. We achieved double-digit bookings growth in our core businesses in front of a big year of product launches. Excluding the results of Home & Entertainment and legal charges, operating income grew in line with revenue, even with the big investments necessary to drive future revenue growth. And we repurchased $4.9 billion in company stock, the second-largest quarterly share repurchase in company history.  

Chris will now provide you with our expectations for Q4 and fiscal 2007.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Colleen. So, I am going to spend my remaining time on the call giving you a view of what we are expecting for the fourth quarter, followed by a preliminary snapshot of fiscal 2007. Please keep in mind that all of our growth figures that I will be using reflect year-over-year growth to the comparable period, unless otherwise noted.  

Before giving specific financial guidance, let me outline some of the key assumptions that we've used for the fourth quarter. We estimate that for the fourth quarter, PC unit growth should be 10 to 11%. Our expectations for growth in the total server hardware market remain unchanged at 11 to 13% for the full fiscal year, and we're assuming that changes in foreign exchange rates will not have a major impact on our year-over-year growth rates in our forecast. Also, we continue to expect overall IT spending and our ability to participate in the marketplace to remain healthy.  

So for some detailed guidance, we expect fourth-quarter revenue of 11.5 to $11.7 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 13 to 15%. Revenue by business group is as follows. For Client, we expect revenue growth of 7 to 8% for the fourth quarter. We expect OEM units to grow roughly in line with the market, and we expect commercial and retail business growth to lag overall growth.  

In Server & Tools, we're raising our expected revenue growth to 17 to 18% for the fourth quarter. We expect that the strong customer acceptance of SQL Server in the last two quarters will continue in the fourth quarter.  

Information Worker revenue should grow 5 to 6% for the fourth quarter. We expect the increased annuity mix in our billings to continue as we move closer to the launch of office 2007. And we will continue to look forward to releasing a broad public beta of Office 2007 this spring.  

For Microsoft Business Solutions, we expect revenue growth to be between 11% and 13% for the fourth quarter. Our new Dynamics products have been met with great customer and partner enthusiasm, and we look forward to carrying that momentum into Q4 and beyond. Our new Dynamics branding campaign started in March and should provide good momentum going forward.  

For MSN, we're expecting revenue to decline 4 to 5% for the fourth quarter. This reflects continued decreases in our access business, continued transition to Ad Center for delivering our paid search results, offset by growth in display revenue.  

Mobile & Embedded Devices revenue should grow between 15 and 25% for the fourth quarter, driven by the availability of new devices based on Windows Mobile 5.0.  

Home & Entertainment revenue is expected to grow 85% to 110% for the fourth quarter. This reflects a reduction in the implied revenue guidance we gave you in January, due primarily to lower expectations for the Xbox 1 business.  

We continue to see very strong demand for Xbox 360 consoles, and we are making good progress in our ability to supply that demand. Because of this increased optimism and strong console shipments in Q3, we are typing our previously announced fiscal year shipment guidance of 4.5 to 5.5 million consoles to the top end of that range, to 5.0 to 5.5 million consoles.  

Given the growing mix shift to annuity billings in front of key product launches in fiscal year '07, we are increasing our unearned guidance, and now expect unearned revenue to finish the year up 10 to 12%, up 2 percentage points from where we guided in January. We continue to estimate that our contracted not billed balance will finish the year above $9 billion. So when you combine our overall revenue growth within the net increase in unearned and contracted not billed, you'll see that we are delivering strong year-over-year booking performance for the Company in fiscal 2006.  

Operating income should be between 4 billion and $4.2 billion, representing 34% to 40% growth over the prior year, or 7 to 11% growth if you exclude legal charges of $756 million taken in that year-ago quarter.  

For fully-diluted earnings per share, we expect $0.30 per share for the fourth quarter, and expect to have an effective tax rate of 31% for quarter four.  

So with quarter four guidance, we arrive at the following expectations for the full fiscal year 2006 -- revenue between 44.0 to $44.2 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 11%; operating income of 16.6 to $16.8 billion, including certain legal charges of $361 million in Q1 and $397 million in Q3. For fully-diluted GAAP earnings per share, we expect $1.22 for fiscal year '06. If you were to adjust for certain legal charges of $0.02 a share in quarter one and $0.03 a share in quarter three and the tax benefit of $0.01 a share in quarter two, earnings per share would be $1.26.  

[Net], the quarter-four guidance is below the implied numbers we provided in January, and I would like to walk through three main drivers of the guidance change, which is split broadly evenly into the following areas.  

First, we will experience higher product costs in order to enable us to deliver as many Xbox 360 consoles to the market as quickly as possible. We are making a strategic choice to produce and sell the maximum possible number of consoles to stretch our lead of installed base in this next generation over Sony. This will, however, cost us some income growth in the short term. In Q3, we addressed console supply challenges through securing components and improving manufacturing yields. These additional costs are not expected to continue beyond quarter four.  

Second, marketing, partner readiness and increased hiring in our sales force for new and soon-to-be-released products will secure their success and drive momentum. These efforts are underway and will continue in quarter four and into fiscal 2007. Examples include an increased pace of Xbox 360 marketing to coincide with increased supply, working with our OEM partners on prelaunch Windows Vista readiness programs and continuing hiring of Information Worker solution specialists.  

Third, we intend to quicken the pace of development on businesses where we can drive growth and build meaningful share. This includes such areas as services, unified communications and collaboration, business intelligence, security and high-performance computing. We also intend to gain growth step-ups through acquisitions. We have accelerated the pace of targeted acquisitions and [associated] the costs are included here.  

In regards to services, we plan to scale global sales resources for Ad Center through the [Develop the Ad] platform and increase our customer support activities to optimize the experience for our advertising partners. We will also further develop and extend our search platform. This includes not only continuing to improve relevance, but also to move into critical developing areas such as local and mobile search. We will continue to add new, significant content for our MSN and Live portals, while utilizing acquisitions to quickly fill out technology and other offerings, and increase our investments in infrastructure to ensure that we can deliver world-class performance to our customers around the world for Windows Live, MSN.com, Xbox Live and Office Live.  

We have been making good progress in various aspects of our services plan, such as the pace of transition to ads served by Ad Center and the continued increase in users, particularly on Hotmail, Spaces and Messengers, where we added approximately 40 million Hotmail and 65 million Messenger accounts over the last year.  

We're delighted to have Steve Berkowitz join the team to run the online business group. Steve was recently was a CEO of ask.com and brings to Microsoft a deep industry knowledge on how to successfully run an online business, including both search and advertising. We are looking to his contributions to help shape and drive our strategy in this space.  

Although we expect that the investment areas for our services plan that I highlighted earlier will defer operating profitability for MSN in fiscal year '07, they will position us to better monetize our online businesses over the long term, through building volume of both searches and page views, using Ad Center to offer advertisers a superior platform from which to coordinate their marketing efforts and building the volume of ads run through Ad Center by increasing the number of advertisers on our platform and expanding Ad Center geographically.  

I also want to highlight that our strategy in services is not competing against any single competitor in any one area, but to deliver value-added services across a broad array of scenarios. The online services market is clearly very competitive but has enormous potential for growth. We intend to compete in this space for the long term, and feel that our investments today will drive future success.  

So at this point, I would like to discuss our preliminary view of fiscal 2007 as well. Our guidance represents our best current thinking about fiscal '07, and is subject to change as we finish our planning cycle during our fourth quarter. Consistent with our past practice, we are not providing specific business group assumptions beyond our fiscal-year guidance. We will provide more details, including any new initiatives, as we typically do, on our next quarterly earnings call in July and all the strategic background at our financial analyst meeting in late July.  

Our current fiscal 2007 revenue forecast is 49.5 to $50.5 billion, which represents growth of 12 to 14% over fiscal 2006, continuing the excellent '06 momentum. In absolute dollars, that represents between 5 in $6 billion of (indiscernible) revenue year over year. Our expectation is for operating income of 18.7 to $19.3 billion, and fully-diluted earnings per share of $1.36 to $1.41, representing growth of 11 to 16% on a GAAP basis. If you were to remove certain legal charges and tax benefits from our '06 numbers, fiscal 2007 EPS growth would be 8 to 12%.  

Now, let me outline a few key items that are necessary to understand our fiscal '07 guidance. First, at this early stage, we expect both the PC hardware market and the server hardware market growth rates to moderate from the growth rates we have seen this year.  

Second, we are not forecasting any significant changes in foreign exchange rates. Actual foreign exchange rate movements will cause deviations from our forecast.  

Third, we expect to see enterprise agreement renewal and discounting trends to be within their historical ranges.  

Fourth, these figures assume the launch of Windows Vista and office 2007 to Vista's customers before the end of the calendar year 2006, with consumer availability in January. This will be the first time since calendar year 1995 that we have had simultaneous launches of these two flagship products. We're making considerable marketing and sales investments in these launches and, to a lesser extent, the launch of Exchange 12. Fifth, we plan to continue to make significant investments that include the areas I mentioned with respect to Q4, such as continue to execute on our services vision, aggressively competing with our Xbox franchise and building new and existing business in high-growth markets.  

Finally, this guidance assumes we finish out the remaining $6.4 billion of our buyback program no later than December 2006. And we have not built in any additional amounts beyond that.  

So I would like to close my prepared remarks today by putting this year into a broader context. Today, we believe we face the largest array of opportunities for growth and innovation the Company has ever seen. Software and software-driven services are playing an increasingly important role in shaping customer experiences at work and at home. Progress made in such things as high bandwidth availability, lower computer and storage costs, hardware device innovation and improvements in processing [power] provide us with the opportunity to deliver software and services that enable seamless customer experiences in the area of services, entertainment, mobility and security, just to name a few. These markets will grow quickly over the next three to five years, as will the opportunity for us to innovate and increase our income for the benefit of shareholders.  

We appreciate that every time we make an investment decision, it is traded between the short-term earnings and the long-term gain. However, we are willing to make those trade-offs, and believe that we have a unique opportunity at this part of the product cycle to drive substantial long-term growth. Given the level of opportunity and activity, we look forward to having a very rich discussion with you on our plans for growth at our financial analyst meeting in July.  

So with that, I would like to hand the call back to Colleen so we can take some of your questions. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat the instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Steve Mahedy, Banc of America Securities.  

STEVE MAHEDY, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: My question would be relative to fiscal year '07 guidance. You mentioned the moderation in the PC and server markets. Could you just give us a little detail on how you formulated the growth rates that you're assuming, and then also a tighter range on topline revenue relative to bottom-line -- is there some flexibility on your spending during the course of the year, which perhaps would put us at the higher end of the EPS range?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In terms of PC market, we don't give out numbers at this stage, obviously. We have seen a moderation in the PC unit growth rate through the course of this year, so we were seeing 15 to 17% or thereabouts in quarter one, and it came down to 14 to 15, then 12 to 13, and in the fourth quarter, as I just mentioned, we're talking about 10 to 11. So we have seen it come off, if you like, strong mid double digits to just [about double-digit] rates. So we're not expecting the trend to significantly weaken from that, but we expect that sort of moderating number that would come out of the year to be more like what we expect for next year. So that's the basis of our expectations going into the new year.  

In terms of the tightening of the range, to some extent it is influenced, clearly, by things like Xbox, where we could have quite a big sales variation, but not necessarily a big operating income variation, to the extent that the contribution from that business will not be as significant driving down to operating income. So that's one of the reasons why you're seeing that variation. In terms of could we see expenses (indiscernible) being at the top end of the range, absolutely. Those are some of the decisions that we will have to make during the course of the year and as we round out our budgeting cycle going into the fiscal year.  

STEVE MAHEDY: And you mentioned the PC moderation is clear and you can see the correlation there. However, in contrast, in the moderating server market, it still looks like you continue to see strong results there, given the product cycle. Is there a little bit of a detachment relative to what's happening in the server market, given your ability to gain more share there?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Again, it's quite a different trend, in terms of our sales relative to the server market. This is our sales relative to the PC market. So there's a lot of moving parts in the PC market -- for example, our progress on piracy, the mix shift between consumer and business, and then the other moving part is our commercial and retail sales. So all of those go into our expectation of Client revenue growth relative to PC growth. In the server market, we tend to expect our sales of underlying Windows Server to follow more closely the market. And then we have been able to and we certainly would hope to expect to be able to pick up market share in things like SQL Server.  

COLLEEN HEALY: We have been pretty consistent throughout the fiscal year thus far, expecting 11 to 13% hardware growth. The numbers directionally that we have given you for fiscal year '07, we feel, are right. And it looks like in terms of third-party data, we're pretty much in line.  

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I was wondering if we could maybe talk a little bit about the margin structure and some of the add-backs for this quarter. In the legal expense add-back for this quarter, are you adding back a reserve you might have taken related to the European EUR2 million a day fine? And is there any build-in for that fine into your guidance?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We don't specifically comment on individual ones, but if I can put it this way, there's no change from our previous position. So there's nothing inside the legal reserve as a result of a change.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: There is nothing inside the legal --  

CHRIS LIDDELL: You asked whether there is anything in the legal reserve that results in a potential fine. All I'm saying is there's nothing in there -- there's no delta in that figure. I cannot comment on whether we had it in originally, because we don't give that level of detail out. But to the extent we did or didn't, it hasn't changed.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: So your guidance for next year -- does it include reserving EUR2 million a day?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Same comment -- there's no change in our previous assumption.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: So absent that, you see pretty substantial margin compression for next year, yet you have been talking about pulling forward expenses for Vista into the last couple of quarters and certainly into Q4 here. How do you reconcile those two things? It seems like you're spending fairly aggressively, very aggressively, through next year and not seeing leverage to your revenue acceleration.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: At this stage, as you know, we're not giving business-by-business shape, so your comment is correct at the company level. I will point back to some of our prepared remarks. Clearly, we have decided to aggressively invest in this next year in a number of areas, and they do add up. Broadly, across the areas of marketing to launch new product, so clearly with Vista and Office 2007 coming, we will be spending in that area to ensure the success of that, building on some of the other businesses in the area. So Xbox 360 -- we still see a big year in fiscal year '07 for that. IPTV will launch. We will have some marketing spend associated with that. Windows Mobile, we think, will potentially have a big year next year. Dynamics branding and then overall corporate advertising -- some of the [people-ready] work that you've seen.  

So that's in the new products area. In terms of new opportunities, things that we are building which will be revenue-generating beyond fiscal year '07 -- the areas, again, that I talked about in prepared -- communications collaboration, security and management, high-performance computing and also some of acquisitions we are doing.  

And lastly, and we have foreshadowed this previously, the services strategy and, in particular, MSN is an area that we expect to invest aggressively next year. So you are correct. The net result of all of that, as we are guiding, will mean that we will not see an accompanying level of operating income growth equal to revenue growth. But we will still see, in our view, extremely good revenue growth. The combination of this year and next fiscal year with our guidance adds up to 10 to $11 billion of revenue growth.  

So in our view, we are investing. We appreciate we're investing aggressively relative to some of your models, but we believe it's the right thing to do, to drive what we think is extremely good growth going forward.  

OPERATOR: Adam Holt, JPMorgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Another question on the margins, if I could. Understanding you're not giving quarterly guidance, is it safe to assume the headcount adds and a lot of the marketing expenditure is going to be front-end loaded for next year? And secondly, are you making any assumptions around any kind of customer incentives during the holiday season to maybe give consumers that buy PCs Vista upgrade rights?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sorry, I will have to give you the blanket answer that we're not going to give a lot of details about the shape of next year. I apologize for that, but that's the sort of stance. It's hard to half answer your question without doing that. Clearly, we have -- if I can talk about this fiscal year, where we are giving some numbers out, clearly, we have front-ended, if you like, some of the hiring associated with some of the product development that we see in future years. I'm certainly comfortable saying that; you can see that in our headcount numbers.  

And I will comment on the positive aspect of that. There has certainly been a lot of commentary in the time that I've been at the Company about retention of people. What we are finding is we are having an extremely good time and being extremely successful in the market in hiring the people that we want. So the good news from my point of view is whilst it's a front-end cost, it's a good sign from an employment point of view.  

In terms of the second half of your question, about tech guarantees, we're not commenting on that. Clearly, we will look at the shape of previous releases in terms of what is a sensible thing to do for our customers and partners as we get closer to the release. But with that being nine-odd months away, we are really not commenting at this stage on exactly what we might do or when we might do it.  

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Not to beat a dead horse here, but looking at the operating margin, is this a change in the strategy for the Company where, over the next few years, we might see revenue accelerate from these new product launches that you have talked about, but that the Company is willing to sacrifice earnings growth? And I'm not just talking about fiscal year '07, but a changing strategy where you are just going to keep reinvesting back, where earnings growth is going to be below revenue growth and you're not going to get the type of margin leverage that I think people expected when the CFOs of all the different business units were put into place?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I can't give you specific sort of directional guidance for '08 and '09. I think we will talk more at the financial analyst meeting about our strategy and how that might play out. Again, if I can just talk to what we have put out today, clearly, from our point of view, we have made a strategic decision with respect to next year that, given the set of opportunities and the revenue growth potential that we see, we're willing to make that trade-off next year, and we've been willing to make the trade-off not only next year but to get ahead of it, if you like, in the third and fourth quarter as well.  

So you are correct in that sense. I don't want to say or extrapolate at this stage and say you can necessarily expect that in fiscal year '08 and '09. We will talk more strategically when we get together and talk about strategy in July.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Chris, as I look at next year, the revenues look good. So I think that we, collectively, as analysts, have captured the opportunity for Vista on the revenue side. But the expenses, I've got to tell you, we're not that bad in forecasting expenses. Your expenses are about $2.4 billion more than I have estimated. And I don't know if you are just not ready to talk yet about the online businesses that you're building, but I don't think Xbox mix makes that big a difference in my model. I don't think spending a couple hundred million dollars more launching products makes that big a difference.  

There's something like really big here that I'm not sure we have quite put our fingers on yet, but it sounds like you are building a Google or building a Yahoo! inside the Company. And Ray Ozzie in this Fortune article said, this is real expensive. It's going to cost billions of dollars. I didn't know it was going to cost a couple billion dollars in '07, but that's what looks like to me. It looks more like you are kind of really ramping up your online business and the decisions, then, to take a lot of the benefits of the product cycle that we're going to get next year and just plow that right back into the business to kind of gear up for battle in the online market. I'm just not sure if I'm missing something, but that's the way it comes across to me.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm certainly happy to address that. In terms of your 2.4, I probably wouldn't get to the same number as that -- I don't, obviously, have visibility into your model, but relative to the starting base of fiscal year '06. I would characterize it as being a broad-based approach across multiple fronts. I don't think there's any Trojan Horse there that we haven't talked about that is sitting below the surface that we don't want to talk about. I would say, to the extent there's a difference between your expectations of where we are coming in, I would list the sort of 12 to 15 things that I mentioned before, and we would be accelerating the pace in virtually all of those, relative to, possibly, your expectations.  

So there are some big numbers there; that is certainly true. And there's certainly some big potential spending and opportunities that we foresee in the MSN Windows Live area. So that is certainly true. But we're not building into our guidance things that we're not talking about.  

RICK SHERLUND: Are we going to talk more at the July analyst meeting about the online business?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Absolutely. Yes, that is an absolutely key and fundamental part of our strategy going forward, so yes, you can expect to hear a lot about that.  

RICK SHERLUND: Because there is a lot going on there. I keep hearing more about it, but we haven't really had an articulation yet of what's going on. So we should anticipate that maybe we'll have a better understanding of what's going on there at the July analyst meeting?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. I'm certainly happy to take that feedback, firstly. And secondly, we had foreseen that we would spend a reasonably high proportion of the time talking about that, to the extent that it's a new area, perhaps relative to some of the other ones that you have heard about in previous [fams].  

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.  

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Just following up on Rick's question earlier, the numbers certainly look big on that incremental expense side. I'm just curious to see if a material component of that incremental spending is from stock-based compensation. Because the times when you would publicly disclose that figure, as in fiscal '05, it was running at 2.4 billion. So should we be thinking that there is another perhaps 1 billion or maybe even $0.5 billion or so of stock-based compensation that is being factored into your operating income? Because we do hear about the enormous amounts of money being paid to hire some of the supersharp programmers in the Wall Street Journal, et cetera. So is that some behind your thinking, or maybe not? If you can clarify, that will be great.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's definitely not to do with increasing pay for the CFO, not from the billions, anyway. No, there's nothing that we are building in that is significant from a stock-based compensation point of view. We only disclose the numbers historically rather than forecast, but you will not be -- you shouldn't expect to be surprised there and anything new or substantial. Clearly, we are hiring a large number of people, so you will see the expense associated with those people. But you won't see huge fundamental shifts in our pay structure.  

KASH RANGAN: So I guess, when you report your operating income on a segment basis, we should start to see where exactly these investments are going in and how they are tracking the way you explained the 15 different initiatives or whatnot, right?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: That's correct. Yes, you will. And we'll continue to try and be as transparent as possible, certainly, in retrospect.  

OPERATOR: Robert Breza, RBC Capital Markets.  

ROBERT BREZA, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I'm wondering, Chris, can you talk a little bit about maybe how we should think about maybe the shape of '07, just in terms of the product releases, knowing that the enterprise (technical difficulty). Is there anything you can qualitatively tell us (technical difficulty) look at the December quarter versus the March quarter?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sorry, you just came in and out a little bit on your question there. But I got most of it, about the shape of the year. No, I'm sorry. I have to go back to what I said before, which is we are really sticking at this stage at a yearly rate. I mean, clearly, with the launches coming for business availability in December and consumer availability in January, there's going to be some implications associated with that. We're already seeing some patterns of change, for example, in our Information Worker area. We're seeing a shift from license to annuity, and that could well be in anticipation of the benefits of Office 2007. We will have some quarterly changes, almost certainly, associated with Xbox as a result of holiday season sales. So it will be some reasonably big quarterly trends that you can expect to see. But, I'm sorry, you will have to wait until July for us to give you the visibility into that.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations website through close of business April 27, 2007. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-454-2121, or for international calls, dial 203-369-1241. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business May 5, 2006. Thanks again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods
   NS
ntra : Transcript | c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060511e24r001l7
  


 HD
 Q2  2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,977 words
   PD
26 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Microsoft 2006 fiscal-year second-quarter earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, Senior Director, Investor Relations. Please go ahead.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Di Valerio, Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. Scott will then provide detail around our second-quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the third quarter and full fiscal year. After that, we will take your questions.  

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks, in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations website at  www.Microsoft.com/MSFT .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future uses or recordings. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations website. Our replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on January 26, 2007.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially, because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management's discussion and analysis section of our 10-Q or 2005 Forms 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, please flip to slide number four, where Chris's comments will begin.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Colleen, and good afternoon everyone. Thanks for joining us on today's call. I would like to begin by highlighting the key points from our second-quarter's performance and take a look at the rest of fiscal year 2006.  

We had a very good second quarter, with highlights being three extremely successful product launches, good growth in our core businesses and delivery of operating income and earnings per share in line with expectations. We had been looking forward to this quarter as the kickoff to the broadest multi-year product cycle in the Company's history. And looking back on quarter two, we're off to an excellent start.  

During the quarter, we had significant one-time and successful launches of products for both consumers and businesses. The quarter's new product launches created a lot of justifiable excitement in the marketplace. For example, the highly anticipated Xbox 360 had a phenomenal reception by consumers. Demand for the product has been high, and we look forward to increasing the console availability in the second half of the fiscal year with the addition of our third manufacturing partner. Just as eagerly anticipated and well-received by business customers was SQL Server 2005 and Dynamics CRM 3.0.  

During the quarter, we positioned ourselves well for the continued momentum and product pipeline success with two community technology preview releases of Windows Vista, the initial beta releases of office 12 and Exchange 12 and many beta versions of our Window Live offerings.  

Our core software businesses enjoyed healthy growth, driven by strong demand from corporate customers and strong PC and server unit shipments. Growth in client revenue in a robust PC environment was driven by consumer strength during the holiday sales season.  

A real highlight for the quarter was that Server & Tools continues its impressive string of double-digit revenue growth. SQL Server generated over 20% year-over-year revenue growth during the quarter, significantly outpacing the database market and our expectations for our launch quarter. SQL Server 2005 is quite simply an outstanding product, meeting the needs of customers, and we were delighted to have seen the faster-than-expected adoption at and after the launch.  

We were pleased to see both Business Solutions and Mobile & Embedded Devices continue their recent momentum, and in both cases they achieved operating profitability this quarter. While we do not expect them to remain consistently profitable for the remainder of fiscal 2006, their strong revenue and profit performance reinforces their trajectory to exit emerging status sometime in fiscal 2007.  

Lastly, during the quarter, we continued our momentum on returning cash to shareholders. We announced a $0.01 increase in our quarterly dividend, equating to a 12.5% increase, and we purchased $7.7 billion worth of our stock, our largest-ever quarterly stock buyback.  

So overall, we're pleased with our performance in both Q2 and the first half of fiscal 2006.  

So now, I would like to make a few key points about how the rest of the fiscal year is shipping up. First, we continue to expect to double-digit revenue growth for fiscal 2006, driven by sustained momentum in our core software businesses and by strong demand for the Xbox 360. Second, we will continue to invest in our businesses. As we mentioned on the last call, we're investing in our core businesses of Client, Information Worker and Server & Tools for product launches. We will also continue to invest in MSN, in order to bring rich and compelling services and content to our users and a world-class advertising platform to our advertisers. I will discuss a little bit more about these investments in MSN later in the call.  

We are confident that we're making the right investments for products on the near-term horizon, as well as for initiatives and products that will benefit us longer-term. And even with these investments, we expect to deliver strong double-digit earnings growth for the second half of the year.  

So with those opening remarks, I would like to turn the call over to Scott for more details on the quarter, and then I will provide you with more details on the rest of the fiscal year.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, CORPORATE VP, OEM DIVISION, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. As Chris mentioned, Q2 was a good quarter overall, with revenues slightly below our guidance and bottom-line results largely in line with our expectations. During the quarter, revenue was a record $11.8 billion, up 9% from the prior year, driven by growth in our core software businesses and Home & Entertainment. Operating income was $4.7 billion, which is at the high end of our expectations entering the quarter, and driven by operating profitability in six of our seven business units.  

We delivered good earnings growth with earnings per share of $0.34. When adjusted for tax-related benefits realized in the quarter of $0.01 per share, this is also at the high end of our guidance. We kicked off a significant multiyear product cycle with launches of Xbox 360, SQL Server 2005, Dynamics CRM 3.0 and a host of other products. And lastly, we returned over $8.5 billion to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends.  

So, while revenue was slightly below our guidance, we had a successful quarter which I will highlight over the next several minutes. I will start by discussing topline financial and business momentum points, and will follow with the revenue performance at each of the business units. Then I'll wrap up with an overview of operating income performance, as well as balance sheet and cash flow information. All comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.  

Our core businesses had another good quarter. Overall revenue growth was driven by Server & Tools revenues, which grew 14% on the strength of SQL sales, and Client revenue growth of 8%, driven by strength in PC hardware shipments. Add in a good quarter by Information Worker, and our three largest businesses grew revenue by a combined 9%, representing $785 million in absolute revenue growth.  

Another key driver for the quarter was the launch of Xbox 360, which drove Home Entertainment revenue growth of 13%. We are also pleased with the continuing momentum in our Microsoft Business Solutions and Mobile & Embedded businesses, which grew 17 and 40%, respectively.  

The IT spending environment was also largely in line with our expectations. The clear highlights were strong demand in the Enterprise and continued strength in the PC and server hardware market growth. Demand was generally healthy across all customer segments, and from a regional perspective, EMEA and emerging markets were relatively strong.  

We estimate PC market growth during the quarter at 14 to 15%, which is stronger than we expected three months ago. A very strong holiday sales season resulted in consumer PC shipment growth outpacing business shipments for the third consecutive quarter. From a form factor perspective, growth in notebook PC shipments continues to outpace desktops. PC unit demand was broad-based regionally, with double-digit growth rates in all geographies except for North America and Japan. And emerging market growth rates continue to significantly outpace mature markets.  

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was generally consistent year over year, with roughly 35% from OEMs, 25% from multiyear licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. We had good results overall from a volume licensing perspective, with the strongest growth in Enterprise agreements, where our renewal experience remains within our historical range of 66 to 75%. Select and open annuity results for the quarter were also very good relative to non-annuity licensing.  

Our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter where we expected, at $8.8 billion. This is up slightly from the prior quarter, and represents an 11% increase over the prior year. The sequential change in unearned balance was impacted by the relatively small amount of multiyear contract value that was up for renewal in the quarter, relative to prior-year amounts. Our contracted not billed balance at the end of December was up sequentially, and now exceeds $9 billion.  

Before I get into the revenue details for each business group, I would like to point out that the foreign exchange rate impact on revenue was not meaningful to our overall revenue growth. So now, let's move on to a discussion of revenue by business segment.  

Client revenue grew 8%, driven by OEM revenue growth of 10%, offset by a 2% decline in commercial and retail licensing. The OEM revenue growth resulted from 15% license unit growth. The difference between OEM license unit growth and revenue growth is caused primarily by the shift in channel mix toward larger OEMs with volume pricing, growing volume in emerging markets and the relative strength of the consumer segment of the PC market, which results in higher volumes of Windows XP Home Edition and Media Center Edition relative to total units sold.  

As we discussed last quarter, and consistent with the relative strength in the consumer segment of the market, we continue to see a change within the sales mix of our premium edition operating systems license to OEMs. While OEM premium mix is up 2 percentage points from the prior year at 49%, a larger percentage of premium edition sales were made to consumers purchasing Windows Media Center, which carries a lower-price premium relative to Windows Professional. All in all, we were pleased to see the significant market traction and continued growth from Windows Media Center Edition, which has sold over 6.5 million licenses to date.  

Server & Tools continued to deliver double-digit revenue growth for the Company, reflecting broad adoption of Windows server system products and an exceptionally strong SQL Server 2005 product launch. SQL Server 2005 provides a data management and analysis platform that enables organizations to reliably manage mission-critical information and run complex business applications. Its business intelligence capabilities enable companies to gain greater insights from their business information. The value proposition of the product is outstanding, and we're delighted to see that many customers agree. Revenue for the quarter was $2.9 billion, a 14% increase over the prior year. Continued share gains in Enterprise resulted in SQL server revenue growth of an access of 20%.  

During the quarter, we also successfully launched Visual Studio 2005, BizTalk Server 2006 and Windows Server 2003 R2, adding to our already strong product lineup. Our Enterprise Services business also continued to show solid progress, with revenue growth of 17%.  

Information Worker revenue was in line with our expectations, growing 5% to $3 billion. Revenue growth related to volume licensing and pre-installed versions of Office in Japan were strong. This quarter, we experienced an increased annuity mix within our overall billings, which we attribute to customers' desire to acquire both Office 2003 and Office 12 upon its release later this calendar year. During the quarter, we also released a preview of Office Live, our future services offering, targeting small businesses as well as the technical data of Office 12, which garnered positive reviews from the industry.  

MBS revenue was $242 million, which is higher than our expectations and up 17% from the prior year, driven by the early release of Microsoft Dynamics CRM 3.0 and strong results in EMEA. As a result of the strong revenue growth, we were pleased to see MBS achieve operating profitability in the quarter. We also shipped new versions of Dynamics GP 9.0 and Dynamics SL 6.5 during the quarter.  

MSN revenue was $593 million, down 2%, driven by advertising growth at 12% offset by an expected decline of 33% in narrowband access revenue. We are pleased with the display advertising, which grew in excess of 20% for the quarter. We improved display advertising pricing and increased our inventory, while increasing the number of users of our services. Active Hotmail accounts grew to 230 million, compared to 191 million in the prior year, and active Messenger accounts grew to 205 million, compared to the 156 million in the prior year.  

As you know, we're in the middle of a transition in search advertising business, moving from Yahoo's platform to our own proprietary ad platform called MSN adCenter, which we began testing in the US during the quarter. The ramp-up of a new ad platform requires significant investment from Microsoft, both in development costs as well as in reduced revenues related to fewer numbers of overall advertisers and the resulting lower keyword pricing. The good news is that in response to our platform has been great, and we are ramping up deployment by rapidly on-boarding advertisers and moving more search traffic to the platform.  

On algorithmic search, we're continuing to grow query volume, improving relevance, and are investing in several search verticals. We have recently launched Mapping, the bird's-eye flyovers and mapping service, and are soon to launch News and Images. We're continuing to invest in Search for the long term, and believe there's lots of innovation yet to come. The decline in our narrowband access revenue was in line with our expectations, as customers continue to move on to broadband.  

MED revenue for the quarter grew 40% on broad strength across the Windows Embedded and Windows Mobile product lines, as we continue to capitalize on growing market demand for connected devices. Windows Mobile licenses for connected phone-enabled devices grew in excess of 70% from the prior year. Windows Embedded product growth of 64% was driven by the increasing use of Windows CE and Windows XP Embedded in a wide range of smart devices such as point-of-sale terminals and thin clients. As a result of the strong revenue in the quarter, MED also achieved its first quarter of operating profitability.  

Home & Entertainment revenue growth for the quarter was 13%, driven by the Xbox 360 launch and solid growth in our consumer, hardware and PC games product lines. During the second quarter, Xbox 360 achieved an unprecedented global videogame console launch, and we are thrilled with the results. We are first to market in 19 countries with Xbox 360, and have garnered record software attach rates indicative of the strength of our games portfolio. On Xbox Live, we continue to lead the way in online gaming. Whereas on Xbox Version 1, about one in ten customers are connected to the Xbox Live service. On Xbox 360, more than half of all consoles are connected. We are off to a strong early start with all these factors and, coupled with the continued uncertainty of our competitors entering into the next generation, we are right where we want to be.  

Demand for Xbox 360 consoles has been extremely strong, and the feedback on the platform has been incredibly positive. Our biggest challenge in the quarter was meeting the high consumer demand for the console. We sold 1.5 million Xbox 360 consoles in the second quarter, with 900,000 consoles in North America, 500,000 consoles in Europe and the remainder in Japan. This is lower than we expected, due to component charges stemming from challenges in ramping supply of a complex product like Xbox 360. But we believe that this is a short-term manufacturing challenge, and that we have taken steps to increase supply to meet the strong consumer demand for the console.  

A key indicator of platform health is the attach rate for games and accessories. According to NPD, software attach for the Xbox 360 in the US was more than four per console, and accessory attach was more than three per console for the quarter. Both are records, with consumers purchasing nearly double the amount relative to any other console launch in history. The software results in particular highlight that we have launched Xbox 360 with an incredibly strong lineup of games.  

Xbox Live continues to lead the way in defining online entertainment, and it is regarded as the standard by which all other online gaming services will be measured. Since the launch of Xbox 360, Xbox Live members have downloaded over 4 million pieces of high-definition games, music and movie content from the Xbox Live marketplace.  

Lastly, our Xbox Version 1 platform remains a great value to consumers. We sold over 2.2 million Xbox 1 consoles in the first half of our fiscal year, bringing the installed base to over 24 million worldwide, with 16 million in North America and 6 million in Europe. However, holiday demand for Xbox 1 console and software sales was negatively impacted by the momentum and excitement surrounding the Xbox 360 launch.  

Now, for the rest of the income statement and balance sheet. While revenue increased 9%, cost of revenue increased 19%. This increase was due to costs primarily associated with the Xbox 360 console volumes. The remainder of operating expenses increased about $750 million or 18%. As we have discussed in the past, we are investing aggressively in our businesses to satisfy customers and to compete and win in the marketplace.  

Investments this quarter were focused around the following areas -- strong levels of hiring and investment and research and development focused on new product development, examples of which include Windows Vista, Office 12, Longhorn Server, Exchange 12, MSN adCenter, Search and Communication Services; global advertising, focused primarily in our Client and Information Worker businesses, as well as overall corporate branding; increased hiring for field sales and marketing positions in support of future revenue growth, specifically in our enterprise and small and medium businesses sales forces, as well as our Information Worker specialists; and marketing spending associated with the product launches in the quarter, including SQL Server 2005 and Xbox 360.  

As you know, we have always taken a long-term view of our business. Today's investment in product R&D and sales and marketing lays out the foundation for future revenue and profit growth. Investment income and other totaled $480 million, including $212 million in net gains on investments and $185 million in net losses on derivatives, primarily related to losses on foreign exchange contracts and commodity positions. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was about 29%, lower than expected, due to a $108 million tax benefit associated with the settlement of state audits.  

Now, for a brief summary of the cash-flow statement and balance sheet. We generated over $2.2 billion in cash from operations, a 38% decline from prior year, due to increased spending on Xbox 360 inventories and other changes in working capital. Of the over $8.5 billion returned to shareholders during the quarter, $7.7 billion was for the repurchase of 283 million shares, with the remainder for dividends. During the quarter, our Board of Directors also announced a $0.01 increase to the regular quarterly dividend, bringing it to $0.09 per share per quarter. Cash and equivalents and short-term investments were down $5.4 billion or 13% sequentially from the first quarter to $34.7 billion, reflective of the record amount of share repurchase activity in the second quarter.  

So in summary, we achieved record revenue, with 9% growth driven by our core businesses and representing over $1 billion of absolute revenue growth versus the prior year. We are continuing to invest to fuel revenue and profit growth in the future. Our earnings per share was at the high end of our expectations, excluding tax benefits in the quarter. We executed on key product launches, kicking off a significant multiyear product cycle, and we repurchased our stock at record levels.  

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our expectations for Q3 and the rest of fiscal 2006.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Scott. As some of you may know, Scott is in the process of transitioning into his new role as the head of our OEM group. Microsoft's OEM channel is obviously critical to the Company's success, and we look forward to his contributions there. I would certainly personally like to take this opportunity to thank Scott for all his hard work and dedication in driving functional excellence across finance. Moving into his new role will allow Scott to continue to broaden his already substantial impact here at Microsoft. However, I'm sure he will also dearly miss joining us on these quarterly calls.  

Now, I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call giving you a view of what we are expecting for the third quarter and the rest of the full fiscal year. Please keep in mind that all of the growth figures that I am using reflect year-over-year growth for the comparable period, unless otherwise noted.  

Before giving specific financial guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions around the economy and general demand in the industry. With calendar 2006 under way, we expect overall IT spending should remain healthy in the new year. We feel good about our ability to participate in any growth in the overall marketplace in the coming year. We estimate that for the third quarter, PC unit growth should be 11 to 13%. Primarily as a result of higher-than-expected growth in the first half of fiscal 2006, we are raising our full fiscal year estimate to 12 to 14%. Our expectations for growth in the total server hardware market remain unchanged at 11% to 13% for the full fiscal year. For our forecast, we're assuming that changes in foreign exchange rates will not have a material impact on our year-over-year growth rates.  

So now for some detailed guidance. For the full year, we are tightening the revenue range we gave you in October, as we now expect revenue to come in between 44.0 and $44.5 billion, representing growth of 11 to 12%. We're forecasting the Q2 strength in our core software businesses to continue into the second half. For the third quarter, we expect revenue of 10.9 to $11.2 billion, representing year-over-year growth of 13 to 16%.  

Revenue by business group is as follows. For Client, we expect revenue growth to be 7 to 8% for the full fiscal year and 7 to 9% for the third quarter. We expect OEM units to grow roughly in line with the market, aided by growing traction in emerging markets. In Server & Tools, we are raising our expected revenue growth to 15 to 16% for the full fiscal year and 15 to 17% for the third quarter. We are forecasting continued corporate demand for our server products, with SQL Server 2005 continuing to show strong market acceptance.  

Information Worker revenue should grow 5 to 6% for the full fiscal year and 6 to 7% for the third quarter. As we move closer to the launch of Office 12, we expect corporate customers to increasingly prefer our annuity licensing programs when evaluating Office purchases.  

For Microsoft Business Solutions, we expect revenue growth to be 14 to 15% for the full fiscal year and approximately 16% for the third quarter. Customer demand for our new Dynamics CRM 3.0 has been above our expectations, and we are forecasting the recent strength to continue through the second half.  

For MSN, we're expecting revenue to be flat for both the full fiscal year and the third quarter. This reflects slightly lower revenue expectations for this business in fiscal 2006, driven primarily by our plans to accelerate the rate at which we ramp up adCenter to deliver our paid search results. While this is an important strategic decision for the long term, it does have a dampening effect on revenue for Search in the short term.  

Additionally, as I spoke about earlier in the call, we will also be making additional investments to strengthen the competitive position of our Internet services. Areas of investment include, for example, global infrastructure, where we are investing in global infrastructure in order to provide high-quality performance and reliability for our customers on a global basis. In adCenter, we will be hiring thousands of support people to provide great end-to-end service for our advertising customers; investing in development talent to increase the range of functionality for advertisers and thus increasing their ROI; increasing the traffic to adCenter to speed the transition from Yahoo's network; and finally, rolling out adCenter to more countries globally to provide end-to-end advertising solutions to our customers everywhere.  

In Search, we are investing in search verticals by increased development resources and by our acquisitions. For example, we bought GeoTango, which is a 3-D Internet visualization technology company, to enhance Windows Live Local Search. We are confident that we are making good investments for products on the near-term horizon, as well as for initiatives in products that will benefit us longer-term.  

Mobile & Embedded Devices revenue should grow greater than 30% for the year and about 35% for the third quarter, driven by a number of exciting new devices based on Windows Mobile 5.0.  

Home & Entertainment revenue is expected to grow between 35% and 45% for the year and between 80% and 100% for the third quarter. This reflects a reduction of the revenue guidance that we gave you in October, primarily as a result of two factors -- first, lower expectations for the Xbox 1 business, as the momentum around Xbox 360 has drawn some attention away from the previous platform. We expect to continue to sell the Xbox 1 console well into calendar year 2006, and certainly see this as a stretching out of the sales cycle. There are over 800 games currently available for the platform, and we expect there will continue to be a great flow of new content from third-party publishers in the coming years.  

Second, we have slightly lower expectations for our consumer hardware, software and PC games business. We have also lowered our estimate of Xbox 360 console sales in the first 90 days from launch from 2.75 to 3 million units to 2.5 million units, due to supply constraints. Even so, we estimate that consumers will spend over $1.5 billion in total retail value on Xbox 360 consoles, games and peripherals in these first 90 days, which is indicative of the health and magnitude of the Xbox 360 launch.  

As you know, we are bringing on a third manufacturing partner, Celestica, next month to help in meeting strong consumer demand for the Xbox 360 console. For that reason, we are not adjusting our previously announced fiscal year console sales guidance of 4.5 to 5.5 million consoles, and our revenue guidance is based on unit sales within that range.  

We continue to expect great software attach for Xbox 360, resulting from a strong flow of new games for the platform over the coming months. By the end of June, Xbox 360 will have more than 50 high-definition games from the best-knowns in publishing. We delivered on an unprecedented global launch during the quarter, and by the end of March, Xbox 360 will be available in nearly 30 countries and remain on track to be the fastest-selling videogame console in history.  

Operating income for the full fiscal year is expected to be between 17.9 billion and $18.3 billion, representing growth of 23 to 25%. Please note this full-year guidance includes the charge we took in Q1 of $361 million for the settlement of RealNetworks. Before significant settlements and other such one-off items, operating income for the full fiscal year is expected to be between 18.3 billion and $18.6 billion, representing double-digit growth of 10 to 12%.  

For the third quarter, operating income should be between 4.5 billion and $4.6 billion, representing 36 to 39% growth over the prior year, or 11 to 13% growth if you exclude the $768 million settlement charge taken in that year-ago quarter.  

For diluted earnings per share, we're tightening the range that we gave you in October by raising the low end of that by $0.01. The range is $1.28 to $1.31 for the full fiscal year on a GAAP basis. If you were to adjust for the RealNetworks settlement charge of $0.02 from the first quarter and the $0.01 tax benefit in the second quarter, then earnings per share will be 1.29 to $1.32. We expect GAAP earnings per share of $0.32 to $0.33 for the third quarter, and expect to have an effective tax rate of 31% for the third quarter and the remainder of the year.  

On the balance sheet, we're still expecting unearned revenue to finish the year up 8 to 10% and it's likely to be at the higher end of that range. We're also raising our estimate on our contracted not billed balance to now finish the year above $9 billion. This is up from our prior guidance of finishing the year above $8 billion.  

So when you combine our overall revenue growth with the net increase in unearned and contracted not billed, you'll find that our year-over-year booking performance for the company in fiscal 2006 is strong, and we feel confident about how we will end the year.  

So in closing, I'd like to say I'm pleased with our second quarter and our fiscal year '06 performance on three counts -- first, the customer reaction to our newly launched products being fantastic; second, our ability to deliver our products on time, which, given the [style] and complexity of our product range, reflects a great performance and an increasingly improved operational discipline; and last, we met our expense targets for the quarter.  

With that, I would like to hand the call back to Colleen, so we can take some of your questions.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many of you as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Adam Holt, JPMorgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Two questions on the unearned commentary. To get to the higher end of the 8 to 10% growth for the year, when would you expect to start to see an acceleration in the Information Worker bookings in front of Office? And secondly, can you talk about some of the things that you're doing to try and accelerate Client bookings as well, particularly with Vista Enterprise?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: For the second half of the year, we do actually have quite a large number of contracts that are maturing, and that's one of the reasons why we feel confident about the unearned balance being at the higher end of that range. The first half of the year was a relatively modest period for expiries, and the second half is a relatively high one.  

On the Information Worker side, we're actually already starting to see what we think is a mix shift away from fully-priced product to the Enterprise side. So we are starting to see that impact already, and we believe that will continue through the first half of this calendar year, second half of fiscal year.  

On the Client side, what was the question about Client?  

ADAM HOLT: I know there are a number of initiatives in place to try and drive long-term contracts on the Client side in the context of the Vista release. I was hoping you could update us on that, and also talk about when we would expect to see that acceleration.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We haven't built in significant expectations on the Enterprise side for the second half. We certainly think we'll start to see some year-on-year benefits as the calendar year proceeds and as we get closer to the Vista launch. We are seeing some benefits, for example, in the new software assurance product that we launched last year. So, as opposed to a declining trend that we've seen in previous quarters, that has flattened out. And it we'll improve, but we haven't built a lot of that into our expectations for the second half of the fiscal year.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just first, on a technicality. Can you reconcile why the cash-flow statement shows 7.4 billion of stock repurchase and you're saying 7.7 in the text?  

COLLEEN HEALY: What's going on there, Rick, is not all of the buyback settles in the quarter. So the difference that you're seeing is intra-quarter settlements. And we'll touch that up next quarter when this settles.  

RICK SHERLUND: And the constraints on supply for Xbox 360 -- if you could just talk for a moment about that. Can you be more specific with us about what that is? And it doesn't seem that the supply constraint in adding Celestica necessarily helps that. If you could kind of add some clarity there?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: As was said in our prepared remarks, we had some issues with some of the components. There's nothing that we think is systematic, to the extent we have solved some of them or will be solving any that we have resolved in the short term. So it's not a constraint that we see that's going to be significant going forward. I'll just reiterate, in terms of the volatility that we can expect in the first few weeks with a product of that significance launched across 19 countries, whilst it's the low end of our expectations, it's not surprising from our perspective. And we don't see it as a significant issue for the first six months.  

OPERATOR: Charlie DiBona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Can we turn to MSN for a second here? It looks like your Search ads are slightly down year on year and basically flat sequentially. And you talked a little bit about the impact that adCenter is having on your pricing. Does that mean that in areas where you are not beta testing adCenter, that you're not seeing any deterioration in Search pricing? And then, what has your experience in France and Singapore, as you have gone live with the product? Are you seeing a recovery in pricing there? And I guess a related question would be, what are you doing about sort of the deteriorating leverage you are getting on your community in your partner ads?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: If I take those in part, hopefully I'll pick up all of the parts. In terms of the beta testing, no, there is not a positive impact from that. In fact, as we initially ramp up, because the volumes are lower than what they are in the combined Microsoft/Yahoo! platform, we actually see a deterioration in the pricing. That will take some time, as we need to ramp up to typical mass in volume. So that has a negative impact.  

In terms of the expectations that we had and the receptivity, that's going, in fact, better than we had hoped for, which is one of the reasons why we are accelerating the ramp out there. But it does have a negative impact.  

In terms of the Overture pricing, no, I don't believe we saw a deterioration in the pricing of the non-acCenter-based ads during the quarter. But as we've said before, we don't have a lot of visibility in there, so the trends that we are seeing, unfortunately, is something that is opaque to us, and one of the reasons why we are moving faster on adCenter and taking control of our own destiny.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: And what about the partner network, where you've seen some deterioration, as well?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's not significant in my mind from a financial point of view, so I'm not entirely sure what you are referring to from a numbers point of view, but there's nothing systematic that we're seeing there.  

CHARLIE DIBONA: Well, you mentioned it in your MD&A.  

COLLEEN HEALY: The partner issue is the partner-driven prices. That's sort of the same question as Overture. What we're seeing a bit is, for the partner-driven -- so, in other words, the part that we don't control our own fate on -- we're seeing pricing pressure, which surprises us a bit. We're going to take our fate into our own hands, and we are going to ramp up adCenter.  

So, given that we are ramping that up, we probably don't have tons of life left on this partner-driven prices; it sort of is what it is, and we're focused on making our adCenter platform best in class.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I have a quick question. I think Brian may have one, as well. Chris, for the last couple of quarters, you have had very strong PC unit growth but Client revenue growth has not been as strong. You drilled down on the reasons for that -- emerging markets, mix, et cetera -- but the delta is large. Is this the kind of delta we should just expect on a go-forward basis as we go through our modeling?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I think you can realistically expect, if not all of that delta, then some large part of it for the rest of this fiscal year. So if you take our guidance on PC unit growth and on revenue, that's the delta that we expect, based on those mix factors. Going into fiscal year '07, I don't, obviously, want to get into forecasting that at this stage. But we would certainly see, for example, the fully-priced package product sales being different in our launch year with something like Vista. So that impact, which has been negative, would be something that would be different.  

MARY MEEKER: You think you could narrow to something where it's more like a 300 basis point difference?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Well --  

COLLEEN HEALY: Mary, to some extent, we are already seeing in the quarter some narrowing. If you remember, sort of last year, we were down sort of mid to high teens on commercial and retail. We did see some narrowing this quarter; we are down 2%. If you look at our guidance in the back half, it continues to narrow, in terms of where we think the PC market is coming and where our revenue is coming in. Hopefully, that's some sort of indication to you about our expectations.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: The other factor is it depends a little on the absolute size of the PC growth. So as it gets larger, it's tending to come from the consumer area, which is tending to make the gap bigger. Said and a year where the PC growth was, say, lower, then we would expect the gap, all other things being equal, to be narrower.  

UNIDENTIFIED SPEAKER: Just a quick question to follow up on the 360. Are you still on target for the 4.5 to 5.5 million consoles by June? I know you took down the number for the quarter.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we are still targeting that range.  

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: I just wanted to follow up to Mary's last question. I was wondering if at some point, if, as Steve Ballmer said, there's a mix to higher-end SKUs, could you see the fact that the consumer is making the gap bigger right now, as you just mentioned -- could you see that change with Vista and the big uptake of things such as Media Center PC Edition?  

And I guess the follow-up would be there's some concern in the market that Vista might not make it out for the 2006 holiday season. Is there any update you can provide for us on that?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: From our perspective, we're still talking about Vista launching in the second half of this calendar year, so no change there.  

In terms of the swing in mix, we are seeing inside the consumer side of things a positive mix swing -- for example, as you mentioned, to Media Center. So that is helping. But on the other side, in terms of emerging markets and the growth that's there relative to the mature markets, there's, if you like, a negative mix. We have a lower price point in those. So there's a number of moving parts, but in terms of the consumer side of mature markets, we are definitely seeing Media Center traction, and that is helping us.  

HEATHER BELLINI: So I just want to make sure --  

COLLEEN HEALY: (Multiple speakers) add to that, going back to our financial analyst meeting, Steve made some general comments about SKUs and having more differentiation within our SKU strategy. What you're seeing, for example, with the SQL Server 2005 launch was we had four different SKUs, took the high end up, had a nice lower-end SKU. In terms of some software assurance announcements in terms of Vista, in particular, you've heard us talk about Vista Enterprise Edition available to [SA] customers. So I think what you can expect to see and you are beginning to see from us is differentiation within our SKUs.  

OPERATOR: Kash Rangan, Merrill Lynch.  

KASH RANGAN, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: I was just wondering, given that you're seeing better attach rates with the Xbox 360, and the software component of the total revenue mix looking a little bit richer versus your prior expectations, why would that not be even more profitable, to the degree that you might want to reconsider [raised on] the EPS guidance on the positive side for the year?  

COLLEEN HEALY: I want to be sure we understand the question there. Could you just repeat it?  

KASH RANGAN: Sure. With better-than-expected attach rates for the game titles for the Xbox 360, and if you are maintaining your forecast for unit shipments, it sounds like the higher-margin software component of the total revenues should be a positive, that you might consider revising your EPS forecast for fiscal 2006 on the upward side, right?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Offsetting that, to some extent, is the Xbox 1 sales and the software associated with that, and also our HRD revenue in that HED segment. So, to the extent they are profitable elements, that we are lowering those, then that has an offsetting impact.  

COLLEEN HEALY: And we are just super-thrilled to see the unprecedented attach rate on software with the game console. Keep in mind that at this point it's generally, really, the hard-core enthusiasts who are getting involved in midnight madness. They may be more inclined to take the extra game, the extra peripheral. We what to be nice and conservative there, and not necessarily forecast that too aggressively.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: And outside of the HED segment, as Scott mentioned in the prepared remarks, we are making some investments in MSN, for example, and adCenter and some of the impacts of the small acquisitions that we are doing in that area -- for example, GeoTango. So that is also offsetting, from an operating income point of view, some of the other benefits.  

KASH RANGAN: And also, finally, on unearned revenue, you talked about 8 to 10% growth for fiscal 2006. It looks like it's been growing, actually, north of that the last three quarters; it's been 12 to 13%. So is it just conservatism as you head into a product transition, or anything else behind that forecast?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Quite often on a quarter-by-quarter basis, relatively big swings, depending on the seasonality and the expiration pattern. So the 8 to 10% is just how we see the year-on-year, given what we see in the second half. There's nothing more significant than that.  

OPERATOR: Brent Thill, Prudential.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Chris, you mentioned CRM 3.0 was exceeding expectations. Are there any metrics to back up the success of that product in the market that you gave out with SQL Server 2005?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Just the revenue growth inside the overall segment. I don't know if we split out the CRM (multiple speakers) in terms of growth. Coming off such a low base, it was an extremely high number. And I don't think it will -- it was, I think, triple digits or something, from memory. So I'm not sure it will give you a real indicator. But in terms of absolute dollars, it was just extremely well-received. And if I can put it this way, that the reason for the outperformance in that particular segment was virtually all CRM. So that's one way you can get an order of magnitude from it.  

BRENT THILL: And just to follow up on Heather's question, around Vista, you're saying second half of the year. Is there any more granularity? Will it make it into the back-to-school segment, or should we expect a late '06 ship?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: At this stage, we really aren't saying anything more than what we previously had. Obviously, in the next quarterly call that we have in April, we will foreshadow FY '07, and we'll certainly be happy to talk more about it at that stage.  

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard, Credit Suisse First Boston.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Given your interest in AOL during the quarter, can you maybe talk a little bit, just from kind of a corporate development perspective, how you're thinking about MSN and some of the other sort of advertising-related businesses around that market, outside of your own investments that you're making, obviously, in building better tools and whatnot?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't want to, obviously, speculate on anything to do with acquisitions. I think Steve has spoken quite openly, and I've certainly talked on previous calls, about our willingness to consider acquisitions as a way of fueling growth. We have been doing a reasonably significant number of them. In fact, we have been announcing relatively roughly one a month. They are small to medium-sized, and to a large extent, that's the ones that we really think give us good value for our money. And we certainly expect to continue to do some of that. But in terms of speculating on larger transactions or their impact on particular business, that's not something I really want to do.  

JASON MAYNARD: And then maybe just any color you can kind of give us on the composition of the strength of within SQL Server, either by customer or geography or anything that gives a little bit more detail around where you saw the real upside?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Very broad-based, really, is the easiest way of putting it. It wasn't -- it didn't peak in any particular area or any particular segment. It was just incredibly well-received across the board.  

OPERATOR: David Hilal, Friedman Billings Ramsey.  

DAVID HILAL, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN BILLINGS RAMSEY: Kind of a follow-up onto the adCenter questions -- outside of France and Singapore, what other milestones do you have for launching adCenter? Can you give us maybe some specific dates or rough dates for the rest of this calendar year, in terms of deployment of adCenter? Thanks.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: In the US, I believe we have around 15 to 20% of our ads served in the US now through adCenter and trending towards 25%. I'm not sure I want to say there's a particular date, but certainly by spring of this year, we would expect the great bulk of our US business to go through adCenter.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks so much, everyone, for joining us today. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, the conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations website through close of business January 26, 2007. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 800-695-0673 or, for international calls, dial 402-220-0304. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business February 3, 2006. And of course, if you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. Thanks again for joining us today.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thank you all. you'll.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's Microsoft conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | ielec : Electronics | ihome : Home Electronics/Appliances | ilgood : Leisure/Travel Goods
   NS
ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c22 : New Products/Services | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060209e21q002pb
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,630 words
   PD
27 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and welcome to the Microsoft 2006 fiscal-year first-quarter earnings conference call. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. Please be advised that this call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Colleen Healy, Senior Director, Investor Relations.  

   TD
COLLEEN HEALY, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Di Valerio, Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key takeaways for the first quarter of fiscal year 2006 and an overview of expectations for the rest of the fiscal year. Scott will then provide detail around our first-quarter results, and then turn it back to Chris for a more detailed discussion of our guidance for the second quarter and full fiscal year. After that, we will take your questions.  

We filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release. Therefore, you have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements and footnotes. We have also posted our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which is intended to follow the flow of our prepared remarks in order to assist you. The slide deck offers highlights from the quarter, outlines our guidance and provides a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that we will talk about today. Slide numbers are posted on the bottom right of each slide, and we may refer to certain slides throughout the presentation for your convenience. You can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the investor relations website at  www.Microsoft.com/MSFT .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft investor relations website. A replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on October 27, 2006.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use of the transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements during this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and comments made during this conference call and in the management's discussion and analysis section of our 10-Q, our 2005 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, please flip to slide number four, where Chris's comments will begin.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Colleen, and good afternoon, everyone. It's good to have you joining us on today's call. I'm going to begin by highlighting the key points from last quarter's performance and taking a look at the rest of the fiscal year '06.  

First, we had a good quarter and a good start to the year, with strong execution and results that were in line with the guidance that we gave you in July.  

Second, we enjoyed healthy demand in our core platform software businesses, including strong OEM volumes for Client and continued outstanding demand, resulting in another quarter of double-digit revenue growth from our Server and Tools group. We saw impressive results for SQL server, which grew more than 15% in the quarter before its next-generation launch, and we're delighted that the value proposition for SQL continues to result in such strong product demand.  

Third, even with the continued investments we are making to launch our new product cycle and acquire technology and talent, we grew operating income faster than revenue for the quarter.  

Fourth, we're excited about the number of activities and announcements during the first quarter that demonstrate our business momentum. For example, our product groups were busy, and we made several important product announcements. We launched Beta 1 Windows Vista this quarter, and had an excellent and well-attended professional developers' conference, where we released a community technology preview of Windows Vista and unveiled some of the compelling innovation that will come with Office 12. We released System Center Date Protection Manager 2006, which is targeted to customers who want additional data protection. And lastly, we announced general availability for Microsoft Office Small Business Accounting and Small Business Management.  

From a business organization standpoint, we were pleased to announce during the quarter the realignment of the Company under three newly formed divisions, in order to drive greater agility in the execution of our software and services strategy. We are also very happy to welcome Kevin Turner on board as our new COO.  

We also completed three acquisitions during the quarter. We Teleo for its innovative VoIP technology. Frontbridge was acquired to expand our messaging and collaboration offerings to include fully managed services on multiple e-mail platforms. And we also acquired Alacris, a global provider of certificate management and identity assurance software products.  

Lastly, we had great momentum during the quarter on our stock repurchase plan. We have repurchased over $11 billion of Microsoft stock on a cumulative basis, just five quarters into our announced plan.  

So we're off to a good start to fiscal 2006. Let me make a few key points about how the rest of the fiscal year is shaping up.  

First, we continue to see fiscal year 2006 as an excellent year, kicking off our next product cycle. We expect double-digit revenue growth for the year, driven by our core platform software businesses and by H&E, with the launch of Xbox 360.  

Second, we continue to invest in the businesses. As a reminder, in fiscal 2006, we will be making investments to launch Xbox 360, SQL Server 2005 and Visual Studio 2005. We will also be investing ahead of the launch of Windows Vista, Office 12 and Exchange 12, planned for the second half of calendar 2006. And as we indicated in our financial analysts meeting, we continue to focus on both software and services and will make appropriate investments to deliver new services to our customers.  

With that, I would like to turn the call over to Scott for more details on the quarter, and then I will come back later and provide you with more details on the rest of the fiscal year.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, CORPORATE VP, FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION, CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. As Chris mentioned, fiscal 2006 is off to a good start for Microsoft. During the quarter, we achieved revenue growth of 6%, which was in line with our expectations entering the quarter. We grew operating income faster than revenue, while continuing to make investments necessary to deliver on our strong product pipeline. We delivered strong earnings growth, with earnings per share at the high end of our guidance, excluding settlement charges. And lastly, we returned over 90% of our cash flow from operations to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends.  

In order to get a clearer picture of our quarterly performance, I will highlight topline financial business and momentum points, followed by revenue performance for each of the business units. Then, I will wrap up with an overview of operating performance, as well as the balance sheet and cash flow information.  

All growth comparisons I mentioned relate to the comparable quarters of last year unless otherwise specified. Total revenue for the quarter was in line with our guidance at over $9.7 billion, representing topline growth of 6%. Operating income was $4 billion, including a settlement charge of $361 million related to RealNetworks. Earnings per share was $0.29, including $0.02 of settlement charges.  

Strength in SQL licensing as well as PC and server hardware shipments resulted in Server and Tools growth of 13% and Client growth of 7%, driving our overall revenue growth for the quarter. Add in a good quarter by Information Worker, and our three largest businesses grew revenue by a combined 8%, representing over 600 million in absolute revenue growth.  

We were also pleased with the strong results posted by Microsoft Business Solutions and Mobile and Embedded Devices. The IT spending environment was largely in line with our expectations, a clear highlight being continued strength in PC and server hardware market growth. Demand was generally healthy across all customer segments, and from a regional perspective, emerging markets were noticeably stronger than mature markets.  

Our estimate of PC growth during the quarter of 15 to 17% was actually quite a bit stronger than we had expected. A very strong back-to-school sales season resulted in consumer PC shipment growth outpacing business shipments for the second consecutive quarter. From a form factor perspective, growth in notebook PC shipments continues to outpace desktops, while PC unit demand was broad-based regionally, with double-digit growth rates in all geographies except for Japan. Emerging market growth rates continue to significantly outpace mature markets.  

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was consistent year over year, with roughly 35% from OEMs, 25% from multiyear licensing agreements, 15% from license-only sales and the balance from our other businesses. We had good results overall from a licensing perspective, with the strongest growth in enterprise agreements, where our renewal experience remains within our historical range of 66 to 75%, with no significant changes in the rate of discounting. Open L-only product billings were also strong. New select and open annuity agreement growth remains healthy, and renewal rates are in line with historical trends.  

Our unearned revenue balance ended the quarter where we had expected, at $8.8 billion. This represents a $361 million seasonal sequential decrease from Q4, but a 13% increase from the prior year. The multiyear licensing component of unearned revenue decreased by $237 million sequentially, which is consistent with expected billing seasonality for the business. Other unearned revenue decreased $102 million, driven primarily by decreases in services.  

Our contracted not billed balance at the end of September was up sequentially and now exceeds $8.5 billion. As mentioned earlier, we had a strong new and renewal enterprise agreement billings during the quarter. The value of the second and third year of those agreements is included in the contracted not billed balance, and exceeded the amount of reoccurring billings from contracts signed in prior periods which flowed to the balance sheet.  

Before I get into revenue details for each business group, I would like to point out the revenue uplift from foreign exchange rates was about $90 million for the quarter or 1 percentage point of our 6 percentage point revenue growth.  

Now, let's move onto a discussion of revenue by business segment. Client revenue grew 7% on the strength of PC unit growth of 15 to 17%. Since roughly 80% of Client sales are earned through the OEM channel, it is important to capture the market unit growth. Our OEM license units growth of 18% is a good indicator that we were successful. The OEM license growth of 18% translated into client OEM revenue growth of 13%, primarily due to the combined impact of two factors, both of which negatively impacted our OEM pricing mix -- first, the channel mix toward larger OEMs with volume pricing and, second, the relative strength of the consumer segment in the PC market.  

Consistent with the shift in channel mix, we saw a change in the sales mix of our premium edition operating systems license to OEMs. While OEM premium mix was flat year over year at 50%, a larger percentage of premium edition sales were made to consumers purchasing Windows Media Center, which carries a lower-priced premium relative to Windows professional. All in all, we are very pleased to see significant market traction and growth for the Windows Media Center.  

During the quarter, commercial and retail licensing of Windows operating systems declined by 19%, as customers chose to upgrade their PC operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs versus the purchase of a volume licensing agreement. I should also remind you that we had a relatively strong retail sales in the first quarter last year, in conjunction with the release of Windows XP SP2, which negatively impacted the year-over-year growth comparisons.  

Server and Tools continued to deliver double-digit revenue growth for the Company. Revenue for the quarter was $2.5 billion, a 13% increase over the prior year. Robust growth in the database market segment and share gains in the enterprise resulted in SQL Server revenue growth of over 15%. This is an impressive result in front of the SQL Server 2005 launch next month. Strong server hardware shipments drove double-digit revenue growth for Windows Server, as well. And our Enterprise Services business also continued to show solid progress, with revenue growth of 18%.  

Information Worker revenue was at the high end of our expectations, growing 4% to $2.7 billion. Customer demand for Office 2003 remained healthy, with revenue growth during the quarter driven by particularly strong back-to-school sales in the retail channel. We also saw continued growth in category application sales, which exceeded our expectations for the quarter.  

MBS revenue was $181 million, up 16% from the prior year on strong performance in ERP and CRM software revenue, partially offset by expected declines in services revenue. On the strength of 21% license revenue growth, software revenue was up 18%, faster than the overall business applications market segment in the quarter. Also during the quarter, we announced Microsoft Dynamics, the new brand for our ERP and CRM solutions.  

MSN revenue grew 1% during the quarter, driven by growth in advertising revenue of 20%, offset by a decline in narrowband access revenue of 30%, as we expected. We were pleased with the growth on our display advertising revenue, which is largely in line with market growth for this category. However, our search advertising revenue has not been as strong as we would like. We are continuing to work on our Ad Center, our end-to-end advertising platform. And this quarter we launched our paid search solution in France and Singapore, as well as testing the technology in the United States. We expect this work to result in improvements over time in our search advertising revenue.  

MSN continues to be focused on innovating and bringing rich and compelling Internet experiences to our customers. We continue to work on search -- algorithmic, desktop and local. We are innovating our communication assets in Hotmail, Messenger and Spaces. We are pleased with the growth in our overall user base, and believe this is a testament to the breadth and depth of our offerings.  

Mobile and Embedded Device revenue for the quarter grew by over 50% on broad strength across the Windows Mobile and Windows Embedded product lines, as we continue to capitalize on the growing market demand for connected devices. Windows Mobile licenses for phone-enabled pocket PCs and smart phones grew in excess of 130% from the prior year. Leading indicators for our Windows Mobile 5.0 product are very positive, with recent device announcements such as the Q from Motorola, the Windows mobile-based Treo from Palm and the PPC-6700 from Sprint PCS. Windows Embedded product growth of 57% was driven by increasing use of Windows CE in a wide range of cost-sensitive devices and broader worldwide channel product support.  

We'd expected Home and Entertainment revenue to decline this quarter in front of the Xbox 360 launch. However, it was little softer than expected, primarily due to delays in third-party title launches, as well as slightly lower than expected console sales. Our primary focus remains on the successful launch of the Xbox 360 on November 22nd in North America, December 2nd in Europe and December 12th in Japan. This is the first worldwide console launch in industry history. Also as part of our strategy for success in Japan, we announced that over 40 elite Japanese game publishers will join the top publishers from around the world in supporting the Xbox 360.  

We also continue to see strong progress and momentum in our Microsoft TV business. We've hit several important milestones, including the commercial launch in September of Verizon's FiOS TV service, the release of version 1.0 of Microsoft TV IPTV Edition software and the commercial availability of the first set-top boxes and system-on-chip silicon design supporting Microsoft TV IPTV Edition.  

Now, for the rest of the income statement and balance sheet. While revenue increased 6%, cost of revenue decreased about 11%. This decrease was mainly due to lower Xbox console volumes and product costs, as well as reduction in headcount expenses, including stock-based compensation expense. The remainder of operating expenses increased about $330 million or 9% excluding settlement charges.  

As we discussed last quarter and at the financial analysts meeting, we will continue to invest aggressively in our businesses to satisfy customers and to compete and win in the marketplace. Investment this quarter was focused on the following areas -- strong levels of hiring and investment in R&D, focused on new product development, examples of which include Windows Vista, Office 12, Longhorn Server, Exchange 12, MSN Ad Center and Communication Services and our upcoming Dynamics product releases.  

Global advertising focused primarily on our Client and Information Worker businesses, as well as overall corporate branding, and increased hiring for field sales and marketing positions in support of future revenue growth, specifically in our enterprise and small and medium business sales forces, as well as our Information Worker specialists. Even with these investments and excluding settlement charges, we grew operating income faster than revenue for the quarter and achieved an operating income margin of 45%. We firmly believe that today's investment in product R&D and sales and marketing continues to lay the foundation for future revenue and profit growth.  

Investment income and other totaled $506 million, including $26 million in net gains on investments and $86 million in net gains on derivatives, primarily related to gains on equity derivatives and commodity derivatives. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 31%, lower than expected and less than prior year, due primarily to an increase in earnings taxed at lower rates and foreign jurisdictions.  

Now, for a brief summary of the cash-flow statement and balance sheet. We generated over $4.3 billion in cash from operations, up 8% from the prior year, and returned about $4 billion of that cash to shareholders in the form of stock repurchases and dividends. Reflecting our continued optimism about our future growth prospects, we repurchased more than 110 million shares for just over $3 billion during the quarter, which contributed to a 1% decline in our diluted shares outstanding to 10.8 billion shares. Cash and equivalents and short-term investments were up sequentially from the fourth quarter and now exceed $40 billion.  

So, in summary, 6% revenue growth for the quarter, representing over $550 million in incremental revenue versus the prior year, continued investment to fuel revenue and profit growth in the future, operating income growth in excess of revenue growth, earnings per share at the high end of our expectations when you exclude settlement charges, the development of key products and related launches are on track and strong execution against our stock buyback plans -- overall, a good start to fiscal 2006.  

With that, let me turn it back to Chris, who will provide you with our expectations for the second quarter and for the rest of the fiscal year.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Scott. I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call giving you a view of what we see coming in the second quarter, as well as for the full fiscal year. Before we get into specific guidance, let me outline some of our key assumptions around the economy and general demand in the industry. The overall IT spending environment continues to look healthy from our perspective, and we feel good about our ability to participate in the opportunities created in the marketplace. Our estimate of unit growth in the PC market for the second quarter is 10 to 12%. As a result of higher-than-expected growth in the first quarter, we are raising our full fiscal year estimate to 9 to 11%.  

Our expectations for growth in the total server hardware market remain unchanged, at 11 to 13% for the full fiscal year. From a foreign exchange standpoint, we are assuming the FX rates will not have a major impact on our year-over-year growth.  

But now, for some detailed guidance. For the full year, we're reiterating the guidance that we gave you in July, as we continue to expect revenue to come in between 43.7 and $44.5 billion, representing growth of 10 to 12%. Again, this is driven in large part by our core platform software businesses, as well as H&E with the launch of Xbox 360. For the second quarter, we expect revenue of 11.9 to $12 billion, representing growth of 10 to 11%.  

Before I give you revenue guidance for each business, I want to let you know that fiscal year 2005 business group revenue amounts have been restated to certain internal reorganizations. The stated percentage growth in the guidance reflects revised amounts for the last fiscal year. You can find those numbers on slide 27 of the appendix to the slide deck that accompanies this earnings release, as well as on our investor relations website.  

So, revenue by business group is as follows. For Client, we expect revenue growth to be 6 to 7% for the full fiscal year and 8 to 9% for the second quarter. We expect OEM units to grow roughly in line with the market, and we're forecasting a small decline in the commercial and retail licensing portion of the business.  

As we approach the Windows Vista launch, we think the customers will see a more compelling value proposition from our multiyear licenses, which should help the commercial business for Client. Also helping are the new benefits and enhancements to our software assurance offering that will be implemented in the second half of the year, including Windows Vista Enterprise Edition and Windows Fundamentals for Legacy PCs.  

In Server and Tools, we're expecting revenue growth of 11 to 13% for the full fiscal year and 9 to 10% for the second quarter. The guidance contemplates a slight slowdown in SQL sales early in the second quarter, just before launch, when we expect this product to be well-received and to drive additional growth in the second half of the year. We're seeing strength in this business and expect it to remain strong throughout the year.  

Information Worker revenue should grow 5 to 6% for the full fiscal year and 6 to 7% for the second quarter. Although it's relatively late in the Office 2003 lifecycle, we are continuing to see strong demand for the product in the marketplace. We are also projecting accelerated growth in our category products in this business. We began this quarter making some investments in additional field sales headcount and expect them to pay off later this year.  

For Microsoft Business Solutions, we expect revenue growth to be 11 to 13% for the full fiscal year and for the second quarter. We're looking forward to the launch of Dynamics GP 9.0 in the second quarter, Dynamics CRM 3.0 and Dynamics AX 4.0 later this fiscal year.  

For MSN, we're expecting revenue to be flat or to grow up to 2% for the full fiscal year and to be flat for the second quarter. Keep in mind that the overall growth rate for this business is muted by the expected decrease in revenue for narrowband Internet access, as subscribers move to broadband. Overall, MSN's advertising revenue should grow 15 to 20% for the full fiscal year, driven by display advertising, which remains healthy and in line with industry growth rates. Search advertising growth is tempered by lower-than-expected search monetization. We are pleased to have begun testing our own paid search solution in the United States after a successful launch in France and Singapore.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices should grow to approximately $330 million for the year and to just under $90 million for the second quarter. The Mobile device market remains strong, and we believe we are making the right investments to grow this business in that market. There are a number of exciting announcements this quarter regarding the inclusion of Windows Mobile 5.0 software in devices such as the Motorola Q and the Windows Mobile-based Treo from Palm. These devices should hit the market in the early part of calendar year 2006.  

With the launch of Xbox 360 in November, Home and Entertainment revenue is expected to grow in excess of 50% for the year, consistent with prior guidance, and between 26 and 32% for the second quarter. This clearly tremendous momentum behind the platform with growing customer demand, strong third-party publisher's port with over 200 games currently in development and positive reviews from industry press and analysts.  

We're poised for a very successful worldwide launch. When assessing our H&E guidance for both the second quarter and the year, it's important to keep in mind the following with respect to the Xbox business.  

First, we're taking a different approach to launching the Xbox 360 than has been traditionally followed in the industry. Whereas others have shipped significant volumes for launch and then resupplied many weeks or months later, our process is to continually supply the channel on a regular basis. We believe this is the better approach because it provides predictability to retailers and consumers around product availability.  

Second, consumer demand for the Xbox 360 will exceed supply at launch, as you would expect for a great product with strong pent-up demand. Nevertheless, we are on track to our manufacturing plans, with enough volume to support a worldwide launch, and we expect to meet demand sometime in the second half of our fiscal year. As a result, our forecast is to ship between 4.5 and 5.5 million Xbox 360 consoles in fiscal 2006. We will be sharing more information on projected 360 console shipments as we get closer to launch.  

Lastly, in comparing to the second quarter of the prior year, remember that we launched the extremely successful first-party title Halo 2, which generated over $300 million in revenue in the quarter. We are also reiterating the operating income guidance that we gave you in July and expect operating income to be between 17.9 and $18.4 billion. Excluding the settlement charge with RealNetworks, operating income should be between 18.3 and $18.8 billion, representing growth of 10 to 13%.  

For the quarter, we expect operating income to be between $4.6 billion and $4.7 billion, representing a 1 to 3% decline. The year-over-year decline in operating income from Q2 is really driven by three primary factors. First, Xbox 360 console margins at launch will be subsidized. We expect to be gross margin neutral over the life of the console, and as customers buy more games, our profitability picture will improve. We have significant launch costs in Q2 for 360, SQL Server 2005 and Visual Studio 2005. This will drive expenses up year over year. And lastly, we are making a concerted effort to even out our spending on a more balanced basis throughout the year. As you will notice, this leads to a strong performance in the second half of the fiscal year.  

With diluted earnings per share, we are tightening the range that we gave you in July by raising the low end of that by $0.01. The range is $1.26 to $1.30 for the full fiscal year, which includes the RealNetworks settlement charge of $0.02. We expect earnings per share of $0.32 or $0.33 for the second quarter and expect to have an effective tax rate of 31% for the year.  

On the balance sheet, we're still expecting unearned revenue to follow normal seasonal patterns and to finish the year up 8% to 10%. Our overall outlook on the contract but not billed balance is unchanged from the guidance we gave you last quarter.  

So, in closing, I would like to take the opportunity to put more context around the bigger picture of how we intend to drive shareholder value. It starts with revenue growth through our innovation. As we've said in the past, and as I would like to reiterate today, as we execute successfully on our product pipeline and the opportunities we have in front of us, we expect accelerated revenue growth beyond fiscal year '06.  

We are also announcing today an accelerated plan to complete our $30 billion stock repurchase plan by no later than December 2006. This means that we plan to buy back the remaining 19 billion of stock over the next five quarters. This acceleration, combined with our buyback activity over the last few quarters, and the ability we have to continue to reduce diluted shares outstanding well into the future, shows our confidence in the business and adds up to a great opportunity for Microsoft to deliver earnings per share growth over the next few years. When combined with our recurring dividend yield, we believe this forms the basis for shareholder return for Microsoft shareholders.  

With those comments, I would like to hand the call back to Colleen so we can take some of your questions.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multipart questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: (OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS). Charles Di Bona, Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLES DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Quickly, one housekeeping question. The accelerated repurchases -- is that built into your guidance here, or is that -- we had a much lower repurchase plan that got us to the prior guidance. Is that reflected here?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, it is. The new guidance is in there, and clearly, we had some expectations of what our prior shape was going to look like in our previous guidance in there. We've got some expectations of what our new shape would be in the new one, but you're correct; it's built in.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Could we also just drill down a little bit on MSN here? You're up 20% year over year. It looks like ad revenue probably declined sequentially from the fourth quarter. Is that correct?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: There's three components, as you know, to MSN. On the narrowband side, that did decline. On the display advertising, that was up. And you are correct on the search side, on the advertising quarter on quarter; it was down.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Can you give a little color of what is happening there? Your competitors in the space are up. Google is up 14% sequentially, Yahoo is up 6% sequentially. You guys are down. Are you losing share dramatically here, or is pricing weaker for you guys? Could you give us some color on what's going on?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's not a volume issue from our perspective. As far as we can see, our volumes are in line. Our marketshare remains probably where it was over the last few quarters. So it's a monetization issue, and that is something that we are clearly going to have to address in the future. It's something that we intend to address through the introduction of our Ad Center platform over -- in the future, which, as Scott mentioned in his remarks, we are testing in Singapore and France at the moment and also starting to test here in the US. So we are conscious of that, and it's certainly something we're going to address in the future.  

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini, UBS Warburg.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: I actually had a follow-up on Charlie's question about the buyback, and then one other one. It seems as if you are front-end loading product launch costs; you referenced that in your comments. But then, what does that imply for when we will see some EPS leverage from the accelerated revenue growth that you're seeing? Should we assume that you are front-end loading a lot of the Vista costs and Office 12 costs, that we actually have to wait until fiscal year '07 until we see that?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. You are correct; the Xbox expenditure does tend to be more concentrated around the launch. So we've certainly seen the impact of that in the last quarter and in this quarter. In terms of the expenditure from a marketing perspective on Office 12 and Vista, that is a more gradual spend, but it has started. So we are already spending money in those areas. And in the Office side, we're also ramping up on the salespeople side, as well. So you are seeing an impact of that from the beginning of the fiscal year. We talked a little bit about that at our last call, but you will see that through the course of this year, going into the launch period at the beginning of next fiscal year.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Because then it would seem as if you didn't raise your buyback assumptions, that we would actually be facing lower EPS than what you originally guided to, based on the higher product launch costs. I just wanted to make sure I'm thinking about that correctly.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, you are. We didn't decrease -- when you look at the operating income, that's probably the easiest way to see it here, though. We haven't changed that number. So all of the marketing spend and the costs associated with the launch are above that. So, to the extent that we kept that the same, we haven't changed our expectations.  

HEATHER BELLINI: And then, the follow-up is just really on Client revenue growth. And I know you walked through this in detail in your comments, but I guess I'm still having a hard time getting to the fact that PC shipments were up as much as they were, but you just don't seem to be as correlated to PC unit growth going forward. And I guess, as PC shipments start to decline, how should we think about the correlation your business would have in that type of environment?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let me walk through the math again. And there are a number of steps, so I'll go through each of them in turn. If you start with overall PC unit growth of, let's say, 17% or thereabouts for the quarter, OEM unit actually grew slightly ahead of that, and we made some positive progress, we believe, on the unlicensed side. So OEM units, from our perspective, were up around 18%. But from that number, there is a couple of impacts. Firstly, the impact of large OEM sales versus small system builder sales, so we had a mix change toward the larger OEMs, where we tend to have smaller prices. And also, the mix in the premium segment was higher towards Media Center than towards Pro sales. And again, that's a lower-margin product. So the combination of those impacts takes us from an 18% unit growth to a 13% revenue growth.  

That's 80% of our business. On the other 20% of our business, which is the retail and commercial side, we saw a 19% decrease. And Scott mentioned that in his comments; there's a number of reasons for that. On the commercial side, we believe people are tending to buy, from a commercial point of view, more through the OEM channel. And on the retail side, there was a high comparable last year with the SP2 sales. And also, we think that is influenced by people waiting for the Windows Vista launch next year.  

So, when you take 80% of our business growing at 13% and 20% of the business declining at 19, you take the weighted average, and you get the 7% that we showed. Now, in terms of how that will go forward, we don't expect that same negative impact going forward, the 19%. To a large extent, most of the decline was through the course of last year, and on a quarter-by-quarter basis going forward, we think in absolute dollar terms, that side of our business will be reasonably flat, and hence the year-on-year comparables will be not as negative as they were. Though we will still probably get a mix change between OEM units and OEM revenue, but that will tend to be more representative of our Client growth.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a follow-up to Charlie's earlier, more clarification, I guess. Clarity in advertising -- wasn't that also a factor in your revenues? Or what was the impact of that on your MSN revenues?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It was an impact. On the positive side, we think it has been important, in terms of our search volumes and in terms of the customer feedback we're getting, which is generally positive. On the negative side, it did have some revenue impact. But I would not overstate that; it was a factor, but not a significant one.  

RICK SHERLUND: And then, a follow-up to Heather's question. If the guidance for the year is unchanged in revenue, which it is, and the operating margins, effectively the operating income is essentially the same and EPS is up $0.01, because you beat by $0.01, excluding the $0.02 charge this quarter, I'm not sure how the math works, as far as baking in already the benefit you get from a lower share count from the repurchase. You're telling us it's already -- the benefit is in there, yet it would seem to me the math would suggest that it's not in there, because operating income is the same as we had before, earnings the same as we had before. I'm not sure how to reconcile those two.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We have been buying, certainly in the last couple of quarters, slightly ahead of the four-year pro rata amount. So you will have seen in the last quarter we bought just over $3 billion worth of shares. In our original forecast, we were assuming that we were going to continue to buy at a reasonably healthy rate this year. So the only benefit we get is the differential between the rate that we were previously assuming that we were going to be buying and the rate that we will now be buying. And when you spread that over two quarters -- because we're halfway through the quarter already, so we won't start buying at the increased rate, obviously, until after this earnings call -- and spread that over that period and then take it over the course of a full year. It doesn't have a dramatic impact in this year. It will have a more significant impact when we get the full-year impact next year. And if you would like, all of the program will be completed against only part of the program.  

RICK SHERLUND: And then, on Xbox, if I count those two previous as follow-ups, the question would be on Xbox unit shipments for the December quarter. Some of us are saying it should be -- we're hearing from the channel maybe 1.5 million units, and it had been 2 to 2.5 or so. Can you give us any clarity on where that number might come out -- or, if you don't want to give a precise number, maybe what we are expecting, in terms of supply constraints? Because it sounds like IBM and Chartered were saying the game processors were meeting their commitments. So I'm not real sure why you wouldn't be shipping more units. If you could give us some clarity there?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. We will be giving more guidance closer to the launch. We are not intending to do that for this quarter, on this call. But we will be giving the first 90 days' guidance closer to the launch. So, sorry; you'll have to wait until then.  

In terms of the shape of the year, it's very much shaping up the way that we had originally foreseen. I know, because we didn't give you guidance for this quarter on the original call, that it's difficult for you to estimate how that would come through. But from our point of view, production and sales are, broadly speaking, in line with how we expected for the year. And we're going to ramp relatively steadily from launch all the way through until the end of the fiscal year. So we will give you some more information in the next few weeks, but no more on this quarter, at this stage.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: You had some management changes in the quarter. We certainly know, I think, why they were done from a strategic standpoint. But can you give us some color, Chris, on how you think about them from the CFO seat?  

And obviously, there's some confusion about -- I think you clarified it -- on the PC unit growth versus revenue growth issues. But can you give us an update of what you're seeing from a pricing standpoint, both on the Client side and the Information Worker side, in the emerging markets?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay, sure, just take the first one. From a CFO point of view, my perspective, seeing Kevin and Jeff and Robbie with a greater presence is positive, from my point of view. Certainly, they are very close to the business. We will see them making a lot more decisions and Steve delegating some responsibility to them. I think, from a general speed-of-decision-making point of view, I'm very happy with that. And also, I'm with them (ph) clearly, just on the overall cost profile. And with Kevin Turner coming in and his experience with a Wal-Mart background, I'm obviously looking forward to working with him in terms of the overall operations for the business.  

So overall, I'm very happy from a management point of view. It gives me some more people to partner with, if you like. And it's a great chance for them to work more directly with the businesses. We are also seeing Ray Ozzie taking more of a presence. I know he's talking next week, but it's great to see him also taking more of a presence. And all of those people I've formed a good relationship with and have a lot of confidence with. So positive messages from my point of view.  

In terms of pricing overall, in the mature markets, I don't believe we've had any significant pricing changes, so to speak. Some mix change, as I mentioned, but the underlying products, I believe, generally speaking, in line with previous quarters. In terms of the emerging markets, again, I don't think there's any significant changes. We have, obviously, a different product range in those emerging markets. But quarter on quarter, the pricing looks similar.  

OPERATOR: Steve Mahedy, Banc of America Securities.  

STEVE MAHEDY, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: My question will be related to database and specifically database demand. With the 1Q 15% year over year in SQL Server, especially in front of the launch, should we expect to see perhaps more linearity in the server line item over the next couple of quarters, rather than perhaps traditional kind of lumpiness?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: What we're seeing in that market is that buying patterns are much more driven around, if you like, commercial needs rather than the launch as such. And that's one of the reasons, probably, the revenue shape is different than perhaps what you were expecting. So we're seeing a much more gradual ramp through the course of the fiscal year, and also a ramp in the second half driven around when some of our contracts mature, which tends to be more in the second half than the first half.  

So you will still see, if you like, different patterns on a quarter-by-quarter basis, driven around contracts when businesses decide to spend their underlying budgets and so forth. So it won't be influenced as heavily as might be expected from the launch, but will be driven by those other factors.  

STEVE MAHEDY: And just a follow-up relative to some of the commentary from the analyst day, on the Linux Winback program. Any update there?  

COLLEEN HEALY: We're seeing a really good value proposition relative to Linux, which as we shared with you at financial analysts day, has just increasingly become more commercialized. And we just feel like our value proposition on the server side is demonstrated by the continued strength that you're seeing overall in that segment, including from Windows Server. It continues to do really well, and we're seeing good progress when we go head-to-head against Linux. Business looks good.  

STEVE MAHEDY: And then, just finally, on the decision to accelerate the buyback or increase the buyback, what were some of the thoughts around that versus perhaps a change to the dividend policy?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I see those decisions as different. We continue to look at our dividend policy and will make decisions about that independently. In terms of the buyback, from my perspective, I'm positive and we are positive about the Company's future and, in particular, the next couple of years. And good capital position -- obviously our cash flows, since we originally announced the buyback, have been strong. And so, from my perspective, it was a good opportunity to accelerate. But I see it as an independent decision from dividend policy.  

OPERATOR: Drew Brosseau, SG Cowen.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: I've got two follow-ups, first on the Xbox. Do you have any comments on what you think volumes of the soon-to-be old console will be? And to the extent that you're supply constrained, do you anticipate ongoing demand for that? Any specific numbers for the fiscal year?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes. We don't have a specific number that we're going to give out, but the general guidance is we continue to believe sales will be good for that. As Scott mentioned, they were a little soft in the first quarter. But overall, we continue to see it. From our point of view, it's really a different target audience, different price point, obviously, altogether, and a different target audience. But overall, we think that there is a good market for that particular product, and we intend to continue to sell it through the rest of the fiscal year.  

DREW BROSSEAU: And then, just a follow-up on the server platform comments. I guess I can understand why the launch might not have an immediate positive effect on growth, but why is it that you're anticipating that growth will actually be softer in the December quarter than it has been over the last several quarters?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: There's no particular factor. It's a reasonably high comparable on the previous year. There may be a little bit of softness going into the launch, last month and this month, just people holding back a little in anticipation of next year. So I don't want to overstate it; it's still around double digits. And from our point of view, there's no particular message you should take from that, just a pattern of the year.  

DREW BROSSEAU: So it's not a comment on anticipated year-end budget flush or anything?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No. We are still sticking with 11 to 13% for the year, good double-digit growth for the year. And if anything, we see a strong second half for the business for the year.  

OPERATOR: Chris Kwak, SIG.  

CHRIS KWAK, ANALYST, SIG: I have two quick questions. One is a follow-up on Rick's question. Just returning to the guidance, the revenue guidance, operating income and EPS and recognizing that the share count will go down, however linear you do the buyback, is there a change in the investment income projections that you guys have that offsets any of the accretion that we would ordinarily expect from the share buyback?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Clearly, as we spend faster, then we will have less to invest. So there is a decrease in the investment income associated with that. So that's an iterative calculation, if you like. And we have built that in.  

CHRIS KWAK: And just on the Xbox 360, I think you said that it would ramp steadily. Did you mean by that that March would be a bigger quarter, in terms of unit volume, than December and that June would be bigger than March? Or how do we think about that progressively?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't want to provide too much detail -- in particular, foreshadow what the launch volumes would be. We are certainly happy to give more detail out, in due course. Clearly, the launch itself will be in the Christmas season, all other things being equal, with a spike. I guess I'm just foreshadowing a constant level of demand. And, from our point of view, we're trying to constantly supply the retail channel so we don't get peaks and troughs through the course of next year.  

CHRIS KWAK: So the ramp steadily is not a comment on the linearity of the unit volumes shipping to the channel.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'd say it's more -- it would be like a concept rather than an economic statement.  

OPERATOR: Laura Lederman, William Blair.  

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Following up on Heather's question earlier, on PC unit demand versus Microsoft, when would you expect those to come in closer? In other words, if you look out later in the year and next year, would you expect a closing of the gap there between unit and dollar volume?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, we would. And in fact, for the year, we are guiding 9 to 11% on the PC unit demand and 6 to 7% for our revenue. So, for the rest of the year, as we don't have that strong retail and commercial impact, we would expect those two numbers to come close to each other.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: What about next year, as well, kind of expanding off that thought?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's a little early to be sort of given guidance, but conceptually, we would see them running in line. Again, the retail and commercial has got to what we consider to be a steady state. And clearly, with Windows Vista coming up, there may be, if anything, some upside there.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: Can you also talk a little bit about small-business accounting, real quickly, and your sort of goals or expectations there? And I realize this is not a big season for it, but just generally what you're seeing so far?  

COLLEEN HEALY: On the Office side, we really see (technical difficulty) coming from a few different sources, both in terms of continuing to improve and innovate on our Office product, which we feel we are doing really well there. We also look to new Office versions and categories, of which you're mentioning one there in the small-business space. We think that small businesses have unique needs that this product offers. And we are really looking forward to being able to tap a new category of users in a deeper way.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: The other thing I'll add to that is the general response we have had from customers has been very positive. So it's very early days. It was just released in September, but the overall response from a product characteristic point of view has been very good.  

OPERATOR: Tom Berquist, Citigroup.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, CITIGROUP: Actually, on the Microsoft Business Solutions, you showed some pretty good growth, I think, up 18%, and mentioned both strength in ERP and CRM. Can you talk a little bit about where those customers are coming from? Are you getting anything from any of the components that Oracle has purchased or about to purchase, or are they coming from any other vendors?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's a very desegregated market, as you know. And there tend to be a large number of very small customers. So I'm not sure I can do a correlation between this customer coming from Oracle and coming to us. The overall comment I'll make is that we are just very happy with the progress we have made there. We do think we are making good strides, and the product range is being well accepted. So I'm sorry; I can't give you sort of a where are we taking share or where we are making benefits, but overall a large number of small customers and doing, generally speaking, well, in particular, in terms of the relicensing.  

TOM BERQUIST: Is there any way to characterize it as competitive replacements versus customers that maybe, historically, didn't have a solution at all?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't have any data on that. I am happy to follow up, if we can find it. But we don't tend to stratify the market that way.  

COLLEEN HEALY: And I do think the point Chris is making, in terms of the market being fragmented with small businesses sort of being generated every day -- there's just a lot of in and out of that market, and we did well there this quarter, which was nice.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: But when we look at other competitors -- for example, SAP -- they were up a similar amount, I believe. So there is probably, to your point, some category growth going on there. But we don't measure it that way.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks so much, and thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our investor relations website through close of business October 27, 2006. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-463-4974 or, for international calls, dial 203-369-1409. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business November 4, 2005. Thanks again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. That does conclude today's Microsoft conference. We thank you for your participation.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c22 : New Products/Services | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051110e1ar003bl
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,939 words
   PD
21 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon. Welcome to the Microsoft 2005 fiscal-year fourth quarter earnings conference. All lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. Please be advised, this call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Ms. Colleen Healy, Senior Director, Investor Relations. Please go ahead, ma'am.  

COLLEEN HEALY, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. This afternoon I am joined by Chris Liddell, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer; Scott Di Valerio, Corporate Vice President, Finance and Administration and Chief Accounting Officer; and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel.  

   TD
Before starting today's call, I would personally like to extend my thanks to Curt Anderson for all of his help in ensuring a smooth transition for me and the Investor Relations team before he entered his next phase at Microsoft where he will be supporting the Enterprise and Partner Customer segment group.  

Today's call will start with Chris providing some key take-aways for fiscal-year 2005, and an overview of expectations for fiscal-year 2006. Scott will then provide details around our fourth quarter results and then turn it back to Chris to discuss our guidance for the fiscal quarter and full fiscal-year 2006. After that, we will take your questions.  

Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights, which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. Additionally, you may want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which provides highlights from the quarter, as well as the reconciliation of difference between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft .  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. A replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on July 21st, 2006.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it, may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this conference call, and in the Management Discussion and Analysis section of our 2005 Form 10-Q, our 2004 Form 10-K, and our reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duties to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Chris.  

CHRIS LIDDELL, CFO, MICROSOFT: Thank you, Colleen. And good afternoon, everyone. We're pleased to be with you today to share our recent results and talk with you about how we see fiscal 2006 shaping up. I'd like to start today's call by highlighting the key points that I'd like you to take away from last year's performance, and also our expectations for next year.  

First, 2005 turned out to be a much better year than we expected. We grew revenue by $3 billion or 8% during the year, versus our original expectation of $1.5 billion and 4%. Not only did we benefit from better-than-expected PC demand and an overall healthy tech economy, as well as favorable foreign exchange rates, we also executed well on a number of fronts.  

Second, our core businesses turned in an excellent performance, with double-digit bookings growth in both the quarter and full year, and unearned revenue finished $350 million over our April guidance. We saw particular strength in the enterprise as our Server products turned in their 12th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth and double their original expectations for the year. On the consumer front, the Home and Entertainment division significantly outperformed expectations in the Xbox console sales, Live memberships and game revenue.  

Third, you will see that we invested more in the business during the fourth quarter than we guided, as variable sales costs were up as we closed more business than expected. We saw an increase in headcount costs as we caught up in our research and development hiring. And we got a jump start on launch-related sales and marketing programs. Looking at the year overall, the fundamentals of the business remained healthy throughout the year, and in particular, we delivered on our promise to grow operating income faster than revenue.  

Finally, we're proud to have been able to return $44 billion to shareholders through dividends and share buybacks, one of, if not the largest one-year payout in Corporate history. This was achieved through our December one-time dividend payout of approximately $33 billion, $3.5 billion in regular dividends, and $8 billion of share buybacks.  

So from where I sit today, fiscal 2006 will be the starting point of an important multi-year product cycle, and what we believe will be a period of improving revenue growth for the Company. So let me make a couple of key points that I would like to you know about fiscal 2006.  

First, looking forward we expect double-digit revenue growth. Overall, our core businesses remain healthy, and despite the age of much of the current product line, we expect to see respectable growth in our desktop products. With the launch of SQL Server and Visual Studio this upcoming quarter, we expect another year of double-digit Server and Tools revenue growth. And on the consumer front, the Xbox 360 platform launch is expected to drive revenue growth in Home and Entertainment in excess of 50%.  

Second, we do expect that the launch of Xbox 360 will have a negative impact on operating margins, given the subsidized console shipments and launch-related marketing spend that you would expect at the beginning of a new hardware cycle. We're obviously excited about this new product and believe that these investments set up the long-term health of our consumer business.  

Third, we're making some big investments in key areas of long-term growth. You're going to hear from us today, with a lot more color and detail at the financial analyst meeting next week, and throughout the coming year, about how we believe these investments will pay off with growth in the future. We're also going to make investments this year to launch Xbox 360 and SQL Server 2005, and we're going to begin investing ahead of the launch of Longhorn and Office 12, which are planned for the second half of 2006.  

So 2006 is going to be an important year for us. We're very pleased with the top-line growth and believe we're making the right investments for our future. So those are some of the high-level themes for 2005 and 2006. I'm going to turn the call over to Scott now for more details on how 2005 fiscal year closed out.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, CORPORATE VP, FINANCE AND ADMINISTRATION AND CHIEF ACCOUNTING OFFICER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Chris. Good afternoon, everyone. As Chris mentioned, Q4 was a strong ending to a very good year for Microsoft. During the quarter, we delivered 9% revenue growth and double-digit bookings growth on the back of healthy broad-based demand across all our customer segments and channels. We made a number of investments during the quarter, with the intention of driving strong product offerings and related revenue growth in FY '06 and beyond. We grew operating income faster than revenue, excluding legal charges. And lastly, we executed against the stock buyback plan we communicated to you at about this time last year.  

To provide more detail on the quarter, I'll start by highlighting top-line financial and business momentum points, followed by revenue performance for each of the business units, then I'll wrap up with an overview of operating income performance, as well as balance sheet and cash flow information. All growth comparisons I've mentioned relate to the comparable quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified.  

Total revenue for the quarter was in line with our guidance at $10.2 billion, representing top-line growth of 9%. Operating income was $3 billion, which includes legal charges for certain antitrust matters of 756 million and stock-based compensation. Earnings per share were $0.34, which includes $0.05 of legal expenses, $0.09 of tax benefits, and stock-based compensation.  

In addition to year-over-year favorable foreign exchange rates, revenue growth was driven primarily by PC and server hardware shipments, which resulted in another strong quarter of performance in our Server and Tools business with growth of 16%, as well as our client growth of 10%. We were also pleased with the strong results posted by Home and Entertainment, Mobile and Embedded and Microsoft Business Solutions.  

The IT spending environment, the PC hardware market, and the server hardware market remains quite healthy and demand was strong across all major customer segments and channels during the quarter. We saw solid booking results across all regions, with the exception of Japan where we continue to see some weakness.  

Our estimate of PC market growth during the quarter of 14 to 16% was stronger than we expected, with growth in consumer PC shipments outpacing business shipments this quarter. Regionally, we saw the strongest growth in Asia Pacific, Greater China, Latin America, and EMEA, with overall PC growth rates in the teens. North America grew in the high-single digits. While growth in Japan remains weak in the low-single digits. Our estimate of total server hardware shipment growth for the full fiscal year of 13 to 14% was in line with our expectations.  

Our mix of product billings for the quarter was consistent year-over-year, with roughly 30% from OEMs, 35% from multi-year licensing agreements, 20% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. From a licensing perspective, we had very strong results across all major offerings with double-digit growth rates for enterprise agreements, government agreements, Select LNSA, and Select and OpenL-only product billings. We had a successful quarter closing multi-year licensing contracts that were up for renewal. We estimate that EE renewal experience remains within our historical range of 66 to 75%.  

Our unearned balance ended the quarter higher than we expected at $9.2 billion. This represents a $1.2 billion sequential increase from Q3 and a 12% increase from the prior year. The multi-year licensing component of the unearned revenue increased by $1.1 billion sequentially, consistent with strong multi-year contract bookings in the quarter. Other unearned revenue increased $119 million to $1 billion, driven primarily by increases in services, MBS, and MSN. Our estimated contracted not-billed balance at the end of June was in line with our expectation, and remains over $8 billion.  

When we think about the relative strength of our business for any given quarter one of the things we think about are total bookings. We were pleased with our Q4 total bookings, which grew at a double-digit rate when taking into account our reported revenue, the change in the unearned balance and the change in contracted not billed.  

Before I get to revenue details for each business group, I'd like to draw out a couple of key points for you to keep in mind about our overall reported revenue growth. First, the uplift from favorable foreign exchange rates was about $210 million for the quarter or 2% -- 2 points of growth. Lower than expected due to some strengthening of the dollar since we gave our guidance in April.  

For the full fiscal year, the uplift from favorable foreign exchange rates was about $870 million, also about 2 percentage points of growth. Second, we feel very good about our reported revenue results for both the quarter and the fiscal year in light of the Upgrade Advantage contract revenue that was recognized in 2004 and not in 2005. Total revenue for Upgrade Advantage contracts was $200 million in the fourth quarter of the prior year, and $1.1 billion for all of fiscal 2004. As you are aware, virtually all of these two-year contracts expired by July 2004, and as a result, we do not have any significant Upgrade Advantage revenue for the quarter or fiscal year.  

Now let's move on to a discussion of revenue by business segments. A strong PC market fueled Client revenue growth of 10% driven by OEM revenue growth of 14%. We saw OEM license units grow 18%, higher than PC market due to the timing of OEM customer purchase patterns. This exceeded our OEM revenue growth of 14% for a couple of reasons.  

First, the mix of premium addition operating systems licensed to OEMs declined 1 percentage point from the prior year to 53% as a result of strong consumer segment growth. And second, changes in the channel mix within the OEM business negatively impacted OEM revenue, as larger OEMs with more favorable pricing made up a higher percentage of sales.  

As we expected entering into the quarter, commercial and retail licensing of Windows operating systems declined by 6%, offsetting some of the growth in the OEM channel. This decrease is primarily attributable to a decline in Upgrade Advantage revenue, and the customers' continued preference for upgrading their PC operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs versus the purchase of a multi-year licensing agreement. We're hopeful that commercial multi-year licensing agreements for Client will begin to turn around as customers get more clarity around the Longhorn product and its launch dates.  

Rapid customer adoption of SQL Server product drove another strong quarter for our Server and Tools businesses, with 16% revenue growth resulting in $2.7 billion of revenue. We saw strong overall demand for our server platform including Windows Server and Exchange.  

SQL momentum was particularly a highlight with revenue growth of over 20%. The results for the quarter kept a very strong year for business, recording its third consecutive year of double-digit revenue growth and improved operating profitability.  

Information Worker revenue grew 3% to $2.9 billion largely in line with our expectations. Information Worker continued to have tough comparables because of $126 million of Upgrade Advantage revenue included in the fourth quarter of the prior fiscal year. However, favorable foreign exchange rates partially offset this factor and added $89 million in revenue for the quarter when compared to the fourth quarter of the prior year.  

Revenue growth in the quarter was driven by sales of Office in the consumer segment and OEM channel, as well as by category product such as Project, Visio, and our real-time communication products, which continue to demonstrate strong growth in terms of both revenue and licenses.  

Solid demand from the Microsoft Business Solutions product lineup resulted in 11% revenue growth. Our suite of line of business applications, our CRM solution and our Microsoft Partner Program resulted in growth of 12% in both license and enhancement plan revenue. Growth for the quarter was offset by expected declines in services revenue as we transition more service-level offerings to our channel partners.  

MSN implemented a program called "Clarity in Advertising" as well as a home page redesign during fiscal 2005. These actions were targeted at improving user experience in enabling us to achieve our strategic objective of sustaining and growing our user base. We believe we're on track to accomplishing these objectives. Among other things, these programs reduce the number of advertisements that are returned for search results or displayed on our home page, leading to lower revenue growth in the short term.  

In addition, the Internet Access business continues to decline as subscribers move to broadband. As a result, MSN reported a decrease in revenue of 1% for the quarter, which was in line with our guidance we gave you in April. Advertising revenue grew 22% during the quarter, partially driven by a true-up in performance-based advertising. This growth is offset by a decline of 41% in our narrowband Internet Access business.  

Overall, we made progress in building our long-term MSN business this year. We continued to grow our user base and delivered a lot of new products and services, such as our new algorithm search engine, desktop search and MSN Spaces.  

Continued momentum in demand from Windows Mobile-based devices drove revenue growth of 39% in the Mobile and Embedded devices business. Revenue growth was driven by Windows Mobile, which grew 43% for the quarter driven by demand for connected devices. Licenses for phone-enabled pocket PCs and smartphones grew in excess of 130% from the prior year. Continued investment in Windows Mobile product lines resulted in a number of significant announcements in the quarter, including the release and manufacturing of Windows Mobile 5.0 and the announcement of messaging and security feature pack for enhanced wireless e-mail functionality.  

Q4 was a strong finish to a great year for Home and Entertainment, which delivered record revenue and improved it operating results by over 800 million in fiscal 2005. Home and Entertainment revenue growth for the quarter was 22%, driven primarily by robust performance across all aspects of the Xbox business. Consoles, first-party software, third-party software, and Live memberships, which resulted in Xbox revenue growth of 46%.  

Demand for Xbox consoles remains strong throughout the quarter. As of June, we had sold 21.9 million consoles worldwide since launch, at the high end of our prior guidance. We sold 14.6 million consoles in North America, 5.5 million in Europe, 1.8 million in Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Results for the quarter capped a record-setting year for Xbox console unit sales.  

Strong first and third-party title flow during the quarter drove significant Xbox software sales growth. Despite a smaller console install base relative to the competition, first-party games, such as Jade Empire and Forza Motorsports helped Xbox titles to beat eight of the top 15 selling games in the U.S. for April and May according to NPD data. Fiscal 2005 Xbox software sales and revenue were also records.  

Xbox Live membership growth continues to beat our expectations with membership doubling to two million worldwide at the end of the quarter. This year-over-year growth is equivalent of adding a new paid member to the service every 30 seconds.  

And momentum for our Microsoft TV business also continues to build. During the quarter we announced British Telecom has chosen Microsoft TV IPTV Edition as the software solution for their upcoming pay TV offering. And we remain on track to deliver our first version of IPTV software to network operators in the fall.  

Now let's finish up with the rest of the income statement and balance sheet. While revenue increased 9%, cost of revenue decreased about 5%. This decrease was mainly due to reductions in the cost per Xbox console, and a reduction in stock-based compensation expense. The remainder of operating expenses increased about $1.1 billion. The primary driver of this increase was $756 million of legal charges related to antitrust matters.  

As Chris mentioned, we did invest more in the business during the quarter than we guided. This investment was focused on the following items -- Higher variability related -- variable expenses related to strong bookings in the quarter that I described earlier; strong levels of hiring and investment in research and development focused on new product development; accelerated sales and marketing spending related to launch readiness for key products such as SQL Server, Visual Studio and Xbox 360, which are slated for release in the first half of fiscal 2006; and lastly, increased hiring for field sales and marketing positions in support of future revenue growth. Even with these investments, when you exclude legal charges, we grew operating income faster than revenue for both the quarter and the year. We believe these investments will continue to serve shareholders well into fiscal '06 and beyond.  

Now to investment income and other, which totaled $872 million and included $361 million in net gains on investments and $156 million in net gains on derivatives, primarily related to gains on equity derivatives and foreign currency contracts. Our reported tax rate for the quarter was 4% reflecting tax benefits associated with the settlement of an IRS audit for fiscal 1997 to 1999, and a repatriation tax benefit provided by the American Jobs Creation Act. As well as an adjustment to lower the effective tax rate primarily as a result of higher income from lower tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate for the quarter and year, excluding the IR settlement and repatriation tax benefit, was 32%.  

Our total diluted shares outstanding for the quarter were 10.8 billion. We increased our stock repurchase activity from the prior quarter and bought back 171 million shares for just over $4.3 billion. Reflecting our optimism about the future of our Company and executing against our previously-announced buyback plan, we repurchased more than 310 million shares for just over $8 billion during the fiscal year. The highest annual amount spent on share repurchase in the Company's history.  

Now let's briefly turn to the balance sheet and cash flow statement. Our balance sheet and cash flow remain very strong. Cash and equivalents and short-term investments were up slightly from the third quarter at $37.8 billion. During the quarter we generated about $4 billion in cash from operations, and $1.5 billion in cash from common stock as a result of exercised employee options. We used $5.2 billion in cash to repurchase stock and pay dividends. Accounts receivable increased during the quarter primarily as a result of strong billings related to multi-year licensing contracts at the end of the quarter. Days sales outstanding ended the quarter at 57 days, which was in line with our historical experience.  

So in summary, a strong ending to a very good year. 9% revenue growth for the quarter and nearly $3 billion of revenue growth for the year. Double-digit bookings growth for both the quarter and the year. Strong levels of investment in the future. Operating income growth in excess of revenue growth for both the quarter and the year. Improvements in operating profitability across all our businesses, particularly Server and Tools, Home and Entertainment, MSN, and MED, and lastly, over $4 billion in stock repurchases during Q4, and over $44 billion returned to shareholders for the fiscal year.  

With that let me turn it over to Chris who will provide you with our expectations for Q1 and fiscal 2006.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Thanks, Scott. I'm going to spend my remaining time on the call giving you a view of what we see coming for the full year and the first quarter. Before we get into the specific guidance, let me outline some of the key assumptions around the economy and general demand in the industry. In general, we think the economy remains stable on a global basis, with North America in a little better shape than Asia Pacific and Europe. We did see corporate profits improve slightly in the fourth quarter and expect some of that improvement to carry into the first half of fiscal-year 2006.  

IT spending also looks reasonably good. It's too early to tell what the longer term outlook is for both corporate profits and IT spending. However, we remain optimistic about the role that technology will continue to play in the global economy and our ability to participate in the opportunities created in the marketplace. So our general assumption in the 2006 forecast is that we're expecting a broad continuation in the economic conditions and demand from where we exited 2005.  

We expect PC unit demand to moderate, remain healthy. Unit demand for fiscal 2006 is expected to be 7 to 9% for the year, and between 9 to 10% for the first quarter. PC growth will be higher in the smaller and medium business and consumer segments than in enterprise. And we're expecting growth to be reasonably balanced across most geographies with double-digit growth in Asia Pacific. We expect the total server market to grow at 11 to 13% for the year.  

I'll also point out that our guidance assumes that there will not be any significant fluctuations in foreign exchange rates during the year. Given the strengthening of the dollar late in fiscal 2005, we are expecting about a 1 percentage point drag on revenue from foreign currency in fiscal 2006.  

Now let me go through our detailed guidance. For the full year, we expect our revenue to come in between $43.7 to $44.5 billion, growing at 10 to 12%. I'll go through specific business units in a moment. However, our growth is driven in large part by a healthy commercial business and the launch of Xbox 360. For the first quarter, we expect revenue of $9.7 to $9.8 billion, which represents a growth of 6 to 7%. There are a couple of items to note when you consider our first quarter revenue.  

First, PC unit growth, while still healthy, is flowing from fiscal-year '05. Second, we expect Server and Tools growth to slow slightly leading up to the SQL Server 2005 launch. Third, we also expect our Xbox business to show a slower first quarter as the remaining first-party titles released this year will be for the Xbox 360 platform, currently scheduled for launch this holiday. And finally, year-over-year comps on Information Worker are particularly difficult given that the prior year benefited from strong product demand earlier in the life of Office 2003.  

Given the timing of our key product launches in the fiscal year, you should expect revenue to be stronger beginning in quarter 2, as Xbox 360, SQL Server and Visual Studio launch. You should also expect operating margins to improve in the second half of the year, as we have significant marketing spend planned in the first half of the year to support those new product launches, and a continuation of the large global advertising campaigns from fiscal-year '05.  

With that, revenue guidance by business unit is as follows-- For Client we expect full-year growth to be 5 to 6% and quarter 1 growth to be 6 to 7%. This is on PC demand of 7 to 9% for the year. We do expect modest improvement in the non-OEM portion of business and expect the OEM portion of the business to grow roughly in line with the market.  

Server and Tools revenue should grow 11 to 13% for the year, and 10 to 12% for the quarter. Despite facing tough comparables in nearly every quarter of fiscal 2006, Windows Server 2003, the new SQL Server, the new Visual Studio and Exchange SP2 should drive the continued good results in the Server and Tools business.  

Information Worker revenue should grow 5 to 6% for the year, and about 3 to 4% for the quarter. While Office 2003 is is now late in the product cycle, and we would normally expect to see slowing growth in the year leading up to the launch of a new version of the product, we expect the growth in 2006 to come broadly from all customer segments, and from the broad portfolio of Information Worker products, including the Office Small Business Accounting product, which will launch in September.  

Microsoft Business Solutions is expected to grow 10 to 11% for the year, and should come in just over $170 for the quarter. We expect revenue growth to come from continued performance in our line of business applications, including CRM 3.0 and Axapta 4.0 that launched later in the year. Independent research firms estimate the overall market for line of business applications to grow between 6 to 7% in fiscal 2006. MSN revenue is expected to grow 2 to 4% for the year and 5 to 6% for the quarter. We expect the advertising component of this business to grow nearly 20% during the year, offset by a continued decline in the access business.  

The Mobile and Embedded Devices business is expected to grow to over $310 million in 2006, and at just under $70 million for the first quarter. Beginning in fiscal 2006, the MED point business will be reflected in the MSN segment. The impact of the reorganization is expected to be around $100 million in fiscal 2006.  

Finally, with the launch of Xbox 360 in the second quarter, Home and Entertainment is expected to grow over 50% for the year. We anticipate revenue will contract by about 5 to 7% during the first quarter, again the remaining first-party titles released this year will be for the Xbox 360. We'll be providing more color regarding the Xbox 360 platform as we get closer to launch.  

Operating income for the year is expected to be between $18.3 and $18.8 billion, growing at 25 to 29%. For the quarter, we expect operating income growth to be between $4.3 and $4.5 billion with growth of 23% and 28%. As always, our operating income is inclusive of cost of stock-based compensation.  

You should be mindful of the following key points when evaluating our operating income. We're maintaining double-digit growth in operating income despite the impact of Xbox 360, and the incremental investments we're making in long-term growth drivers for the business. And if you isolate the impact of Xbox 360 on operating income, we continue to grow operating income faster than revenue in fiscal 2006.  

We're also investing heavily in the current year to support other launches, including SQL Server and Visual Studio and other long-term growth opportunities. We'll begin these investments in the first half of the year and we'll benefit revenue in the second half of the current year, as well as future years. We also plan to invest in 2006 to ensure success of Longhorn on Office 12. These investments will drive return in fiscal 2007 and beyond when we launch those products.  

And as usual, we continue to invest R&D dollars in a number of strategic areas, ranging from communication and collaboration technologies, to security, to work on the consumer space. Over the full year, we're achieving our investment objectives before the impact of Xbox while still maintaining our operating margin.  

Cost of goods sold should increase by about 2 points for the year, resulting mainly from subsidies on the Xbox 360 consoles we'll sell. We expect cost of goods sold margins to improve over time, as console costs decline and software and peripherals are sold into a growing installed base.  

I should also take a moment to remind you that going forward we're no longer breaking out stock-based compensation charges in the guidance that we provide. We firmly believe that stock-based compensation is a true expense of our business, and expect that analysts and investors will begin to include the impact of compensation in the financial statements in their models.  

There are, of course, risks to any business plan and we're no exception. Aside from our normal competitive, legal, and general market risks, in particular PC and server growth rates, we have our share of execution risks in the next year. Our plan relies on some major products launching and our ability to connect with customers once the products are in the market. And given the fact that we have a sizable international business, we always face a certain amount of currency risk.  

Diluted earnings per share for the year expected to come in at $1.27 to $1.32, and $0.29 to $0.31 for the quarter. These earnings assume an effective tax rate of 32% in both cases. From a balance sheet perspective, I'll point out that we expect unearned revenue to finish fiscal 2006 up 8 to 10%. Contracted not billed should also finish 2006 up from the roughly $8 billion this year.  

So to wrap up, the fourth quarter served as a strong close to what turned out to be a very good year on its own, and terrific when compared to what we expected coming into the year. Our landmark $44 billion return to shareholders returned meaningful -- marked meaningful progress towards the $75 billion program that we announced at the beginning of the year. The program in its entirety and the progress that we've made during the year in terms of returning cash to shareholders, clearly reinforces our confidence in our future prospects.  

2006 is also shaping up very well. We're looking to generate double-digit revenues and operating income growth even as we launch Xbox 360 and invest for our future. The core of our business remains healthy and our newer businesses are showing improved growth. I see a business that can provide meaningful return to its shareholders. Momentum continues at the top line, and we're at the beginning of a very important product cycle. We have the ability to generate significant growing cash flow and returns to shareholders over the next few years.  

Finally, I'm looking forward to meeting many of you next week at our financial analyst meeting. We have a great meeting planned. You'll hear from our business leaders and get more color on the themes we've discussed today and our thoughts for 2006 and beyond.  

So we've left some time for questions. I'll hand the call over to Colleen so we can get started. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Chris. Let's now proceed to questions. We want to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and limit yourself to just one question, please. Operator, will you please repeat your instructions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. [OPERATOR INSTRUCTIONS] Our first question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. I was wondering, Chris, if you could -- I know you're not giving detailed guidance about stock-based comp, but it was roughly, I don't know, 2.4 billion or so in fiscal-year '05. Should we expect the same decline percentage-wise year-over-year as you had in fiscal-year '05 over fiscal-year '04?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Heather, we really are encouraging people to look at the results after stock-based compensation. I am happy to say that it will be a decline in fiscal-year '06 relative to fiscal-year '05, but at this stage we're not giving any more details than that.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Then I guess just the other question would be, sales and marketing did seem to come in a few points higher than what you guys were expecting. I was just wondering, was this due to the strong quarter of deferred that you had in terms of maybe extra commission payout?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, it was a couple of factors. That's one of them. It was both the revenue that we earned in the quarter and also, obviously, the revenue we expect to earn this year, which is reflected to some extent in the unearned revenue balance. We also did spend some money in terms of marketing in anticipation of the Xbox 360, so it was both in the generation of new revenue, but also in general marketing.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you, Heather. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Drew Brosseau with SG Cowen.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Thanks. Hi, Chris. I'm wondering about your comments on operating income for the first quarter, math says it's about 45% operating margin, that's about as high as you've ever seen. Wondering what is behind the strength of margins in that quarter?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I wouldn't take too much from the quarter as such. There is obviously some variation over the year as a result of Xbox. If I take Xbox out of the discussion, because that does change things with the subsidy at the COGS level, then margins overall for the year we're expecting to be broadly the same year-on-year. For the quarter, I'll have to look at the exact numbers. I don't think there's anything particular happening in the quarter that you should take any significance from.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Drew. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Charlie DiBona with Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Hi, Chris. I was wondering if you can just update us briefly on the status of the Longhorn beta, if it's still coming out before BDC. Can you also talk a little bit about MBS? It's a bit of a pet peeve of mine. We had been talking about getting to break-even by this quarter, in fact, the run rate seems to be deteriorating. Can you talk about some of the drivers there and when we might see some turnaround in the profitability of that segment.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. In terms of the betas, we are still expecting Longhorn beta to be summer this year, and Office 12 slated to be fall, so we're sticking to the previous guidance we've given there, and we're looking for them to be both generally available in the second half of next year, so no change on either of those.  

In terms of MBS, there is one factor which Scott mentioned as he went through in terms of a change in organizational design, and that did actually influence the results and that did cost MBS in the quarter. If you net that out, from a revenue point of view we were reasonably happy with MBS, accrued 11% in the quarter and we're looking at double-digit revenue growth for next year, 10 to 11% for the year and 10 to 15% for the quarter.  

So, overall, we're happy with the revenue growth, clearly we would like to see that business in profitability as well. We are not likely to see that in this coming year, but we're still driving towards anticipation of profitability in the following year. So I agree with your comments about overall level, but there are -- there is one factor underlying it, and also on the revenue basis, we're reasonably happy. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just so we're looking apples to apples, I'm wondering if you can tell me for this next year how much of a margin improvement benefit might be attributable to the lower stock-based compensation number?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: It's really the same answer there, sorry, as I gave Heather. We're not giving out specific numbers there. We see -- and this really is a philosophical issue as much as anything else. We see equity comp as part of the overall cost structure in the Company and we're managing that as well as all the other factors we are. So the best guidance I can give you is despite the increased level of investments that we're having for some of the launches coming up, and despite the Xbox factor, we are still keeping our margins next year similar to the margins that we had for last year.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Rick. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Adam Holt with J.P. Morgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Good afternoon. It looked like the upside on the unearned was largely in Server and Tools, which was particularly strong even though we've obviously got a couple of upcoming product releases. Can you comment a little bit more detail about mix between services and product in the unearned? And separately, when you mention an Xbox launch this fall, do you mean a worldwide launch before the holidays or just U.S.? Thanks.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let me try and get you some numbers on your first question while I talk about Xbox. Xbox is worldwide, although, obviously, it's concentrated more heavily in the developed countries, the U.S. and Europe. So we're anticipating a significant demand on a worldwide basis and it's likely that we're going to struggle to meet that demand. So we're most heavily concentrating in the U.S., Europe and Japan.  

On the spread of unearned, perhaps I can come back to you on that when we've got some numbers in front of us.  

ADAM HOLT: Great. Thank you.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Laura Lederman with William Blair.  

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Yes, two questions, one specifically, can you talk a little bit about database demand and where that's coming from? Is it largely server units? What other factors are impacting it? And also, on a high level of returning cash to shareholders going forward, what are your thought in terms of dividend versus share buybacks, acquisitions, just discussion at a very high level would be helpful. Thank you.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Let's start with the second one first. In terms of overall philosophy, we're obviously happy with the progress we made on the share buyback during the quarter, as Scott mentioned. We had a high level of buyback, and in doing that we achieved $8 billion for the year, which is broadly in line with our fourth year commitment for $30 billion. So we continue to see that as a significant part of our cash return to shareholders. We also achieved, obviously, the major one-off dividend and the regular dividends last year. At this stage, we're not anticipating any changes in that philosophy. We continue to have very strong cash flows and very well positioned from a cash perspective, and we'll continue the programs that we've got in place.  

On the Server and Tools you are correct that we had very good performance in Server and Tools, in particular SQL Server was very good and well positioned, so overall, that helped us grow the server market 10 to 11% in the quarter and 13 to 14% for the whole year. So that double-digit growth was driven by the database area.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: Why did the database do so well? Are you gaining market share? Who are you gaining it from? Are you penetrating new type of accounts that haven't traditionally bought your database? In other words, what's driving the strength?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No one particular factor that I can point out. Scott, do you want to help me out there?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Sure. Again, the Server and Tools obviously had 16% revenue growth, really strong in the multi-year billings which drove up our unearned balance in Server and Tools, 500 million sequentially. If you take a look at it we had -- we are holding and doing well with the overall server growth. If you look, put in the past, ourselves and Linux were taking -- continuing to grow at the expense of UNIX and we continue to see that as we look up against our overall position, we're very comfortable where it's at today.  

I really do think it's a matter of us having good growth in the server market, as well as being able to sign our multi-year deals and having a good strong renewal process in the fourth quarter.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: And the growth rate in SQL is around 20%, so that's faster than our competitors. We obviously attribute that to just a generally good offering and good marketing.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Tom Berquist with Smith Barney.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. I know it's still a ways off, but as you start to make the moves towards the Longhorn cycle and the Office 12 cycle, do you have any preliminary thoughts on kind of what you expect to happen to demand with PCs, particularly with consumers and small businesses? They seem to be much more willing to wait for the OEM channel.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: We've -- as you see from our guidance, we're still looking next year at growth rates of around 5 to 6%, so we're not building into our anticipations any particular acceleration associated with that launch. That's really going to be an FY '07 phenomena. We're looking at growth rates for the year next year broadly equal to the year that we've just come out of.  

TOM BERQUIST: Actually, I meant the opposite. Do you feel as the year winds down you'll actually see growth rates fall as people anticipate Longhorn?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No, if anything, we would say in the period that we've just come out of, the lack of clarity on some of the timing associated with Longhorn is probably meant some people have been holding off, and if anything, is that clarity comes through with particular dates, we would see some of those people who have been holding off perhaps coming back in. So if you look at our trends inside the commercial and retail area, which was a negative last year, we're anticipating over the course of next year for it to be a slight positive. And offsetting a slightly lower overall PC market growth next year relative to the year that we've just come out of.  

TOM BERQUIST: Got it. Thanks.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Jason Maynard with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Hi. Good afternoon. Just to follow up on that question, can you maybe comment a little bit about what you might have to do in terms of additional or incremental marketing spend, perhaps if there is some type of dip in demand and what you can do to communicate to a consumer that they would actually be ready with the current hardware purchase for Longhorn? And then maybe any commentary on mix shift between XP Pro and XP Home on that front?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Sure. You cut out on a couple of words, but hopefully I got your question there. In terms of marketing spend, we're clearly beginning marketing spend and we have built that into our numbers for the next year, so we have, for example, the Start Something program which is literally just kicked off recently. So we're beginning the marketing spend if you like coming towards Longhorn, and we've built those numbers in. We've been able to make savings in other areas. We anticipate a greater marketing spend next year offset by other savings, and that was my comment before about keeping our margins broadly the same.  

In terms of the mix of Pro versus Home, we are anticipating a decline in that next year as well, but going into the Longhorn cycle, we think that will be extremely helpful in reversing that trend.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thanks, Jason. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Brent Thill with Prudential.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL: Chris, embedded in your guidance of -- if you could just talk about the characteristics of the mid-market versus enterprise spending. The PC growth forecast that you gave us suggests higher growth in mid-market next year versus enterprise. Does that match your forecast for software as well?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Can we get back to you on that one?  

BRENT THILL: Sure.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I don't have any of those details in front of me. I'm sorry.  

BRENT THILL: And if you could -- just on the Xbox, the 50% growth for next year, does that embed continued production of Xbox 1 once Xbox 360 comes alive?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Yes, it does. We expect to continue to sell throughout next year and anticipate continued strong sales in that area.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Operator, we have time for two more questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Chris Clock with SIG.  

CHRIS CLOCK (ph), ANALYST, SIG: Just two questions. On the SQL Server side, you've obviously seen a great deal of strength, what's the concern with -- do you have any concerns with multi-year billings being so strong and heading into the launch of SQL Server 2005 and what the strength recently could mean in terms of impact to 2005 bookings when that product launches?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: No. In fact, the opposite. We feel like we've got good momentum there and that momentum is going to continue or increase, and that's embedded, if you like, in our guidance and our basic belief that the second half of the fiscal year will be very strong in that -- in the server area.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Great. Our last question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question comes from Michael Cohen with Pacific American Securities.  

MICHAEL COHEN, ANALYST, PACIFIC AMERICAN SECURITIES: Yes, I was hoping you would be willing to provide us some thoughts on linearity in the fourth quarter and were there any surprises with regard to regular seasonal patterns in any of your businesses?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: I'm sorry, can you ask that again?  

MICHAEL COHEN: Sure. I was hoping you would be providing some thoughts on linearity within the fourth quarter, and were there any surprises with regard to regular or seasonal patterns on any of the individual businesses?  

CHRIS LIDDELL: Okay. I didn't entirely understand what you meant by linearity. From a seasonal point of view, no, there were no particular surprises. Clearly, from a fourth quarter point of view, it's a very strong quarter for us, and if anything, we were surprised, pleasantly on the upside and that's reflected in the overall level of billings and the unearned income that we finished the year with. So the fourth quarter is typically stronger for us and it was particularly strong this quarter. So that would be, I would say, the only seasonal aspect to the quarter.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Great. Thank you.  

CHRIS LIDDELL: And just to come back on a couple of questions, we had a couple of questions outstanding. We'll come back directly to the people concerned on those.  

COLLEEN HEALY: Thank you everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or my team directly. As I mentioned at the beginning of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business July 21st, 2006. In addition, you can hear the replay by dialing 866-385-0195, or for international calls dial 203-369-0392. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business July 21st -- July 29th, 2005. Thanks again for joining us today and see you at the financial analyst meeting.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050804e17l002xm
  


 HD
 Q3  2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,409 words
   PD
28 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and welcome to the Microsoft third quarter fiscal year 2005 earnings conference. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of today's conference. Please be advised this call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Curt Anderson, General Manager, Investor Relations.  

   TD
CURT ANDERSON, GENERAL MANAGER IR, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone and thanks for joining us today.  

This afternoon I'm joined by Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller, and John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel. Our new CFO, Chris Liddell will be starting with the Company in early May and will not be joining us on today's call. We're looking forward to having Chris on board and to getting Chris out to meet with investors in the coming months.  

Today's call will follow our normal format. I'll start out by providing some color around our third quarter results and then turn it over to Scott to review our guidance for the fourth quarter and our first look at guidance for the full fiscal year of 2006. After that we'll take your questions.  

Consistent with the second quarter, we filed our 10-Q today in conjunction with our earnings release, and as a result you should have available the earnings release, MD&A, financial statements, and the footnotes. In addition, you may want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck which provides highlights from the quarter.  

As always, you can find the earnings release, the 10-Q, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations Web site at microsoft.com/msft.  

Today's call will be recorded so please be aware that if you decide to ask a question it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live Web cast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations Web site. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on April 27, 2006.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the management's discussion and analysis section of our 2005 Form 10-Qs, our 2004 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that, let me turn to a detailed discussion of the results.  

I'd like to start by highlighting a few significant financial and business momentum points. Then I'll cover revenue performance for each of the business units and finish with an overview of our operating income performance and some balance sheet and cash flow information. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.  

Total revenue for the quarter was $9.6 billion, representing top line growth of 5%. Operating income was $3.3 billion including stock-based compensation and legal charges of $768 million. Earnings per share were $0.23 including the stock-based compensation, and $0.05 of legal expenses.  

In addition to the benefit to revenue associated with year-over-year favorable foreign exchange rates, revenue growth was driven primarily by another strong performance in our Server and Tools business, which had growth at 12%, the eleventh consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth for this business.  

We are also pleased with the strong results posted by Home and Entertainment, and our Mobile and Embedded businesses which had revenue growth of 12% and 31% respectively.  

I'd also like to point out that the quarter played out largely as expected. Our slight revenue miss was driven primarily by the combination of unfavorable exchange rate movements since we gave you guidance in January, and a greater than expected decline in commercial and retail licensing for the Client business. Excluding legal charges, we delivered operating income and EPS in line with our guidance.  

Last quarter we said we expected total PC unit shipments worldwide to grow by about 9% during the third quarter. Actual growth came in just a touch higher at about 10%.  

Growth in business PC shipments continued to outpace consumer shipments this quarter, with the strongest growth coming from Latin America, EMEA, greater China, and Asia Pacific, where the overall PC growth rates were all in the low teens. North America, which accounts for about one-third of the market, grew less than 5%, and was weaker than we'd expected. PC growth in Japan continues to be fairly weak.  

We estimate that during the quarter, total server hardware unit shipments grew at about 9%, which was lower than our projection of about 15%. Windows server hardware shipments grew in line with overall market growth.  

From a licensing perspective, we saw overall strength year-over-year in Enterprise, Select, LNSA, and Select L only. Overall, the mix of product sales was consistent year-over-year with roughly 35% our revenue from OEMs, 25% from annuity license agreements, another 25% from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. This mix does fluctuate somewhat from quarter-to-quarter.  

Unearned revenue was down just $25 million sequentially, with the amount deferred during the quarter essentially the same as that earned at $3.2 billion. The undelivered elements in multi-year licensing components of unearned revenue decreased a combined $218 million in line with our expectations and were offset by an increase of just over $190 million in other unearned revenue.  

The other unearned revenue category has grown to over $900 million and represents primarily unearned revenue from services, TV platforms, Microsoft Business Solutions, and MSN advertising.  

The value of the unbilled portion of multi-year contracts is not reflected in our balance sheet as we often invoice customers for those contracts on an annual basis. Our contracted not billed balance declined sequentially but remained healthy at over $8 billion.  

Before I get into the revenue retails for each business group, I would like to draw out a couple of key points to keep in mind about our overall revenue growth.  

First, the uplift from favorable foreign exchange rates was $188 million for the quarter, slightly lower than expected due to some strengthening of the dollar since we last gave you guidance in January. Based on current exchange rate versus those of during Q4 of the prior year, we anticipate continued foreign exchange benefit primarily in our Information Worker and Server and Tool segments.  

Second, total revenue for upgraded Vantage contracts was $261 million in the third quarter of the prior year. As you are aware, virtually all of these two-year contracts expired by July of 2004, and as a result, we did not have any significant upgraded Vantage revenue this quarter.  

Now let's move on to a discussion of revenue by business segment.  

Client revenue grew just over 2% to about $3 billion. PC shipment growth was lower than last year but still healthy.  

Windows OEM license units grew 10% in line with PC market growth, which drove a 7% growth in OEM revenue. Premium mix in the OEM channel declined by 1 percentage point to 49%, which was one reason for the gap between OEM license unit growth of 10% and OEM revenue growth of 7%.  

To be clear, in the past we've provided a premium mix for the entire Client business. This quarter we are providing the premium mix for just the OEM channel as we believe it is a more meaningful statistic to help you understand our results.  

In addition, channel mix and changes to the product lies in deferral rates of products in unearned revenue also contributed to the difference.  

The increase in revenue in the OEM channel was partially offset by an 18% decrease in revenue from commercial and retail licensing of Windows operating systems. This decrease is primarily attributed to a decline in upgraded Vantage revenue and the customers continued preference of upgrading the operating system to the OEM channel when they replace their PCs rather than through an annuity contract.  

Although the decline in commercial and retail licensing revenue has been a little steeper than we'd expected, I do want to point out that a slowdown in finished package product sales and in annuity contracts is relatively normal at this point in a products' life cycle. We're hopeful that annuity licensing for Client will begin to turn around as customers get more clarity around the Longhorn product and its launch dates.  

Revenue from Server and Tools grew 12%, to $4.2 billion driven by growth in SQL Server, Exchange Server, and core CAL revenue. SQL and Exchange demonstrated continue strength and momentum with over 15% and 20% growth respectively.  

We estimate that Windows-based server shipments grew about 9% during the quarter, which was in line with growth in the overall server hardware market.  

Information Worker revenue grew 2% to $2.8 billion, largely in line with our expectations. Information Worker continues to have tough comparables because of $161 million of upgraded Vantage revenue included in the third quarter of the prior fiscal year, as well as the fact that fiscal 2004 was the launch year of Office 2003.  

Favorable foreign exchange rates partially offset these factors and added $81 million in revenue for the quarter when compared to the third quarter of the prior year.  

Revenue growth in the quarter was driven by sales of Office in the small and medium-sized business and consumer segments, as well as by category products such as Project and Video, which continue to demonstrate strong growth in terms of both revenue and licenses.  

Revenue from Microsoft Business Solutions was up 3% during the quarter at $185 million. Growth in license and enhancement revenue for this business was driven by double-digit growth in core ERP customer editions, offset by a reduction in services revenue and revenue from the online business.  

During the quarter, Business Solutions held its largest ever customer conference where we introduced our next generation product road map which received consistently strong praise from industry analysts, partners, and customers.  

As we mentioned last quarter, MSN implemented a program in the first half of this fiscal year called "Clarity in Advertising", which was aimed at improving the user experience on MSN Search. In addition, we implemented a home page redesign during the third quarter.  

Among other things, these programs reduced the number of advertisements that are returned [ to a] search results or displayed on our home page and leads to lower revenue growth in the short term. We believe that improving the user experience by reducing the number of advertisements is the right long-term strategy in order to sustain and grow our user base.  

MSN reported a decrease in revenue of $27 million or 5%, in line with the guidance we gave you in January, with advertising revenue growing 4% and narrowband access revenue declining 28%.  

In addition to releasing our algorithm search engine, we were also pleased to see total active Hotmail accounts to exceed 200 million for the first time. Momentum and innovation in the growth of our overall user base is extremely promising and is important in our long-term plans to drive revenue growth and profitability in this business.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue continues to show strength growing 31% to $80 million during the quarter. The results for the quarter were driven primarily by our Windows Mobile product line with revenue growth of 32%.  

Windows Mobile licenses for connected devices such as phone-enabled pocket PCs and smart phones, more than doubled from the prior year.  

Revenue for Home and Entertainment grew 12% to $593 million, driven by strong demand for both consoles and Xbox Live memberships. Console unit sales remained very strong, with unit growth of over 40% year-over-year for the quarter.  

Strong demand combined with limited inventory exiting Q2 resulted in tight console inventory in the channel throughout the quarter. In response, we've increased production and believe that console supply and consumer demand have been brought into a healthier balance entering Q4.  

Now let's finish up the rest of the income statement and the balance sheet.  

While revenue increase 5%, cost of revenue decreased about 1% and remained consistent at 15% of total revenue. This decrease was driven primarily by lower stock-based compensation expense combined with lower cost of sales in MSN and in H&E. This was partially offset by an increase in client-related cost of sales.  

The remainder of operating expenses, excluding cost of goods sold, decreased $1.6 billion, driven primarily from lower legal charges and lower stock-based compensation.  

Last year we had $2.5 billion of charges related to the settlement of the Sun Microsystems litigation and the fine imposed by the European Commission. This quarter we recorded $768 million in legal charges related to antitrust and other matters.  

Investment income and other decreased $505 million to $496 million. This decrease is primarily due to a smaller portfolio balance following the payment of our special dividend in December and to lower overall yields.  

We had fewer sales and investments during the quarter which drove a decrease of $325 million in net gains on investments. Net gains on investments also include $93 million of other than temporary impairments this quarter.  

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33% as we expected, and our total diluted shares outstanding were 10.9 billion as expected. We bought back 95.1 million shares for just over $2.4 billion this quarter.  

I point out that our share repurchase activity was weighted towards the latter half of the quarter, and as such had a minimal impact on diluted shares outstanding.  

Let's turn to the balance sheet and cash flow statement.  

Cash and equivalents in short-term investments increase by almost $3.1 billion to $37.6 billion during the quarter and was driven by five, roughly 5 billion in cash generated from operations, offset by cash used to repurchase stocks and pay dividends.  

Accounts receivable decreased during the quarter primarily as a result of the sequential and seasonal decline in revenue.  

DSO was at 52 days this quarter, which is a day higher than last year at this time. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number so it is consistent with what is included in receivables.  

Now I'd like to turn it over to Scott who will give you some additional color on our performance this quarter, give you some thoughts about the macroeconomic environment, and give you guidance on the results we are expecting in Q4, as well as our first look at guidance for fiscal 2006.  

Scott?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, CORPORATE VP, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Curt, and good afternoon, everyone.  

We had a good quarter and a good fiscal year-to-date. Before unfavorable foreign exchange rate movements, the quarter came in largely in line with our expectations overall.  

There have been mixed results in technology industry recently, and uncertainty in regards to the strength in IT environment. For our read is that IT and corporate spending were healthy during the quarter.  

Let me just mention a few highlights on Q3's performance before turning to guidance.  

Server and Tools had yet another quarter of double-digit revenue growth as this business consistently comes through for us. SQL and Exchange are firing on all cylinders with over 15% and 20% growth respectively. Information Worker delivered on our expectations despite tough comparables in a prior year.  

We continue to make progress on delivering new, realtime communication and collaboration capabilities with our acquisition of Groove Networks, the introduction of Microsoft Office Communicator 2005, and Microsoft Office Live Meeting 2005.  

Microsoft Business Solution is getting traction with customers and partners. We had double-digit growth in our core ERP customer additions, and convergence was well attended and customer enthusiasm for our products and road map was great.  

In regards to MSN, we have launched significant customer satisfaction initiatives over the past nine months. While it's too early to see the financial returns that we expect from these investments, we are confident that this strategy will pay off in the long-term.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices benefiting from the success of our platform, from the success our platform is experiencing on Mobile form factors. The Windows Mobile software platform continues to experience strong momentum with developers, manufacturers, and Mobile operators.  

There are currently over 380,000 active Windows Mobile professional developers, and over 18,000 Windows Mobile applications. In addition, there are over 40 device manufacturing partners and over 65 Mobile operators in 48 countries currently shipping Windows Mobile-based devices.  

Home and Entertainment is having phenomenal success. And although Xbox tends to take the spotlight, we continue to make progress on our Microsoft TV initiatives.  

During the quarter, we announced a commercial licensing agreement with Verizon for Microsoft TV to be the software platform for TV deployments that will start later this year. We also announced an agreement with BellSouth to launch a trial for next generation television services, and a strategic worldwide cooperation agreement with Alcatel.  

Comcasts' deployment of Microsoft TV Foundation Edition is progressing well with Washington state being the first deployment area. We expect all Comcast digital cable customers in Washington state will be upgraded to Foundation Edition by the end of the quarter.  

In short, business was good during the quarter and solid business fundamentals remain in place which is reflected for our guidance for the fourth quarter and fiscal '06.  

Now let me turn to the details of our guidance for the June quarter, beginning with our assumptions for key macro drivers.  

IT and corporate spending appeared healthy during the quarter, and we believe that spending will remain steady through our fiscal year, despite uncertainty around the impact that variability and macroeconomic factors might have on corporate profits.  

For the full-year fiscal '05, we continue to expect PC shipments to grow 9 to 11%. We expect business PC unit growth to continue to exceed that of consumer. For the fourth quarter, we expect roughly 10 to 12% growth.  

We continue to expect full-year server shipments to grow 13 to 15%, and we expect the Windows server platform to grow faster than the over overall server segment.  

Now to revenue.  

Revenue for the fourth quarter should grow 9 to 10% to 10.1 to $10.2 billion. Fiscal year 2005 should be in the range of 39.7 to $39.8 billion, up 8% from the prior year.  

Let's break revenue down by business group, and unless I mention otherwise, guidance is for the fourth quarter and all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year, starting with Client.  

We expect Client revenue to grow 8 to 9%. As we have noted in the past quarters, this growth rate for both the full-year and fourth quarter is lower than the PC unit growth expectations, primarily due to a decrease in revenue from commercial and retail licensing and stronger relative PC unit shipments in emerging markets where piracy rates are higher.  

Server and Tools revenue should increase 16 to 17% driven by broad platform strength, especially with the flagship products, Windows Server, SQL, and Exchange.  

Information Worker revenue should be up 3 to 4% driven by continued strength in office sales and to consumer and academic segments, as well as growth in our category products.  

Microsoft Business Solution revenue is expected to be over $245 million.  

MSN revenue is expected to be flat to down 2% as our narrowband access business continues to decline, and as the Clarity in Advertising program and home page redesign reduce short-term monetization. The investment in this strategy should improve the user experience which will drive long-term revenue growth and profitability.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue should be up to almost $90 million, representing 26 to 27% growth, driven by market momentum for devices based on Windows Mobile software.  

Home and Entertainment revenues should be up 20 to 22%. We expect continued market momentum behind the Xbox platform driven by strong console sales, Xbox Live memberships, and a highly rated lineup of first and third party software titles.  

Let me turn to unearned revenue and contracted not billed.  

When modeling your unearned estimates for the June quarter you should consider the following factors. First, there's a significant amount of multi-year contract value up for renewal in Q4 primarily as a result of the conversion to license 6.0 three years ago.  

Over $2.5 billion of contract value expires in the quarter. The vast majority of which is related to three-year EA and select agreements.  

Second, we continue to expect EA agreement renewals to be within our historical range of two-thirds to 75%. Third, we expect price discounting to remain within historical ranges.  

And lastly, given the amount of business that's up for renewal, a single day or two of billings can swing the June unearned balance significantly. Keeping these dynamics in mind, we expect unearned revenue at the end of June to be up from our prior guidance of 8.6 billion by a couple hundred million dollars.  

We ended the quarter with over $8 billion in contracted not billed and expect that number to increase in the June quarter as well. Considering forecasted revenue, the change in unearned revenue, and a change in contracted and not billed, we expect to deliver solid double-digit booking growth in Q4.  

Now for the rest of the P&L. All our guidance on cost of revenue and operating expenses include stock-based compensation.  

We continue to expect total stock-based compensation expense for the fiscal 2005 to be approximately $2.4 billion. For the fourth quarter, and as a percentage of revenue, we expect that cost of revenue should be approximately 15%.  

Operating expenses should be approximately 45%, and specifically research and development expense should be approximately 15%, sales and marketing expense should be about 25%, and finally, general and administrative expenses should be approximately 5%.  

This drives an operating income range of 4.1 to $4.2 billion for the fourth quarter, and 15.7 to $15.8 billion for the full fiscal year, including stock-based compensation expense and about $1.3 billion of pretaxed legal charges already taken this fiscal year.  

Investment income should be approximately $1.5 billion for the full fiscal year and around $360 million for the fourth quarter. As a reminder, our investment income forecast does not include any potential investment impairments or gains and losses attributed to derivative instruments used to manage risk.  

We estimate our effective tax rate at 33%.  

For guidance purposes, we are projecting an outstanding share count of 10.8 billion shares for the full-year. Since we're talking about shares outstanding, let me say that why we don't provide the timing of the execution of our previously announced buy back program, we are focused on it and know that you are too.  

We are confident in our ability to execute on the previously announced plan. There may be some quarters where we do significantly more than the streamline average and some where we do significantly less.  

So far this fiscal year, we have purchased 141 million shares for $3.7 billion, including the 95 million shares in the third quarter and have returned over $39 billion to shareholders through dividends and these share repurchases.  

We continue to expect full-year diluted EPS to be $1.05 or $1.06, which includes stock-based compensation and $0.08 of legal charges already taken this fiscal year. And we expect fully diluted EPS to be 27 or $0.28 for the fourth quarter.  

At this point, let's discuss our preliminary view of fiscal '06. Our guidance represents our best current thinking about fiscal '06 and is subject to change as we finish our planning cycle during Q4.  

Consistent with our past practice, we aren't providing specific product level assumptions behind our fiscal '06 guidance, and our guidance includes impacts from both announced and unannounced product launches. We will provide more details as we typically do in the Q4 earnings call.  

Our current FY '06 revenue forecast is 43.3 to $44.1 billion, which represents 9 to 11% revenue growth over fiscal '05. On a dollar basis that translates into 3.5 billion to just under $4.5 billion of incremental revenue growth year-over-year.  

Our expectation for operating income are 18.3 to $18.9 billion, and fully diluted earnings per share of $1.26 to $1.30. These numbers include stock-based compensation expense.  

Now let me outline a few key items necessary to understand our fiscal '06 guidance.  

First, as discussed earlier, we have a significant amount of contract value up for renewal in the fourth quarter of fiscal '05. Although we expect renewal rates to be in line with our historical experience, you should be aware that our ability to renew those agreements will impact fiscal '06 revenue and beyond.  

Second, we expect price discounting to remain within historical ranges. Third, we do not attempt to predict foreign exchange rates in our forecast so actual rate change movements will cause deviations from our forecast.  

Fourth, balancing the effects of execution on our share repurchase commitment and cash generated from operations, investment income should increase over the next year as net cash and short-term investment balances rebuild following our $30 billion special dividend payment.  

Fifth, at this early stage we expect PC hardware growth to be down in fiscal '06 compared to fiscal '05, and we expect server hardware shipment growth rates in fiscal 2006 to be similar to what we saw in fiscal '05. Sixth, we expect stock-based compensation expense to decline in fiscal '06 as legacy options continue to amortize.  

Lastly, there is a lot of excitement among consumers about the next generation Xbox platform, and we've received many questions from investors as well. While we will not be providing any additional details on today's call, we will be unveiling a next generation Xbox platform on a global MTV broadcast premiering on May 12th in North America, followed by additional information at the E3 conference.  

In summary, we are having a healthy fiscal year -to-date. Our outlook is good, and we feel good about the long-term investments we are making in the business.  

We expect to end the year with a strong fourth quarter with 9 to 10% revenue growth and double-digit bookings growth over the prior year's comparable quarter and look we forward to increased revenue growth in 2006.  

We continue to focus our innovation on areas with promising growth prospects. Our product pipeline is strong, and fiscal '06 will have some significant product launches.  

Just this week, at the Windows Hardware Engineering Conference, we announced the general availability of the 64-bit versions of Windows Server 2003 and Windows XP. Additionally, Bill demonstrated how Longhorn will put even more of the power of the 64-bit computing to work for users.  

You can expect to learn more when its first beta comes out this summer before Longhorn is broadly available by holiday 2006.  

Windows Server 2003 R2 is on track and we have entered the final stages of development cycles on SQL Server 2005 and Visual Studio. Consumers eagerly anticipate the next generation of Xbox platform, and Windows XP Media Center Edition has now sold over 2 million units.  

Our strategy of integrated integration is continuing to pay off as evidence from our expectations of increasing revenues and operating income growth in fiscal '06.  

And finally, as we announced on Monday, we are excited to have our new Chief Financial Officer, Chris Liddell join the team in a couple of weeks and look forward to the skill and experience he brings.  

With that, let me turn it back over to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Thanks, Scott. With that, let's now proceed to questions. We'd like to accommodate questions from as many people as possible, so if you could, please avoid multi-part questions and limit yourself to just one question. Operator, would you please repeat your instructions?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. [Operator instructions] One moment please for the first question. Our first question comes from Mary Meeker with Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yeah, thanks, guys. Can you hear me, Curt?  

CURT ANDERSON: Yeah, hi, Mary, how are you doing?  

MARY MEEKER: I'm fine, thanks. First, a question on how you think we should be thinking about Longhorn both from a timing perspective and the potential impact on the financial model? And second question, and it's tough given that you're in between CFOs for the moment, but you did provide guidance for fiscal '06. It looks like, it's hard to tell from the guidance whether you have an expectation that operating margins go up, down, or sideways, but if you have any thoughts on that, we'd certainly appreciate it. Thanks.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Hi, Mary, actually this is Scott. I think on Longhorn, we're launching a beta in the summer of '06 with the, you know, the release, general release in holiday, excuse me, summer '05 with a general release in the holiday '06 time frame. And we, you know, that's kind of the timing that we're looking at in Longhorn.  

As we take a look at '06 and operating margins, you know we will be providing additional guidance in our July call, and at the SAM as we typically do, and we don't normally get into the granularity or details on this call.  

MARY MEEKER: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Drew Brosseau with SG Cowen.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWAN SECURITIES: Hi, thanks. I wonder if you can expand little bit on your expectations around the desktop businesses. Next year you said you thought growth would be a little bit slower in desktop unit growth and I'm wondering if you can give a little color to that? And secondly, what you can do in the meantime before Longhorn to try and drive better growth in those two business lines? Thanks.  

CURT ANDERSON: Drew, hi, it's Curt. Thanks for the question.  

Yeah, we did talk a little bit about just our start overall, early take on demand for next year in terms of hardware, and we're really not prepared to provide much more color than that at this point. This is sort of our preliminary view of '06. We'll get into more details obviously next quarter and then at the financial analyst meeting.  

In the meantime and we can't, again, get into specifics about '06, we're going to continue to innovate on the XP platform. We've launched obviously XP, the SP2 package. We continue to offer a fair amount of incremental value with that, and continue to make headway with service packs and continue to bring more innovation.  

We've also launched a new marketing campaign called "The Start Something" campaign this quarter and next, and you'll see more and more visibility about the Windows platform, so we're trying to incite some enthusiasm there. I would also point out that the Media Center platform continues to have very good traction as does the Tablet PC, and so we're going to continue to look for those platforms to drive incremental value.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Anything in particular in the emerging markets?  

CURT ANDERSON: We continue to see a lot of traction in emerging markets, nothing in particular in terms of a product offering or product SKU at this point.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Charles Di Bona with Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLES DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Hi, Curt. Maybe you could explain a little bit more detail the big disconnect between PC unit sales that people have been reporting and your Client business this quarter. And then also, could you touch maybe a little bit on why MBS, you've been restructured there for some time even pouring money into sales and marketing and yet we seem to be going sideways still there. Can you talk about your plans for that segment?  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay, great. Charlie, I'll take the Client question then I think Scott will handle the MBS question.  

Let me just do a little bit of math for you on Client. First-off, just to orient folks, the OEM component of the Client business really accounts for about 80% of that business and, of course, the 20% remaining is commercial and retail. So if we dissect the quarter we had about 10% PC market growth and about 7% OEM growth. So the largest component of the business was actually more in line with PC growth than revenue would actually suggest.  

Just sort of tearing down a layer of that. If we look at the difference between the OEM revenue growth and the PC market growth, the difference is largely driven by two items. One would be our Promix went from 50 to 49% on a year-over-year basis, and I'll remind you that that's a new factor we're giving this quarter. That's the pure OEM Promix as opposed to the overall blended Promix for the entire Client business.  

So we saw a little bit of reduction in Promix, and that was in large part because the small medium business sector was, the volume in that business was up quite a bit, and those customers tend to buy more home versus pro than the enterprise customers otherwise would.  

And then, we frequently see when the sales channel moves, shifts in favor of the multi-national OEMs versus the system builders, or the white box manufacturers, the multi-nationals tend to pay a little bit lower average royalty per license, and so that also accounts for part of the difference. So we can reconcile from 10% PC market growth to the 7% OEM growth with those factors.  

And then getting down to the 2% revenue growth overall, really the commercial and retail licensing part of the business was down 18% year-over-year, and that was a little bit more than we had anticipated it would be.  

We think there's really a couple of things going on here. One, customers continue to shift to the OEM channel, frankly, to buy their operating system. And as we get into an upgrade cycle, customers evaluate whether or not to buy their operating system either as an inline upgrade or a new PC, and many customers are shifting to buying the new PC as the alternative.  

And then as we get, you know, at this point in our product life cycle, the finished goods component or the package goods component of that business just continues to tail off and that's just normal for this part of the life cycle that we're in.  

We're hopeful that as customers get more and more clarity around Longhorn both in terms of the ship date and the feature set and the value that we are going to provide that customers will get enthusiastic and we'll come back into the volume licensing component of the business.  

Scott, do you want to take MBS?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Hi, Charlie.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Hi.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: On the MBS business, while the results may not have been as strong as people want, I think we've done a lot of work over the last years in getting our, integrating our products and our channels and we have a bit more work to go, but we're really starting to see some payoff on that and momentum with the Convergence Conference which was very well received. If you look at the last 12 months trailing revenue growth we have 6% revenue growth there, we've announced a long-term product road map, and, you know, we have double-digit customer, ERP customer adds. And we had some real good customer wins up against the competition.  

So while it's not as robust as maybe some would like, we think we really, with the hard work and groundwork that we've laid over the last couple of years, I think we're ready to begin to really leverage the Microsoft Business Solution business.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Thank you.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Thanks, Charlie.  

CURT ANDERSON: Next question, please. Operator.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Scott, if you could help us understand how you get to 9% revenue growth in the June quarter versus 5% in the March quarter.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Sure, Rick, we'll be glad to do that. As we took a look at, you know, the overall fourth quarter, we're looking at some good growth from our, across our business sets. So taking a look at, for example, our Client business. We're looking at 8 to 9% growth which is leveraging the PC hardware shipment growth that we expect.  

Server revenue, we're expecting up in the 16 to 17%, and we're really, IWs in the 3 to 4. So if you look across the platform, there are some real good growth there.  

Also, we're looking at about 7% growth in our MBS business, and real good growth in MED as their products continue to go and they launch additional sets there.  

In the Home and Entertainment business, we're, you know, we're, again, looking at leveraging in the demand for our console, but we also have some good third, first-party and third-party games that are out. Ones that launched at the tail end of the third quarter but also a couple that are going out in Q4 that's going to drive some good revenue growth with H&E. So when add all of that up, Rick, we're looking at some good 9 to 10% growth in Q4.  

RICK SHERLUND: I guess I'm just curious how you can get Client at 8 to 9 given what it did this past quarter and also Server, why are we expecting business to accelerate, I guess is my question?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Well, I mean on Server, again, the overall hardware, if you think about the overall hardware shipments don't necessarily correlate to the licenses similar to that you'd see in the PC market which you're well aware of and so we're expecting again, some good leverage there. And then in the client business, I think we're looking to continue to see strong, I guess we're seeing good strong business demand in the Client business, and look to lever that to try to pick up some more than what we did in Q3.  

RICK SHERLUND: And for next year, the more optimistic revenue growth than certainly I was braced to hear from you guys, but yet, we don't really see it on the earnings side. Would that suggest some mixed shift like maybe more Xbox where you get revenues but you don't get the earnings?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Well, Rick, we're not, we typically would not give out detailed guidance. We're still actually working through our planning through Q4 and will certainly give a little more color on that in the call in July and at the financial analyst meeting.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thanks.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Rick. Operator, next question please  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Hi, thank you. I was just wondering if you could talk a little bit about the Server business. I guess to Rick's point it was a little bit lighter this quarter than what you guided to. And if you can give us an idea of what customer buying behavior looks like ahead of the new product releases that you have coming out over the next six months and has this been factored into your June quarter guidance? And I guess what type of customer deferrals are you seeing at this point, if any? Thank you.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Thanks, Heather. Well, you know, we saw in Q3 and we're looking into Q4, we saw a very strong SQL business and Exchange business in Q3, and we're expecting that to continue on in Q4. We also are looking for our Windows Server business to grow in line with the overall hardware market growth, and, you know, again, I think you can take the combination of that is where we're seeing the improvement in Server in Q4.  

HEATHER BELLINI: But can you give us a sense for what you're seeing our customers deferring projects or deferring new buying ahead of some of the new products that you have or are you anticipating that? Because I know you mentioned that as a cautionary statement when you gave guidance back in January.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: We haven't really seen any real trends. The business, it really is, you know, the business needs drive the demand rather than kind of the product sets. So, product release sets. And so I think we're, we haven't seen any trends where people are holding off, and the renewals are in line with what we've been expecting.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Tom Berquist with Smith Barney.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY CITIGROUP: Thank you. Hi, guys. Just a question on the huge renewal that's coming up next quarter, the $2.5 billion that you mentioned. What are you expecting in terms of attach rates for Server products? I know historically that would have been just Client products. What do you think will happen with Server attach rates?  

CURT ANDERSON: Hi, Tom, it's Curt here. Thanks for the question. We're looking for fairly stronger renewal rates there, I mean it was probably trending toward the sort of 66 to 70%, 75% overall. We are, and that's on a contract basis. We are seeing actually a little bit of higher dollar renewal rate and that's a function of an increased in attached, really across the board Server and Tools being a strong participant in that incremental attach. So we do expect to see that improve, and we are expecting to see our overall renewal activity to be in line with what we've seen over the last, you know, nine months or so.  

TOM BERQUIST: Got it. If I can ask too, I'm an MSN customer and I noticed my user interface shifting, recently in the last week or so, it does look a lot cleaner and I wondered if, I heard what you said about MSN, are you losing, do you feel like you're losing opportunities in the ad business relative to Google and Yahoo because it had been a fairly cluttered interface before?  

CURT ANDERSON: What you've seen is probably "Clarity in Advertising" in action, Tom. And so we are indeed sort of trying to take a look at the real estate we have and cleaning it up in the sense of monetizing less of the space and making the existing slots, if you will, more valuable. We think that over time that's going to create a far better user experience and bring more users back to the platform and increase the overall value of the real estate over the long-term.  

We do expect it to have a near-term hit as you saw this quarter as we expected and as we saw in terms of actual results, and we think that will continue for the short-term.  

TOM BERQUIST: Okay. Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: All right, thanks. Next question please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Adam Holt with JP Morgan.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, JP MORGAN: Hi. I actually had a follow-up question on Server and Tools. It did look like on a relative basis that unearned was a little bit stronger for Server and Tools whereas we've seen up-front licenses be a little bit stronger there in the last couple of quarters. Is there a shift that we're starting to see in front of some of the upcoming product releases towards longer term contracts that you think will continue for the next several quarters?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: I think the uptick, Adam on the Server and Tools unearned was really driven off of their services business this quarter. And so, which is good, because it's building well, but we don't see any other trends as it relates to that in the unearned side.  

ADAM HOLT: Just one question on Q4. Your PC targets of 10 to 12% are a little more optimistic than I guess current consensus. Can you talk us through how you get to that assumption, particularly since you saw 10% in Q3?  

CURT ANDERSON: You know, Adam, this is Curt. We are calling for 10 to 12% if you look at the IDC numbers they're kind of riding the line with that. We all have sort of different methodologies and a different approach to forecasting it. We feel pretty comfortable with our number. Just a difference in methodology.  

ADAM HOLT: Great, thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Operator, we've got time for just one last question  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question comes from Brent Thill with Prudential.  

BRENT THILL, ANALYST, PRUDENTIAL EQUITY GROUP: Thanks. The margin profile for the Server business actually improved pretty significantly year-over-year. Can you give us a sense of how much more you think is left in terms of the profitability relative to the decline in Info Worker they were, looks like flat year-over-year?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Yeah, thanks, Brent. This is Scott. So, you know, we continue, like the rest of the Company with Server and Tools, we're continuing to focus revenues, on growing revenues faster than expenses and increasing the margins while we, you know, balance the investment for the long-term there. So we think there is still some room to go, and, you know, additionally, we, in those numbers, you have to kind of keep in mind that equity comp is in there, and as we have talked about before, equity comp will continue to come down a bit as we amortize off the legacy options.  

So it'd be a combination of us working hard to get, to keep the margins, improve the margins, but also we'll get a little bit of help from equity comp.  

BRENT THILL: And SQL Server 2005, you're still slated for second half of the year in terms of a ship date?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: We're slated for, yeah, second half of '05 for ship date, calendar '05.  

BRENT THILL: Great, thanks.  

CURT ANDERSON: Well, thanks, Brent. Thank you everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or someone on the Investor Relations team directly.  

As I mentioned at the top of this call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations Web site through the close of business on April 28, 2006. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing 800-944-3543, or for international calls dial 1-402-998-1738. And the dial-in replay will be available through the close of business May 6, 2005. Thanks again for joining us today  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050512e14s00360
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,990 words
   PD
27 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome and thank you for standing by. At this time, all participants are in a listen-only mode. After the presentation, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, you may disconnect at this time. Now I would like to turn the call over to Curt Anderson, Senior Director Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.  

CURT ANDERSON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF IR, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Dawn. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you all for joining us today. This afternoon, as usual, I'm joined by John Connors, our Chief Financial Officer; Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller; and John Seethoff, our Deputy General Counsel. Today's call will follow our normal format. We'll start out with Scott providing some color around our second quarter results, and then turn it over to John to review our guidance for the third quarter and for the full fiscal year. After that, we'll take time for questions.  

   TD
In an effort to provide you the most comprehensive information possible about the results of this quarter and the financial status of the Company, we decided to align our 10-Q with the issuance of our quarterly earnings release. As a result, investors now have the earnings release, MD&A, the financial statements and the footnotes available at the same time. In the past, the press release contained a detailed financial highlights section. You can now find that information in the MD&A section of the 10-Q. You may also want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck, which provides highlights from the quarter. And as always, you can find the earnings release, the 10-Q and quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at microsoft.com/msft.  

Today's call will be recorded, so please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well as in any future use of the recording. And as always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on January 27th, 2006.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties and unauthorized reproduction or distribution of the report or any portion of it may result in civil or criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed permission of Microsoft.  

We will, as always, be making the statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's call and in today's earnings release and in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2005 Form 10-Qs and 2004 Form 10-K, as well as other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results. Scott.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, VP, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Curt. Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. We're happy to be announcing strong results, and I'd like to start by giving you a brief overview of the quarter highlighting a few significant financial and business momentum points. Then I'll talk briefly about revenue performance in each of the business segments. I'll finish up by giving an overview of the operating income performance for the quarter. All of the growth comparisons I mention relate to the comparable quarter last year unless I specify otherwise.  

We had a record revenue quarter at $10.8 billion growing 7 percent, with EPS of $0.32 per share, both exceeding our October guidance of $10.3 to $10.5 billion for revenue and $0.28 for EPS. It is important to note that we completed our employee stock option transfer program during the second quarter last year, so those results included stock-based compensation expense of $2.2 billion pretax and $1.5 billion after tax, equating to $0.14 cents per share.  

We had strong revenue performance in almost all of our business segments, either in absolute dollars, percentage growth or both. Server and Tools and Home and Entertainment stand out this quarter with revenue growth of 18 percent and 11 percent respectively. Client revenue grew 5 percent, in line with the guidance we gave you last quarter, driving a significant amount of the absolute dollar growth in revenue. Mobile and Embedded Devices grew an impressive 44 percent. All of the other businesses either met or exceeded the high end of our revenue expectations for the quarter.  

We estimate that actual PC unit shipments came in at about 12 percent versus the 7 to 9 percent estimate we gave you in our guidance for the second quarter. This strength in the PC market appears to be driven by strong business and consumer demand in mature and emerging markets. Latin America had the strongest growth on a small base. EMEA and APAC both showed growth in mid-double digits and North America grew in the high single digits. Japan was basically flat year-over-year.  

We estimate that during the quarter total server hardware unit shipments grew about 15 percent, in line with our expectations, with Windows Server hardware shipments growing faster than the overall sector at 19 percent. From a licensing perspective, we saw overall strength in volume licensing, particularly in the mid-market segment. This included growth in our enterprise agreements and open annuity, as well as select and open license only's. EA renewal rates were in line with our historical experience and upgrade advantage conversions came in at the high end of our guidance range, near 30 percent.  

Overall, the mix of product sales was consistent with year-over-year, with roughly 30 percent of our revenue from OEMs, 25 percent from annuity license agreements, another 25 percent from license-only sales, and the balance from our other businesses. Note that this mix does fluctuate somewhat from quarter to quarter.  

Unearned revenue was up $184 million sequentially driven by overall healthy bookings during the quarter. We deferred $3.4 billion of revenue this quarter and recognized $3.2 billion of previously deferred revenue. As you know, when we sign multi-year contracts we often invoice for those contracts on an annual basis. The value of the unbilled portion of the contract is not reflected in our balance sheet until invoices are sent for the subsequent years, resulting in contracted but unbilled revenue. Our contracted but unbuild balance has continued to increase sequentially and is now over $8 billion.  

I would like to point out that we believe looking at unearned revenue, independent of our overall volume of business, doesn't necessarily provide real insight into the health of our business. We encourage investors to look at the fluctuation in unearned revenue in conjunction with movement in our estimated contracted but unbilled revenue balance and our total revenue in order to get an estimate of our total bookings for the quarter. We believe this gives the best picture of the overall health of the business.  

Favorable foreign exchange rates resulted in an additional uplift to revenue for the quarter. Had rates been consistent with prior year, revenue would have been about $250 million lower. This uplift was a bit higher than we had expected as the dollar continued to weaken. We anticipate some continued foreign exchange benefit, primarily in our Information Worker and Server and Tools segments in the third quarter as compared to the third quarter of last year. John will address the relative impact on our guidance for the rest of the year in his comments.  

While revenues increased 7 percent, cost of revenue decreased about $400 million or 18 percent. The decrease was driven by lower stock-based compensation expense, primarily as a result of the expense recorded in last year's second quarter for the employee stock-option transfer program, as well as lower cost in the MSN Internet Access business and a reduction in cost for Xbox. The remainder of operating expenses decreased $2.2 billion.  

The decrease was driven by a significant reduction in stock-based compensation expense, primarily related to the employee stock-option transfer program, partially offset by increased hiring and salary costs, legal fees, and program costs for upcoming product releases. Increases in revenue combined with net decreases in cost of goods sold and the rest of our operating expenses led to an increase in operating income of almost $3.3 billion.  

Investment income and other decreased $417 million to $420 million, including $309 million of losses on derivatives, resulting primarily from equity derivatives used to economically hedge against the decline in equity prices. In addition to the impact of derivative losses, the decline in investment income and other was also impacted by the repositioning of our portfolio into shorter duration instruments and to smaller overall portfolio following the payment of our $3 per share special dividend. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33 percent, as we had expected.  

Now turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Cash and equivalents in short-term investments decreased to 34.5 billion, down from $60.6 billion at June 30, 2004, due primarily to the $32.6 billion special dividend paid on December 2nd. This payment was partially offset by the $7.6 billion of cash that we generated from operating activities during the first 6 months of the year. Our cash flow from operations for the quarter was $3.6 billion driven by net income of $3.5 billion, adjusted by about $550 million in stock-based compensation expense, offset by the cash flow impact of the increase in accounts receivable of approximately $1.4 billion. The impact of other non-cash expenses, plus fluctuations in the rest of our working capital accounts added a remaining $1 billion.  

Accounts receivable have increased by $756 million since June 30, primarily as a result of the increasing revenue mentioned earlier. DSO was at 55 days compared to 53 days in the prior year. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number so it is consistent with what is included in receivables.  

Our weighted average diluted shares outstanding were just under 11 billion. We repurchased 23.6 million shares in the quarter for $655 million. Although we do not share specifics regarding the timing or pricing of our buyback strategy, I can say that we have little concern about our ability to complete the program announced in July.  

Now I'd like to discuss revenue by business segment. Client revenue grew 5 percent to $3.2 billion driven by strong pre-sea [ph] shipments during the quarter. Windows OEM licenses grew 12 percent, in line with PC market growth which drove a 10 percent growth in OEM revenue. This was partially offset by a decrease in revenue from commercial and retail licensing of Windows operating systems. This decrease is primarily attributed to a decline in upgrade advantage revenue and to customers' continued preference for upgrading their operating systems through the OEM channel when they replace their PCs.  

Premium mix was relatively consistent with the same quarter last year, moving down 1 percentage point to 54 percent. Revenue from Server and Tools grew 18 percent to $2.5 billion, driven by broad platform strength, including 19 percent growth in Windows Server hardware shipments, 17 percent growth in new Windows Server license units, as well as growth in SQL Server, Exchange Server, and Core CAL revenue. This marks the 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit growth for this business.  

We're particular pleased with the continued growth of SQL, which grew revenue over 25% during the quarter. For this business the growth was seen most notably in select and open annuity and license-only agreements. Business unit also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates which provided $78 million of the revenue growth.  

Information Worker revenue declined 85 million or 3 percent this quarter, given a tough comparables to the prior year because of extremely successful -- of the extremely successful launch of Office 2003 and $181 million of upgrade advantage revenue included in the second quarter of the prior fiscal year. Offsetting these factors was favorable foreign exchange rates, which added $99 million in revenue for the quarter. Despite the year-over-year decreases, Office continued to experience healthy sales in both volume licensing, as well as pre-installed versions of Office sold on PCs. Revenue from OEM licensing of Information Worker products grew 5 percent this quarter.  

During the quarter, we released the Microsoft Office Live Communication Server 2005 and announced the new edition of Office targeted at small business management, which includes Microsoft Office small business accounting, a new financial management solution. Revenue from Microsoft Business Solutions was flat compared to the prior year at $211 million. Growth in new license revenue for this business was offset by a reduction in services revenue and revenue from the on-line business.  

MSN reported an increase in revenue of $42 million or 8 percent. MSN's advertising revenue increased 17 percent for the quarter from strength in display advertising and solid international growth. During the first half of the fiscal year, MSN implemented a program called Clarity in Advertising aimed at improving the user experience on MSN Search. This program removed paid inclusion and reduced the number of advertisements that are returned with search results leading to lower revenue growth in the first half of this fiscal year. We believe that improving the user experience by reducing the number of advertisements is the right long-term strategy in order to sustain and grow our user base. John will provide further color on our expectations for MSN for the rest of the fiscal year.  

As expected, revenue from Internet Access decreased 14 percent as narrow-band subscribers continued to migrate to broadband or other competitively priced ISPs. Also during the quarter, MSN released the beta version of our new algorithmic search engine and our desk to search product called, MST Tool Bar Suite. Since the launch of the Tool Bar Suite in December, we've received a lot of positive feedback from our consumers and we will be implementing a number of recommended changes before the product goes final this year.  

Revenue in Mobile and Embedded Devices was stronger than we expected, growing 44 percent to $91 million. The strong results for the quarter were driven by our Windows Mobile product line. During the quarter Windows Mobile licenses for connected devices, such as phone-enabled PDAs and smart phones grew in excess of 200 percent from our prior year. As part of this growth, we sold more Windows Mobile Smart Phone licenses during Q2 than we did for all of last year.  

Windows embedded base devices, such as the Gizmondo and Windows mobile base devices such as the audiovox SMT 5600 and HP iPAQ 4700 have received a number of industry awards for innovation and best in class. Mobile Embedded Devices also continues to gain traction with device manufacturers and mobile operators. At the end of quarter there were over 35 device manufacturing partners and over 60 mobile operators in 28 countries shipping mobile -- Windows mobile-based devices.  

Performance for Home and Entertainment during the quarter was very strong as total revenue was a record $1.4 billion driven primarily by better than expected sales of Xbox games. On November 9th we launched Halo 2, which generated approximately 300 million in revenue achieving worldwide sell through of over 6.3 million copies this quarter. Our game portfolio continues to grow with over 600 games available for the Xbox platform and over 200 which are live-enabled. According to NPD data, Xbox software sales in the United States grew 46 percent year-over-year for the quarter, and our live to date attach rate of 7.7 games per console in the United States continues to be the highest ever of any console at this point in its lifecycle.  

Console sales for the quarter were strong driven by the impact of Halo 2 and competitor supply constraints. Based on NPD data, Xbox won the critical holiday sales season in the United States and year-over-year Xbox console market segment share is now increased in the U.S. for 14 consecutive months. Through the December quarter, we sold 19.9 million consoles worldwide since launch. 13.2 million of those in North America, 5 million in Europe, and 1.7 million consoles in Japan and the Asia Pacific region. Xbox Live also continues to do well with over 1.4 million members worldwide driven by the impact of Halo 2 and a growing number of live-enabled titles offered by third-party partners.  

Now I want to move to operating income. Operating income improved by about $3.3 billion, driven primarily by the revenue performances I just described combined with the reduction of $2.2 billion of stock-based compensation expenses associated with the employees stock-option transfer program in the second quarter of last year. In terms of absolute dollar improvement, Server and Tools, Home and Entertainment, and Client drove over $2 billion of the operating income and improvement.  

Operating income for Server and Tools had strong growth increasing $1.1 billion. In addition to the outstanding revenue performance, operating income benefited from a substantial decrease in stock-based compensation expense partially offset by an increase in sales and marketing costs from increased hiring and increases in salaries and benefits.  

Home and Entertainment achieved profitability for the quarter demonstrating strong focus in execution in this business. Operating income for the division was $84 million, a $481 million improvement over the prior year driven by record sales of Xbox games and lower stock-based compensation expense. Because we launched Halo 2 during the second quarter, which is typically our strongest quarter for this business, we don't expect profitability to continue into the second half of the year. John will discuss this further when he takes you through our financial guidance for the rest of the year.  

Operating income for Client increased 21 percent or $435 million, primarily as a result of the 5 percent growth in revenue combined with reduction of stock-based compensation expense. Partially offsetting these improvements were increased operating expenses associated with the continued development of Longhorn.  

In closing, this has been another great quarter for Microsoft. Our revenue growth exceeded our expectations and our cost structure was in line furthering our goal of growing revenues faster than expenses. We had solid overall revenue growth with growth in 5 of our 7 businesses, and all of our business showed profitability improvements during the quarter.  

Now let me turn it over to John who will give us some additional color on our performance this quarter, give you some thoughts about the macroenvironment, and give you guidance on results we're expecting in Q3 and for the full fiscal year.  

JOHN CONNORS, CFO, SVP, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Scott and Curt and good afternoon, everyone. Let me start by making a few comments about the quarter. This was yet another excellent quarter with very strong fundamentals. Microsoft continued to grow revenue faster in the enterprise segment than any of its major competitors. Strong enterprise demand for our server products resulted in 18 percent Server and Tools growth with strength across the product line. Windows Server license units grew 17 percent in the second quarter year-over-year. SQL revenues grew over 25%, and Exchange 2003 enjoyed the fastest adoption of any new version of the Company's history. Our server business has a track record like the Patriots in the NFL playoffs.  

Underlying PC demand was strong in both business and consumer segments with particular strength in businesses. In fact, PC demand was better than we had expected by a number of points. Home and Entertainment has really turned the corner in all respects. Halo 2 and Xbox Live have been remarkable. Exceeding our expectations. More Xbox consoles were sold during the critical holiday season in the United States than any of our competitors' consoles. Demand was so great that we nearly made our full fiscal year console target 6 months ahead of schedule. We have seen share gains in the U.S. for 14 straight months.  

Mobile and Embedded outperformed our expectations. In fact, more Windows Mobile Smart Phone licenses were sold during the second quarter of this year than the entire prior year. Information Worker met our expectations during a quarter with tough comparables, since the second quarter of last year benefited from both the launch of Office 2003 and the revenue benefit from upgrade advantage.  

We continue to see very strong growth in emerging markets with double-digit growth in China, Russia, and India. So we feel very good about our businesses across the board and our long-term approach to growing new businesses is very clearly paying off. Our 3 emerging businesses, Home and Entertainment, Mobile and Embedded, and MBS, combine delivered nearly 700 million in improved operating results versus the prior-year quarter.  

Home and Entertainment delivered its first profitable quarter ever, even with the inclusion of stock-based compensation. The division won't remain profitable the remainder of this year, but we still have confidence we are on track to reach our previously stated goal of sustained profitability sometime in fiscal year '07. In addition to strong overall operating results and prodigious cash flow generation, we returned approximately 33 billion to shareholders in December through the special dividend. In all respects, a record and unique quarter.  

Now let me turn to the details of our forecast for the March quarter and full fiscal-year 2005. Beginning with our assumptions for key macro drivers. IT and corporate spending was healthy during this quarter and we expect that to continue for the rest of the fiscal year. Corporate profits are strong and worldwide GDP growth is good. For full year fiscal-year '05 we are raising our PC shipment guidance by a point to 9 to 11 percent reflecting the upside we saw in the first half. For the third quarter, we expect roughly 9 percent growth. The forecast continues to call for business PC unit growth to exceed consumer.  

The world is buying a heck of a lot of servers. For full year fiscal-year '05, our forecasted server shipment growth remains at 13 to 15 percent. As always, this represents a roll-up of Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware. We expect the Windows platform to grow faster than the overall server segment just as it has for the past few years. For the third quarter, we forecast about 15 percent growth in overall server shipments.  

Now to revenue, and unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year. Revenue for fiscal year 2005 should be in the range of 39.8 to 40 billion, up 8 to 9 percent. This full-year range is over 800 million higher than what we communicated to you in October based on the upside we saw in Q2 plus another roughly 350 million in the forecast for the second half. We are seeing strong momentum in the Server and Tools and the Home and Entertainment businesses, and the impact of foreign exchange rates as a result of the continued weakness in the U.S. dollar. Revenue for the third quarter should be in the range of 9.7 to 9.8 billion.  

Starting with Client, full fiscal-year revenue should grow about 6 percent. We expect third quarter Client revenue to grow 4 to 5 percent. As we noted last quarter, this growth rate for both the full year and the third quarter is lower than PC unit growth expectations, primarily due to lower growth rates in the non-OEM channels, as well as stronger relative PC unit shipments in emerging markets with a preponderance of nonpaying customers.  

Server and Tools full fiscal-year revenue should increase between 16 and 17 percent. We expect third quarter revenue to increase 13 to 14 percent as we see continued momentum in our core platform products. Although we had expected SQL revenue to slow and Tools revenue to -- growth to decline ahead of those products' new releases planned for this summer, we have yet to see this materialize. Although the full-year growth is a bit lower than FY '04, it is extraordinary on a basis relative to competition.  

Information Worker full fiscal-year revenue should be up 3 to 4 percent, higher than our previous guidance. Third quarter revenue should be up 2 to 3 percent. For the full year, the growth is slower than FY '04 as we will not have the UA revenue or the benefit of the prior year's Office 2003 launch.  

Microsoft Business Solutions full fiscal-year revenue should increase to be just under $830 million. Third quarter revenue is expected to be just about 200 million.  

MSN has been performing well in advertising, but those results have been masked due to the decline in access revenue. The business is in a fiercely competitive space. Microsoft will have to do what it has always done. Innovate relentlessly and make important investments like our clarity in advertising program to improve the user experience and grow the customer base and thus maximize the business model for the long term. This will reduce short-term monetization due to having fewer ads. Therefore, full fiscal-year revenue is expected to increase 1 to 4 percent, down from our prior guidance, and we expect third quarter revenue to decrease 2 to 7 percent.  

Mobile and Embedded devices full fiscal-year revenue should be over 300 million representing over 30 percent growth. Third quarter revenue should be just over 80 million. Market momentum remains very strong. We expect that to continue in the second half of the year as our partners deliver a wide variety of innovative and differentiated devices based on the Windows Mobile platform.  

Home and Entertainment revenue for the full fiscal year should be up 10 to 11 percent, up from our prior guidance based on the success of the first half and expectations of continued momentum. We expect third quarter revenue to be up 14 to 18 percent. We are increasing our guidance for life-to-date Xbox worldwide console installed base from just under 20 million to 21 to 22 million units by fiscal year end. We are also taking up our expectations for Xbox Live membership at the end of this fiscal year to 1.6 to 1.8 million members, up from our prior guidance of over 1.5 million members.  

Let me turn to the balances of unearned revenues and contracted not billed. For the March quarter, we expect the unearned balance to be down on a sequential basis and up for the quarter ended June, following normal seasonality and consistent with directional guidance we provided on our October earnings call. I will also reiterate that it is difficult to predict precisely when a particular renewal will occur. And, therefore, difficult to predict unearned revenue at a static balance sheet point in the future.  

We continue to expect EA renewals to be within our historical ranges for the year, 65 to 75 percent, and expect to end the fiscal year with unearned at about 8.6 billion, consistent with our October guidance. We ended this quarter with over 8 billion in the contracted not billed balance and expect that number to increase over the course of the fiscal year. When you combine our overall 8 to 9 percent expected revenue growth, with the net increase in unearned revenue and contracted not billed, the year-over-year booking performance for the Company is strong. We feel good about how we will end the year.  

Now for the rest of the P&L. All our guidance on cost of revenue and operating expenses includes stock-based compensation. Total stock-based compensation expense for fiscal 2005 should be approximately 2.4 billion. All costs are discussed as a percent of net revenue. Cost of revenue should be a little under 16 percent for the full year and around 15 percent for the third quarter. Research and development expense for the full year and third quarter should be approximately 15 percent.  

Sales and marketing expense for the full year should be about 21 percent and 22 or 23 percent in the third quarter. And finally, general and administrative expense should be about 6 percent for the year and between 4 and 5 percent in the third quarter. So in total, operating expenses should be about 42 percent of net revenue for the full year, and 42 to 43 percent in the third quarter. This drives an operating income range of 16.5 to 16.7 billion for the full fiscal year and 4.1 to 4.2 billion for the third quarter.  

Investment income should be approximately 1.3 billion for the full fiscal year and around 300 million for the third quarter. As a reminder, our investment income forecast does not include any potential investment impairments or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments used to manage risk.  

We estimate our effective tax rate at 33 percent. For guidance purposes, we are projecting an outstanding share count of 10.9 billion shares for the third quarter and for the full year. We've taken full-year diluted EPS guidance up a $0.05 to a new range of $1.09 to $1.11 which includes $0.15 in stock-based compensation, as well as the charge we took for the Novell settlement subsequent to last October's earnings call. We expect fully diluted EPS to be $0.27 to $0.28 for the third quarter.  

In looking at the products to come, we have a broad pipeline. This summer we plan to ship the next versions of Visual Studio and SQL, and SQL will include often requested and eagerly anticipated enhanced business intelligence capabilities. Windows X 64 is poised to capture the benefits in computing power, once reserved for very expensive hardware. We will launch a new edition of Office targeted at small business management, which includes Microsoft Office, small business accounting.  

Microsoft Business Solutions is refreshing its product line this calendar year as well. We also expect MSN Search to launch in the first half of this calendar year. We are working hard on the next generation of Xbox. Customers and investors will be well served by this lineup.  

So in summary, it was another record quarter for Microsoft. In general, the economic environment is healthy, which we reflected in our guidance for Microsoft's performance for the rest of the year. Furthermore, we are now expecting a bit more foreign exchange benefit in the second half of our fiscal year given current rate levels. You'll recall we had significant foreign exchange benefit in the prior year second half as well.  

Our bookings are strong, and will accelerate in the second half of this fiscal year. We did increase our expense forecast in the second half of the year reflecting the impact that foreign exchange rates are having on our expenses, a small shift of spending from the first half to the second half, mainly due to timing of hiring and some incremental variable marketing investments we are making both in global advertising and field efforts.  

It is too early for me to provide you any specifics on '06. We'll be providing more color on that in next quarter's earnings call as we traditionally do, and as we get closer to finishing up the planning cycle. I do have, however, a couple of initial thoughts. Overall PC and server demand by industry analysts' views is solid but slightly lower than this year, and we will have some tough comps in a few areas. We do see an improving product cycle which will drive growth. Obviously we, along with everyone else in the industry, were a bit surprised about how weak the dollar has been this year, so that could make for interesting comparables next year depending on where the dollar goes.  

Finally, while he we haven't set our FY '06 investment plan, we do continue to keep the focus on efficacy and have the ability to grow revenue faster than expenses. We also expect to continue to improve the profile of our emerging businesses. We've shown very clearly that's the track we're on.  

On a personal note, I have been blessed to have joined this great Company over 16 years ago. It is one of the greatest organizations of any type in the world. Microsoft technology has contributed in immeasurable ways to worldwide productivity improvements and to wealth generation.  

We have always appreciated your interest in the Company, and our interactions over the years. The next CFO will do a great job, because the Company is in an enviable position in multiple businesses, as the world's best technology talent and the finance team in particular is deep and talented. It has been a lot of fun, and a deep honor to have been able to contribute to this great Company. I will, however, say I'll enjoy following my friends and colleagues' continued success and will particularly enjoy, as I always have, seeing the skeptics proved wrong about Microsoft's ability to sustain its leadership role.  

With that, let me turn it back to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, John. Operator, we'll now proceed to questions. We will -- we do want to accommodate questions from as many of the analysts as possible, so please avoid multi-part questions and do limit yourself to just one question if you would. Operator, could you please repeat the instructions and start the Q&A.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. (Operator Instructions). And our first question comes from Mary Meeker. Please state your company name.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Morgan Stanley. Thank you. You talked about a ramp-up in marketing and field expenses, marketing expenses in the next quarter. Excuse me. Let me start again, John. You talked about an increase in marketing spending in the second half of the year. Could you give us a sense of where that might be going? Is it related to the new product launches? Is it related to a new marketing strategy in general? And you also talked about improving outlook for PC unit shipments. Could you also talk about pricing, and most importantly, congrats on your retirement and thanks for all the great stuff you've done over the years.  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Mary. In terms of marketing, I think there's a couple of factors. One is some of our go-to-market marketing shifted from half one to half two. Secondly, we traditionally have a higher marketing activity, particularly in Q4 than any other, and so foreign exchange is going to hurt that a little bit outside of the United States. And then finally, we have significant global advertising planned in the last 4 months of the year.  

MARY MEEKER: And, John, is that just Microsoft branding advertising, or is it product-specific?  

JOHN CONNORS: Principally Microsoft brand.  

MARY MEEKER: Okay.  

JOHN CONNORS: And then you will see some specific product stuff as well, particularly on the Windows side. Secondly, PC units, the market is just very good. Particularly when you look at the size of the market. Going into last quarter, we thought this quarter would be 7 to 9 percent. It looks more like it was 12 percent. The business market was about 13 and consumer was 11. We expect the business market to continue to be double digits the second half of the year, and I think demand is just quite good in the business segment. Consumer is pretty healthy, and a couple of emerging markets are quite good, particularly Latin America, and then China as well. We won't see as much benefit in China, obviously, but we do see that in Latin America.  

On pricing, no surprises on the pricing front. Things are as they have been. The largest volume deals get the same amount of discounting that we've traditionally had. And pricing has held up nicely. We do have a significant volume of annuity contracts up for renewal in the second half, and I think the sales force, they're doing their mid-year reviews right now, they're very optimistic, having finished the first half strong, but they've got a lot of work to do, but pricing is just about where we've seen it over the course of the last 24 to 36 months.  

MARY MEEKER: Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Heather Bellini from UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Thank you. Actually had 2 quick questions. The first one was, if I look at the amount of stock that you've been buying back over past couple of quarters, it looks like you're back-end loading the $30 billion share buyback, so I was just wondering if you could give us an idea how you would expect or how we should model Microsoft executing this repurchase and over what time period? And then a question on your UA renewal rates in the quarter. How did they do versus your expectations?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes. Thanks, Heather. Regarding the stock buyback, you're correct, if you took the 30 billion and divided it over 12 quarters, we're behind after 6 months. Basically the key thing is to look at what we do annually. Some quarters we'll do more than others. It won't be ratable. And basically, we'll have to do more going forward than we've done the last 2 quarters to meet that number. So we'll really ask you to look at it on an annual basis and we won't disappoint.  

In terms of UA renewal, we had said that we thought the UA renewal rate would be 10 to 30 percent through the December quarter, we're at the high end of that renewal rate. The team is hard at work on ensuring that the SA program that we have in place is clearly understood, has the benefits and that the -- both the product road map, and in particular, the product support and services side of that is well executed. I think we're improving the execution and the renewals are right about where we thought and, in fact, at the high end.  

HEATHER BELLINI: So from a customer -- your concern last quarter about customers deferring, how do you feel versus what you stated on the last conference call?  

JOHN CONNORS: I think the sales force is optimistic the way sales people always are after they have a strong quarter, and I think they're also cognizant of the fact that we have a very big second half. So here in Redmond on the fifth floor of building 34 we kind of try to balance that, but I think they're confident that they'll deliver what they've said and they clearly understand they've got a lot of orders to get done the next 6 months.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Thank you very much and good luck. Good luck.  

OPERATOR: Adam Holt from J.P. Morgan. You may ask your question.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Good afternoon. 2 questions on the SQL Server business. First, given that you do have an upcoming release, how do you explain or what is your sense for why that business has been so strong recently? And secondly, what, if any, impact are you all expecting to see from the recently closed Oracle PeopleSoft acquisition on that business?  

JOHN CONNORS: First on the Oracle PeopleSoft, it's probably too early to comment. Obviously, they'll have a lot of work to do on the integration, but it's also obvious that Oracle runs a good company, and they'll move fast. We'll be very aggressive, working with customers in that space and very aggressive in terms of selling the value proposition of our platform from a database perspective. So right now there would be nothing we'd forecast as a result of that merger.  

In terms of the success we're having, I think there's a number of factors. First of all, our execution in the mid-market is just really very good right now. We've reorganized the mid-market and small business group, I guess it would be about 18 months ago under Orlando Ayala and that group's executing well and our results are very strong there. Secondly I think the enterprise edition of our SQL product is doing quite well. And then finally, we have a very compelling product story, not only from a database perspective, but the database combined with our Visual Studio and our DotNet framework and that combination of more adoption of Visual Studio, more adoption of DotNet, a great current product and a good forthcoming product means we're doing pretty well against the competition. We are surprised that things have held up so well ahead of that new release, but the group is confident about what they'll do, and they haven't disappointed now for years, so we're feeling pretty good.  

ADAM HOLT: And the final beta for Yukon is on track for March?  

JOHN CONNORS: Summer. Summer.  

ADAM HOLT: Thank you.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Charlie Di Bona from Sanford Bernstein. You may ask your question.  

CHARLIE DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I've got just 2 quick questions to follow up on the server performance. This next quarter's guidance, you're guiding to 15 percent total server units, yet sort of in a switch from the historical pattern your revenue guidance is below that for the quarter. Can you outline some of the thinking there? And then on the Xbox Live front, you're guiding to sort of fairly substantial increase again through the rest of the year in your subscriber base. Do you have any handle on attrition rates or do you expect that to change given sort of the recent surge in the enrollments?  

JOHN CONNORS: Regarding the second question, I don't know what -- I don't know what that is. But we'll follow up and let you guys know. I do think the satisfaction rates are very high, and the sign-up rates have been quite good, and the fact that we're beating what we expect, I think, I would be surprised if the attrition numbers are high, but I don't know. We'll follow up on that.  

In terms of server performance, a couple of factors probably, Charlie. First of all, we will see some moderation in the SQL numbers, we think, in the second half and the Tool numbers. Our services numbers will be down a little bit, services was up very strong in the quarter, about 17 percent. And then finally, the comps are a little bit tougher with that third quarter of last year server business from a foreign exchange perspective and UA. The UA and FX was over 200 million in the Q3. Hopefully we'll see the group outperform, but those would be the 3 factors.  

CHARLIE DI BONA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund from Goldman Sachs. You may ask your question.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, John. Can you just clarify, did I hear you say Xbox would ship when you were talking about products that were due out in the summer? And second, if you could drill down a little bit in the off-balance sheet deferred, did that grow about $1 billion sequentially, and if you can sort of work through the mechanics of why the deferreds on the balance sheet were up 184 million, but the off-balance sheet was up so much more.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes. In terms of the next Xbox, we haven't announced a release. I think the next period I think when Robby and the team will talk about that is at E3 in Los Angeles in May. They're hard at work on it, but it isn't -- doesn't have a summer announce. In terms of the contracted, but unbilled, it was up, you know, 1 billion sequentially, and there's a couple of factors. The first is the overwhelming majority of what goes into that contracted but unbilled are multi-year agreements and so when we put those contracts in the contracted but unbilled, it includes multiple years whereas the unearned balance of those contracts will reflect only the remainder of the current year for the most part or 12 months.  

Secondly, the unearned balance has also been impacted year-over-year and sequentially by the product rate deferral change we had year-over-year and then UA, so basically the contracted but unbilled will follow a sequential pattern generally similar to unearned, but in those quarters where we have significant enterprise agreement volume, it can grow substantially more. So we would expect that unearned -- or contracted but unbilled to grow the remainder of this year, and it's grown nicely since the start of the year.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Tom Berquist from Smith Barney. You may ask your question.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: John, when do you think the organization will start talking about the Longhorn shipment time frames and deliverables?  

JOHN CONNORS: I think you'll probably start hearing a lot more, Tom, on the Longhorn front as we get the next beta done in the first half of this calendar year. I can't recall when the next professional developer conference would be scheduled, but there will be the beta and then there likely will be the conferences in the fall. So you should hear a lot more about that as we get into the early part of this year.  

TOM BERQUIST: Does that imply that you guys will probably make some special tracks on this product at the analyst day in the summer, too?  

JOHN CONNORS: I'll make a point, looking at Curt right now and Colleen, that we be sure there's a way for you guys to get informed about where we're at on Longhorn when you guys come out.  

TOM BERQUIST: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Drew Brosseau from SG Cowen. You may ask your question.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: John, appreciate the reference to the Patriots and good luck with the new career. Wondering about how the Yukon Visual Studio business will roll out. You talked about how it held up better going into the rollout, but how is that likely to play out from a revenue standpoint once it hits? What do you think the adoption will be like?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks very much, Drew. I think the impact, obviously, would be more pronounced for Yukon than Visual Studio because the Visual Studio has a larger percentage of its customer base on the subscription programs that we offer for developers. So you'd see some modest improvement post-Visual Studio launch. Yukon I think it's probably going to obviously help the product pipeline in fiscal-year '06, not only with respect to database, but also with respect to Windows Server.  

In terms of the growth rates for '06, it's really going to depend on how we finish '05, and '05 is much better than we thought for SQL Server, and so the base is going to be bigger. The absolute growth for SQL and the channels is going to be good, but I think the growth rates will just to have see how we finish this year. I don't think anybody that has followed Microsoft's progress in picking up share, picking up influence in database will be disappoint with Yukon's results.  

And then I should clarify the previous question on the SQL beta, the beta -- the next beta will be in calendar Q1, and then the launch of the product will be in the summer.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator, we've got time for just 1 more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. The next question comes from Laura Lederman of William Blair.  

LAURA LEDERMAN, ANALYST, WILLIAM BLAIR: Wow, underneath the bell. Can you talk a little bit about the Business Solutions group and how you plan to accelerate that and why you think the business has not been growing much?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, I think if we look at the full year-over-year growth that we expect to see in Business Solutions and getting to right about 830 million of revenue, the year-over-year will be -- we'll beat our expectations. I think you'll see in '06 and beyond real decent growth rates relative to the business application market. That is, besides SAP and maybe Intuit, Microsoft will be at the top of business application growth. Quite honestly, I think over the last 18 months or so there have been a couple of things that have impacted our growth versus expectations. One is, the team did a lot of work in terms of the product road map, and which of the products we were going to invest in, and which of the products were probably going to see more of a maintenance model. That's all done.  

Secondly, we had significant integration to do, both of Great Plains and then Navision, and quite honestly, we didn't do as good a job in hindsight as we could have in the channel side, in the operations side, in the marketing side, and in the R&D side, but I think the majority of that is behind us.  

And then thirdly, I think we have a good opportunity that you're just now starting to see of the opportunity to have joint offerings between our small business products and our larger franchise products, such as the offering from the Microsoft Office team with the small business edition. So I think we're well positioned for better execution. I think the growth will have relative to the competitors will be quite good, and I think our product lineup is rationalized better than it was 18, 24 months ago. That being said, the growth isn't as high as what was expected or some comments that were made outside of official finance forecasts, and I think expectations are appropriately set now.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: When do you expect the next generation of the products to roll out in terms of merging the sets on the new platform?  

JOHN CONNORS: The product road map I think, Laura, that's probably most important is that that we're now refreshing, the entire lineup of ERP products will have a refresh this year, and the team will share more of its product road map strategy next summer at the analyst meeting.  

LAURA LEDERMAN: Thank you so much and congratulations on your retirement.  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Laura.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Thanks, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you've got any further questions, feel free to contact me or anyone on the Investor Relations team directly. As I mentioned at the top of this call, the call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business January 27th, 2006. And in addition, you can dial-in to hear the replay by dialing 1-800-224-1270 or for international calls use the number 402-220-3689. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business February 25th, 2005. Thank you for joining us today. Take care.  

OPERATOR: That does conclude today's conference call. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050210e11r002mj
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
10,363 words
   PD
21 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Thank you for standing by and welcome to the Microsoft 1st quarter of fiscal year 2005 earnings conference. Your lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the question and answer session of this conference. This call is being recorded. If you have any objection, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Kurt Anderson, General Manager, Investor Relations. You may begin, sir.  

   TD
KURT ANDERSON: Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everyone. And thank you all for joining us. This afternoon I'm joined by John Connors, our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Di Valerio, Vice President Corporate Controller, and John Seetof, General Deputy Counsel. Today's call will follow our normal format. We'll start out with Scott providing some color around our first quarter results and then turn it over to John for review of our guidance, and our -- for the 2nd quarter and for the full fiscal year '05. After that we'll take your questions. Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. Additionally you may want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck which provides highlights from the the quarter. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial slide deck on the Investor Relations website of Microsoft.com/msft. I would also encourage to you review those documents for more specific information about the quarter's results. Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission, as well any future use of the recording. As always shareholders and analysts can listen live to the live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on October 21st, 2005. This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties.  

Any recording or other use of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed written permission of Microsoft. I'd like to point out that we'll be making statements in the call today that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and are subject to risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this call and in the management discussion analysis section of our 2004 Form 10-K and any other reports and filings with the SEC. Further we do not undertake any duty to update any of the forward-looking statements that may be made. With that, let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results. Scott?  

SCOTT DIVALERIO: Thanks, Kurt and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us, today. First I would like to say how pleased we are with the results of this quarter and the strength of these results indicated by our business. On both an absolute and relative basis, we have been able to deliver world-class results. We think this is a testament to our people, our products and our business model. I would like to start by giving you a brief overview of the quarter highlighting a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the 1st quarter of last year, unless otherwise specified. Revenue grew 12% to 9.2 billion and EPS grew 13% to 27 cents per share exceeding our July guidance of 8.9 billion to $9 billion, for revenue, and 25 cents for EPS. Actual stock-based compensation was in line with our guidance. We had strong revenue performances in all of our businesses. Excuse me. Either in absolute dollars, percentage growth or both. We were pleased with client, server and tools, information worker and our home entertainment business segments. Sales to our OEM channel were stronger than we anticipated due to higher than expected growth of PC shipments and we saw strength in our system builder channel. Compared to the 1st quarter of last year, we saw improvements in our enterprise and volume licensing programs. In particular, select and open annuity, license only, as well as software assurance. We were pleased to see additional growth across our server product line, and continued demand for Office 2003. Additionally, sales for Xbox consoles and games were very strong during the quarter. Last quarter, we said we expected total PC unit shipments to grow by 6% to 8% during the quarter.  

We now estimate that PC shipments exceeded the high end of that range by as much as 2 percentage points. This strength in the PC market appears to be driven by strong business demand in both mature and emerging markets. Consumer shipments were somewhat lower but that was expected given the tough comparables to the very high consumer shipment growth in the 1st quarter of last year. We estimate that the quarter total server hardware unit shipments grew about 16%, in line with our expectations. With Windows server shipments growing faster than the overall market at 18%. Favorable foreign exchange rates resulted in additional uplift to revenue for the quarter. Had rates been constant with the prior year, revenue with have been $221 million lower in the quarter. It is important to note that actual foreign currency exchange rates do not differ significantly from the rates that we used to set our guidance for the quarter. We anticipate some continued foreign exchange benefit in our information worker and server and tools segment in the 2nd quarter but do not expect any significant positive impact from foreign exchange rates in the 2nd half of the year. While revenues increased 12%, cost of revenue remained flat at approximately $1.5 billion. The main driver of our improved cost of revenue was the reduction of costs associated with MSN Internet access and lower stock-based compensation, partially offset by costs associated with product support and consulting services. The balance of operating expenses increased $82 million, due primarily to increased R&D costs for upcoming products including long horn, SQL server 2005 and Visual Studio 2005, increased marketing programs and increased head count offset partially by lower stock-based compensation expenses this quarter. Operating income increased 29% to $4.1 billion, due to the 12% increase in revenue in the quarter, combined with total expense growth of only 1.4%.  

We feel good about growing revenue faster than our expense base and believe that our cost efficacy measures will help us to continue this trend. Investment income and other decreased $474 million to $279 million, including $195 million of losses on derivatives resulting primarily from the effect of interest rate and foreign currency movements and lower realized gains from fewer investment sales. The components of investment income and other included dividend and interest income of $411 million, net realized gains on investment of $53 million, net gains on equity investees of $10 million and net losses on derivatives of $195 million. The decline in investment income and other was also impacted by the recent repositioning of our portfolio into shorter duration instruments, in order to establish liquidity in preparation for our payment of our $3 per share special dividend. The dividend will be paid out on December 2nd, if shareholders approve certain stock plan amendments at our upcoming shareholders meeting. Net income for the quarter was $2.9 billion, with diluted earnings per share of 27 cents. Recognition of revenue related to multi year licensing agreements accounted for approximately 23% of total revenue during the quarter. This compares to 27% in the prior year, and 26% in the previous quarter. As you know, the 4th quarter of the year is typically our strongest annuity quarter. Also, in Q1 of last year, we had $379 million of upgraded advantage revenue compared to only $37 million this quarter. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 33%, as we had expected. Now, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow. Cash and equivalent in short term investments increased to approximately $64 billion, up from $61 billion at June 30, 2004. Due primarily to cash generated from operating activities, offset by dividend and buyback payments during the quarter. Our cash flow from operations increased 17% to $4 billion, primarily as a result of a $287 million improvement in net income and a $306 million decrease in cash impact of deferred revenue. As you know, cash flow from operations is also impacted quarter to quarter, from changes in our working capital accounts, and the impact changes in other non-cash items have on net income. Accounts receivable decreased $784 million sequentially, consistent with seasonal trends. DSO was at 53 days compared to 56 days in the in the prior year.  

DSO has been fairly -- in a fairly tight range of 51 to 54 days over the last four quarters. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number so it's consistent with what is included in receivables. As we expected, unearned revenue was down sequentially. Reduction in unearned revenue from the June quarter was $395 million, slightly more than we had guided in our July earnings call. The following factors played a role in the change in unearned revenue. First, multi year licensing is traditionally lower in our 1st quarter of the fiscal year and this quarter was no exception. Second, there was a slight mix shift in the quarter from annuity licensing to OEM and license only agreements relative to our expectations. Third, a significant number of EA contracts expire in the last month of the quarter and the sales cycle for renewals is also lengthened. We have good visibility in these accounts. Our sales force is engaged in closing these deals and we continue to expect EA renewal rates to be in the range of 65 to 75%. The decreased in unearned balance is also impacted by a net decline of $96 million in revenue deferred for undelivered elements. You may also want to note that as of September 30th there's no significant remaining upgrade advantage revenue in the unearned balance. Unearned revenue included approximately $800 million in upgraded vantage revenue at the end of the 1st quarter last year. As you know, when we sign multi year contracts we often invoice for those contracts on an annual basis. The value of the unbilled portion of the contract does not reflect in our balance sheet until the invoices are sent for the subsequent years, resulting in contracted but unbilled revenue.  

Our contracted but unbilled balance has continued to increase sequentially and now exceeds $7 billion. We were pleased with the growth in total bookings this quarter. Before moving on to the business segment highlights I would like to point our weighted average diluted shares outstanding were 10.9 billion shares, about where we had expected. As John indicated during last quarter's conference call, we expected diluted share count to rise in Q1, as the higher stock price has put more stock options in the the money, and as we typically grant the bulk of our stock awards in the 1st quarter as part of our annual employee reviews. In conjunction with our annual employee review process, we granted approximately 32 million stock awards during the 1st quarter. We also repurchased 22.8 million shares in the quarter for $625 million. A portion of which was settled subsequent to the quarter close. In keeping with past policy we will not share specifics regarding the timing or pricing of our buyback strategy, but I can confidentially say that we have little concern about our ability to meet expectations of a $30 billion buyback over four year as outlined in July. Now, I would like to discuss our business segment results. Client revenue grew 7% to almost $3 billion, driven by strong PC shipments during the quarter. Windows OEM licensed units grew to 10% which drove 6% growth in OEM revenue. Our growth rate is lower than PC unit growth rate primarily due to the impact of the revision and product deferral rates on OEM revenue for the 1st quarter of the prior fiscal year, and the lower revenues in non-OEM channels and strong growth in emerging markets where we experienced higher piracy rates. Premium mix, fell from 62% last year to 60% this year, due to a decline in professional emergence of the product being sold to our commercial and retail channels, and addition to the OEM license growth, we saw a 7% improvement in commercial and retail licensing revenue for the client business in during the quarter. Operating income for client increased 6% or $140 million, primarily as a result of revenue improvements I just mentioned combined with lower head count-related expenses. Revenue from server and tools grew 19% to $2.2 billion, driven by a broad platform strength, including 19% growth in new Windows server license units, as well as growth in SQL server, exchange and core Cal revenue.  

Operate revenue for server and tools this quarter had strong growth, increased to $320 million or 84% to $701 million. This increase was due to the revenue performance I just mentioned, combined with lower head count-related expenses. Information worker revenue is up 14% this quarter to $2.6 billion as Office continued experience strong sales in both volume licensing, as well as preinstalled versions of Office sold on PCs. During the quarter, revenue from OEM licensing of information worker products grew 15%. The business also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates which provided $97 million of the total information worker revenue growth. For comparison purposes, you should also note that information worker had a favorable comparison to the 1st quarter of fiscal 2004 due to the $137 million of revenue deferred for Office 2003, product upgrade rights provided to customers who purchased Office in the 1st quarter of fiscal 2004. We were pleased to see that information worker operating income improved 18% to $1.9 billion, mostly due to the increased revenue and reduction in head count-related costs. Revenue from Microsoft business solutions was $160 million, up 9%, mainly as a result of the growth from Microsoft's CRM and Microsoft Exampler products, as well as increased revenue in the Microsoft partner program. The operating loss from Microsoft business solutions improved 40% on lower operating expenses. MSN reported a profitable quarter with improved operating margins driven by overall revenue growth of 10%. MSN's advertising revenue increased 23% during the quarter, again showing growth in both traditional online and search-based advertising. Revenue from subscriptions and transactions excluding Internet access increased $21 million as the premium services and software offerings continue to gain traction. As expected, revenue from Internet access declined 12%, as narrow brand subscribers continued to migrate to broadband or other competitively priced ISPs. The operating margin in the segment is improving as growing revenue coupled with operational efficiencies and lower customer acquisition expenditures.  

During the quarter MSN launched a technical preview of our new algorhythmic search engine. And launched the beta version of MSN music. The final version of MSN music was launched in October along with Windows media center edition 2005, media center extender, media center extender devices and a host of mobile devices from our partners that improved the digital entertainment experience. Revenue and local and embedded deviced was stronger than we expected growing 30% to $69 million. Mappoint revenues exceeded our expectations driven by the launch of new products such as Streets and Trips 2005 as did revenues from mobile devices. During the quarter T mobile, Hewlett-Packard and Motorola announced voice-enabled devices utilizing Windows mobile software. We also launched a Windows mobile-based portable media center which is a new category of multimedia player that allows people to enjoy all the digital entertainment they store on their PC on one portable device. Mobile and embedded devices continue to improve its operating profile, reducing its operating loss 41% from the prior year due to better than expected revenues and expense control. Turning to home and entertainment, revenue increased 9% to $632 million. The Xbox business continued to demonstrate growing momentum during the quarter with stronger than expected growth in console shipments and games. Based on September NPD data for the U.S. market, Xbox console share is 42%, up 16 percentage points from September 2003, representing the 11th consecutive month of year-over-year share growth. Over the last two months of the quarter, more Xbox consoles were sold in the U.S. market than Sony Playstation 2 consoles. Xbox software units sales in the U.S. also remain strong, according to NPD, increase 78% over prior years for the quarter and maintaining the highest cumulative software attach rate, 7.3 of any console at this stage in its life cycle.  

On November 9th we'll launch halo 2, which we expect to drive higher unit volumes and games revenue. Halo 2 is one of the most anticipated video games on any platform and has achieved 1.5 million preorders. Home and entertainment operating loss for the 1st quarter was $142 million, nearly a 50% improvement from the prior year, driven primarily by strong Xbox game sales. This has been a great quarter for Microsoft. Our revenue growth exceeded our expectations, and our cost structure was in line. All of our emerging businesses showed revenue and profitability improvements during the quarter but we have more work to do. We believe our concept C initiatives are well placed and are having a positive impact on our business results as we continue to deliver on our goal of growing revenues faster than expenses thereby expanding our operating margins. Now let me turn it over to John, who will give us some additional color on our performance this quarter, give you some thoughts about the macro environment and give you guidance on the results we are expecting in Q2 and for the full fiscal year.  

JOHN CONNORS, SVP & CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Okay. Thanks, Scott and Kurt and good afternoon, everyone. Let me start by making three key comments about the quarter. First, this was a very good quarter. In fact, a record 1st quarter in both revenue and profitability. Revenue growth of 12% and operating income growth of 29% reflects strong absolute and relative performance. We grew revenue by just under a billion dollars in the quarter, with our core platform business of client, server and tools and information worker combined growing double digit. This was especially strong considering the prior year included nearly $400 million in upgrade advantage revenue compared to very little in the current quarter. We saw good demand in both the PC and server hardware businesses. Our consumer businesses also continue to gain traction, and grow at a healthy clip. In fact, they contributed over $1.2 billion in revenue in the quarter. Innovations we have and will continue to bring to market in MSN, mobile and embedded devices and home and entertainment should continue to drive growth for the long term. We saw strength globally with all regions turning in double digit growth. We were also very pleased with our performance in emerging markets with double digit growth in Brazil, Russia, China and India. Second, we continue to deliver on our goal of growing revenue faster than expenses. On the year-over-year basis we improved the operating margins in each of our seven business units and MSN continued to be profitable. We are still on track to meet the directional goals we laid out at our analyst meeting in July. Specifically, for MBS, and mobile devices to reach profitability sometime in fiscal year '06, and home and entertainment sometime in fiscal year '07. The third point I would like to make about the quarter is our unearned revenue is down slightly more than we expected. Up front I want to caution you not to read this as an indicator of weakness in our business during the quarter.  

There was a slight mix shift to OEM channel and license only sales above our expectations, but overall bookings were quite strong. Also, as the quarter unfolded it became clear to us that customers were taking a bit longer to renew their contracts after they expire. I will comment about about why we don't see this as a concern when I discuss our full year outlook. Also I do believe that investors have become overly focused on unearned revenue and have missed the bigger picture. Forest and trees is an apt analogy. It is important to note that given our volume a single day or two of billings in our business can swing the unearned balance significantly. The simple fact is where the unearned balance sits at a particular point in time isn't all that important to evaluating the overall health of our business. I would also point out that historically the quarterly balance has been harder to predict than our year-end balance. Now let me turn to the details for our forecast for the December quarter and full fiscal year 2005, beginning with our assumptions for key macro drivers. We have reviewed and analyzed a number of CIO spending surveys that indicate a modest decrease in IT budgets since the surveys that were published in July. However, the surveys we reviewed have not resulted in any change in our view of the global economy, and IT spending with respect to demand for our products and services. Our PC and server hardware forecasts for the balance of the year remain unchanged, and we expect growth rates in corporate spending to remain just slightly lower than what we saw going into the quarter. The real message here is that our view of the tech economy and IT spending hasn't fundamentally changed but we are keeping a close eye on it. For full fiscal year '05, we anticipate PC shipment growth of 8 to 10%, reflecting the upside we saw in Q1. Our PC forecast for the remainder of the year remains unchanged from the end of July. The full year forecast continues to call for business PC growth to continue to outpace consumer PC growth. We expect 2nd quarter PC unit growth rates to be in the 7 to 9% range. For full fiscal year '05, our forecasted server shipment growth from July remains intact at 13 to 15%. As always, this represents a rollup of Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware. We expect the Windows server platform to grow faster than the overall server segment, just as it has for the past few years. For the 2nd quarter, we have forecast 14 to 15% growth in overall server shipments.  

Now, to revenue and unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons we make refer to the same period in the prior year. Debt revenue for fiscal year 2005 should be in the range of $38.9 to 39.2 billion. Up about 6%. This range is roughly 400 to 500 million higher than what we communicated to you in July, based on the $290 million revenue upside we saw in Q1, plus another $100 to $200 million upside in the forecast for Q2 through Q4 based on the strong momentum we are seeing on the server and tool business, and increases in volume assumptions around Xbox consoles and our expected success with the halo 2 launch. Net revenue for the 2nd quarter should be in the range of 10.3 to 10.5 billion. Starting with clients, full fiscal year revenue should grow around 6%. We expect 2nd quarter client revenue to grow about 5%. As we noted last quarter, this growth rate for both the full year, and the 1st quarter is slightly lower than PC unit growth expectations, primarily due to lower client revenue growth rates in the non-OEM channels, as well as strong relative emerging market growth where we experienced higher piracy rates. Additionally, we don't expect to see an increase in the Windows premium mix to drive revenue growth like we have in the past several years. Server and tools full fiscal revenue should increase 10 to 11%. We expect 2nd quarter revenues to increase 8 to 9%. We expect to see continued momentum in our core platform products. Windows server, SQL and exchange in the 2nd quarter. As I mentioned before, we are seeing customers take longer to renew certain contracts. This behavior could impact the normal seasonality we have traditionally seen in the 2nd quarter as some billings and related revenue recognition could be pushed out into Q3 or Q4.  

Also keep in mind that our full year and 2nd quarter growth rates are lower than those of fiscal year '04, due to the absence of upgrade advantage revenue in fiscal year '05 and limited foreign currency benefit in the 2nd half of this fiscal year. Additionally, we expect SQL revenue and our tools revenue growth will decline in the 2nd half of the year, ahead of those products new releases scheduled for quite late in fiscal year '05. Information worker full fiscal year revenue should be up 1 to 2%. Second quarter revenue should be down 4 to 5%, given the tough comparables with last year's launch of Office system 2003 in the 2nd quarter. For the full year, the growth is slower, similar to the server and tools business, as we will not have the upgrade advantage revenue, the benefit of the prior year's Office 2003 retail launch, and we will have a smaller foreign currency benefit for the full year, with very little benefit to none in the 2nd half. The information worker business is also being impacted by the slower customer renewal phenomenon that server and tools has experienced that we described. Microsoft business solutions full fiscal year revenue remains about $820 million. Second quarter revenue is expected to be just under $200 million. Last year, we had an exceptionally strong 2nd quarter so the comparables are a bit more challenging in this quarter for this year. MBS continues to outgrow the market and is building on great strength and momentum in Microsoft ERP products and Microsoft CRM. MSN full fiscal year revenue should increase 6 to 7%. Second quarter revenues should increase 4 to 6%. We expect to see the -- the fiscal year '04 trends in this segment continue throughout FY '05. The advertising business should continue to grow robustly, on a larger base of revenue, and our transaction and services business will continue to grow nicely. However, this growth will be moderated by a decrease in access revenue, as our narrow band subscriber base continues to decline.  

We expect segment profit to continue to improve, while we also invest heavily at the same time investing in focus areas like search technology. Mobile and embedded devices full fiscal revenue should be a little over $300 million, representing 30% growth. Second quarter revenue should be just over $80 million. This business continues to gain good market momentum. We expect to sell more smart phone licenses during Q2 than we have sold during all of last fiscal year. Home and entertainment revenue for the full fiscal year should be up 5 to 6%. We expect the 2nd quarter revenue to be up 1 to 3%, accounting for just over 40% of our full year guidance. We have got the strongest holiday lineup of first and third-party games in the history of the platform. We believe the launch of halo 2 on November 9th will be the entertainment event of the season, as preorders have reached record levels. I do want to mention a few key points on unearned revenue. We expect to end the year with unearned revenue at about 8.6 billion. This does include a net reduction of about $275 million in product deferral unearned over the course of the year. We also expect the contracted not billed balance to be up over the $7 billion that we ended with this quarter. If you consider our forecasted revenue, the change in unearned, and the change in contracted not billed for the year, you can see that we expect to complete the year with very solid bookings growth for the company overall. Likely the strongest software bookings growth in the industry. For the December quarter we expect the unearned balance to be up modestly on a sequential basis as a result of the seasonal increase in multi year billings and the renewals in the December quarter. With the trend of customers taking advantage of the time allowed to renew their contracts following expiration, it is difficult to precisely predict when a particular contract renewal will occur, and therefore difficult to predict unearned revenue at a given static date in time.  

While the timing of contract renewals may shift into the latter half of the year, we continue to expect renewals to continue to be within our historical ranges for the year. 65 to 75% for enterprise agreements, and towards the high end of the 10 to 30% range for upgraded vantage contracts. We are leaving our full year unearned revenue guidance unchanged. To be clear, these are the same trailing 12 month revenue recapture rates that we have supplied in the past, and the numbers haven't changed because our expectations have not changed. Many of you continue to look to channel checks to determine whether we are tracking to our stated renewal rates. While channel checks may provide a general idea of the potential health of our volume license business, it is risky and a bit tricky to broadly use the findings from a small sample of our thousands of channel partners to estimate how our entire volume and annuity license business is doing. Going forward, on a quarterly basis, we expect the directional behavior to be consistent with normal seasonality. That is seasonality prelicensing 6.0. That would be up in December, down a bit in March, and then up again in June. This year we expect a stronger half to seasonality versus the Q2 seasonality of the past. Most importantly, we feel good about bookings, and we feel good about how we will end the year. Now for the rest of the P&L. All of our guidance on cost of revenues and operating expenses includes stock-based compensation. Total stock-based compensation expense for the fiscal year 2005 should be approximately $2.5 billion, with approximately $715 million in the 2nd quarter. I would remind you that stock-based compensation in fiscal year '04 included $2.21 billion from our stock option transfer program. All costs are discussed as a percentage of net revenue. Cost of revenues should be a little under 16% for the full year. And about 19% for the 2nd quarter.  

The 2nd quarter cost of revenues will tick up on higher holiday Xbox console volumes, as they have the last couple of years. Research and development expense for the full year should be approximately 16%, and about 15% in the 2nd quarter. Sales and marketing expense for the full year should be about 21%, and a little under 21% in the 2nd quarter. And finally, general and administrative expense should be a little under 5% for the year, and just over 4% in the 2nd quarter. So in total, operating expenses should be just under 42% of net revenue for the full year. And about 40% in the 2nd quarter. This drives an operating income range of 16.4 to 16.7 billion for the full fiscal year, and 4.2 to 4.3 billion for the 2nd quarter. Investment income should be approximately $1 billion for the full fiscal year, and $300 million for the 2nd quarter. Our portfolio continues to be disproportionately invested in highly liquid, lower yielding instruments as we implement our cash management strategy and reduce our exposure to interest rate fluctuations. As a reminder, this forecast does not include any potential investment impairments, or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments. As we actively manage our foreign currency and interest rate exposures with derivative instruments, we do expect to see some gain or loss from these activities each quarter but it's impossible to forecast or predict. We estimate our effective tax rate at 33%. For guidance purposes, we are projecting an outstanding share count of 10.8 billion shares for the 2nd quarter, and 10.8 billion shares for the full year.  

We expect the overall diluted share count to decline toward the end of the year, and throughout 2005 and 2006 as we continue to repurchase shares and legacy options begin to expire completely. We took full year EPS and diluted guidance up 1 to 2 cents to a new range of $1.07 to $1.09, which does include 16 cents in stock-based compensation. And we expect fully diluted earnings per share to be 28 cents for the 2nd quarter, which includes 4 cents in equity compensation. Before I close, I want to share a few more thoughts about the balance of the rest of the year. First, we had a great quarter, and we are pleased with the results. The underlying fundamentals in our business were strong. Second, we let our upside for the quarter flow through and we added revenue and a few pennies to EPS in the remaining three quarters of the year. The momentum in our server business, and our continued game console market share gains, and increased software volumes with Xbox were the key drivers behind our decision to increase our guidance compared to the July forecast. Third, while we are going to continue to invest in the business, we are focused on growing revenue faster than expenses and expect margin expansion in all of our businesses this year. Fourth, while we've had some success in settling some of our legal exposures, the company and those in the IP industry should continue to be exposed to legal risk. Finally, we continue to see good momentum in every business. Behind the tough comparables of the prior year we are generating strong growth and terrific cash flow. We are expanding our operating margins and we are moving positively towards profitability in our emerging businesses.  

As we talked about at our financial analyst meeting in July, our innovation and product pipeline is broad and deep. We are making major advances in the consumer space. Just reflect on this quarter's announcements. Windows XP media center 2005 and the media center extender devices. Windows media player 10 mobile, the portable media center and MSN music. Next generation search and next generation Xbox are on the horizon. We are also making big advances on the enterprise front, and in our commercial efforts with SQL server 2005, Visual Studio 2005, our lineup of new management products, and our dynamic systems initiative. And, of course we continue to see success with Windows XP SP2 and we are very much looking forward to the long horn wave of products. We should have a very good FY '05 with the opportunity to further accelerate growth in FY '06 and beyond. Thank you for your continued interest and support. And with that, let me turn it back to Kurt for questions.  

KURT ANDERSON: Great, thanks, John. Thanks, Scott. Operator, with that we would like to now proceed to questions. We do have to accommodate questions from as many people as possible. Please limit yourself to just one question. Operator, if you could please repeat the instructions and get us started on questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And at this time, if you would like ask a question, please press star, followed by one on your touchtone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. To withdraw your question, press star two. One again, to ask a question, please press star, followed by one. Our first question comes from Tom Berquist with Smith Barney.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. We saw some pretty good strength in laptop shipments in the September quarter for some of the companies that reported recently, IBM most notably, and have you talked about enterprise being stronger than consumer. Are you seeing shift much more towards the laptop and is that why you are seeing a reduction a little bit in premium sales of XP to the more -- the lower editions?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, thanks, Tom. You know the laptop sales were quite strong in the business segment and the business segment was stronger than what we had seen in the prior year. For the quarter, our estimates are that the business segment grew about 12.5%, and the home segment grew a little bit over 6%. I think the mix shift not growing in terms of professional versions of Windows is really a function of it's just grown so darn fast that, you know, we probably captured the majority of the -- of the professional mix we're going to get. We do have an aggressive marketing campaign for the rest of the year coming out of the client group, but we would expect that professional mix to stay about where it is, given the business market versus consumer. And we would be disappointed to decline much but it should stay about where it is.  

TOM BERQUIST: Did you expect any efficacy to come from Intel's recent announcement in price cut of shipments of processors some of which was directed towards laptops?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, I think the general strength we saw was that the Amea region was a little bit stronger than we thought and business in general was a little bit stronger than we thought. I don't think they we had a big impact yet in terms of our expectations from any price cuts.  

TOM BERQUIST: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Charlie di Bona with Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, John. Can we go a little bit into the dynamics here on the unearned revenue side? It looks like had you a really big increase, maybe as much as a billion dollars in the unbilled balance. Are you seeing sort of an un -- more of a shift than you expected from two-year deals to three-year deals? Are you seeing signings of longer deals, perhaps? And is there any relationship between those dynamics and the product mix that's sort of -- that you are covering there as you sort of push into the server category more?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, great observation. The contract of unbilled strength has really grown over the last five months. And we are seeing a number of customers want to do longer term deals. And we had a couple of exceptionally large deals that are more than three years over that five-month period. What we generally see, Charlie, is the longer the deal, the more product included. And then we also see certain agencies, government agencies want to do longer term deals. I think the overwhelming majority of our contracts, though, will be consistent with those terms of the past. Where we saw some stronger license-only business versus annuity was in the midmarket. Our new enterprise agreement business in the midmarket was strong. But our license only business in that space was a bit stronger than we thought, and those customers opted for license versus enterprise agreements. So generally, you know, if we look at where we are right now, where we think unearned will end the year and where our contracted but billed stands, our aggregate booking volumes are very, very healthy, and when we look at how we're doing, compared to the rest of the commercial software industry, we're outperforming them pretty strongly.  

CHARLIE DI BONA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS: Hi. Thank you. A couple of quick questions. First, John, I guess piggy-backing on Charlie's question for a second. The OEM mix shift that you are seeing it seems like this is a continued theme and I'm just wondering, you know, how long do you expect this trend to last going forward? And what exactly is driving this shift? Aside from maybe the SMB business and also if you could follow up, why do you think clients are hesitating in signing your -- your EA contracts? Are you hearing from people, it's due to longhorn delays or is due to just the overall economic environment? Thank you.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yea, thanks, Heather. I will take the first question on the OEM license percentage increasing. You know, I think there are several factors. One is the server business is just darn healthy worldwide right now. If you look at 15% server unit shipments and then the Windows server unit shipments even being higher than that at 18%, there's just a heck of a lot of servers being sold and more customers, particularly in the midmarket space, want to buy that soft -- want to buy those servers with software preloaded. And we have what we call the commercial OEM or system builder side where we will accommodate those customers that want that. I think if you step back 24 months ago, we probably would have assumed that more of those customers in the midmarket we could move to a -- an EA or a multi year annuity of some type, but clearly a lot of them want to buy the software with those large volume server shipments and that's going to happen. So we'll sell them the software regardless of the -- the channel they want to buy it from. I think as long as server shipments continue to be as strong as they are, and as -- as successful as a number of our system builder and -- and OEM partners are being with the model, we'll continue to see a healthy percentage of the business migrate there. In terms of our enterprise business, and the multi year agreements, we do expect the recapture; that is the renewal rates for upgrade advantage to SA to be in that 10 to 30% range and it will very likely be the higher percentage, not the lower and we'll have a better sense of that as we get through the next two quarters and then on the enterprise agreement side, there are a couple of things you should really put into context and think about when trying to model that unearned balance quarter in, quarter out. First of all, the absolute volume and value of our enterprise agreement business is now quite big. And in fiscal year '05, we have a lot of contracts up for renewal. We feel very good about that renewal pipeline, and where we're at and historically, we have added more software to every one of those contracts than what what they had originally and we would expect that to continue. Customers do have the contractual right to renew after -- in a 90-day period, and those customers are going to take advantage of that renewal period, and it just so happens that this year there's a lot of renewals. I think that the third key thing is we have a very large volume of these contracts that happen in any given quarter, but particularly in -- in the 2nd quarter and the 4th quarter. We try very hard not to have a culture here and not have a sales incentive system that forces people to meet quarterly contract signings. People have annual quotas that coincide with our fiscal year. We don't want them doing unnatural things to make the quarterly number, whether that's discounting or otherwise. So there tends to be a lot better predictability about that annual renewal that coincides with our year end, than any quarterly number. And so given the volume of EAs we have this year, given the annual predisposition that our sales quota has and then just given the renewal terms that these contracts are entitled to, we're probably going to see more in Q3 and 4 with what we would expect to be an extraordinarily strong Q4, and probably a slightly lower Q2 than what some of you might have expected.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great, thank you, John.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks, John. Can you give us a sense for what the experience was during the quarter in those EA renewals? Was it closer to 30%? And also, why is it do you think you're seeing these extensions on EA, why you think it's taking longer for people to sign those?  

JOHN CONNORS: Good question. In terms of our -- what we saw in the quarter, our renewal was closer to the high end, Rick, on the upgraded vantage than the low end and we'll have a lot better sense of how that's going in this -- as we get through the 2nd quarter. In terms of the renewals, and why it is taking longer, I don't think it's taking longer. The volume is just higher and the customers are -- based on what our sales force is seeing, is figuring that a lot of them will go to the -- to the end of their 90 day term. You know, for us, that can mean, you know, you book three, four, 500 million of enterprise agreement renewals in two or three days in January versus getting them in December. So it makes that -- that snapshot date in any particular quarter end a little hard to predict. But generally, I think the sales force is very optimistic. They are feeling good about where we're at and I think they've got a good sense of how we'll do the rest of the year. So no, there is no cause for concern from our end.  

RICK SHERLUND: And to what degree is there pricing negotiation associated with that where the customers might be holding out for a better deal?  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, they clearly do use the renewal period for discounting. We're not seeing any unnatural discounting. You know, we have done a super thorough analysis over the last couple of months of discount trends and expectations over the last couple of years and no change to the empowerment guidelines we've given to general management or at the region level or in total. I think part of what does also take a bit more time in these renews is for the overwhelming majority of these customers, what they had originally was a desktop only EA with maybe some server. And as we go to renew, we absolutely want to attach a lot more server software, more developer tools and a lot more client access licenses and that does cause a longer sales cycle, and does take more time, and we're fine doing that to get more software attached.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Gibboney Huske with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you. I'm going to give you a break from the unearned. And just can you give us an update on where you are from the operating expense perspective? You talked about keeping and excluding the equity compensation charges, keeping operating expenses flat. As you kind of read through the release, there's a lot of discussion of, you know, spending in front of, you know, next generation client. So I guess kind of where are you on that front? And sort of expectations, you know near term and also maybe as you go into next year.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, great question. We said when we started this fiscal year that we expected operating expenses, cost of goods sold plus operating expenses to be largely flat and that -- you know, largely flat when it's $20 billion, year-over-year, we thought we would be up $250 million year-over-year. As we look out now, Gibboney for the rest of the year, we think our cost of goods will probably be about $90 million higher based on higher Xbox volumes in the 1st quarter, and expectation for higher Xbox console volumes Q2 through Q4. We have decided we will absolutely do that to acquire those customers and to really keep the channel in very good health ahead of Xbox 2. Then on the operating expense side, as of today, it looks like we'll probably be maybe $50 million higher than what we thought in July. Some of that will depend on, you know, the timing of marketing programs. Some of that will depend on third-party product development and certain product localization, and some of it will depend on how much we are forced to incur in legal fees. Generally I think we have a very good handle on where we're at. I think we're delivering a good cost efficacy initiatives. I think the troops are working hard on it here, managers are working hard. And next year, if we execute well and improve the top line performance relative to the tough comps of this year and we do a good job on the expense envelope, you know, '06, '07, '08 can be great years for continuing to build shareholder value.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE: Great. Thanks very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Jason Maynard with Merrill Lynch.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, John. A couple of questions on the server products. Did the, you know, SQL server 2005, do you think that is have any influence on, perhaps some of the enterprise agreement renewals or maybe [inaudible] as customers look to add product. And then the second piece would be your decision to, you know, go with multi core processor pricing. What impact do you think that has maybe, you know, in the long run, as you look at your server business? Thanks.  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks a lot, Jason. You know, I think -- our SQL server results were better than we expected, particularly ahead of the SQL 2005 release. You know, when I think about those customers looking at renewing, they just got a heck of a lot of stuff to evaluate relative to when they signed those EAs a couple of years ago. If you look at SQL server, if you look at exchange, if you look at share point services, if you look at all of the management products we have, all the network attached storage, the developer tools, the product lineup for an enterprise customer is remarkably richer and remarkably broader than two years ago. The net of that is, it's going to take more time to evaluate it, and, you know if unearned moves around a little bit because the contracts take longer but we get more business booked, that's okay. I think SQL 2005, will absolutely be a positive for multi year renewals as will a bunch of other products. That being said, we would expect to see some softness in SQL business that is license only in the tools business that is license only in half too as people anticipate those releases. In terms of the multi core processing pricing we announced, I think, you know, the best way to describe it is I don't think it has a material revenue impact in the near term, because those servers with that type of chip configuration are not likely to have significant share in this fiscal year. I think what we did was the right thing for the customer, and at the end of the day, we're going to get more share of all of those databases. We're going to get more share of all of those operating systems. We'll get more share of all of those server environments than the competition. And customers, I think, will appreciate the approach we have taken to pricing. You probably could say we might have left a little money open the table, but I think it's the absolutely right thing to do for the long term for customers.  

JASON MAYNARD: Is it fair to say you think about this in a similar way as you would move from say the 386 to the 486 is that kind of your mind set with this decision?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, I think that is it. It's really, you know, think of it how do you help customers take advantage of Moore's laws and major computing advancements? You know, 386 to 486, 16 bit to 32 bit, 32 bit to 64 bit so that is a good way to think about it.  

JASON MAYNARD: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Neil Herman with Lehman Brothers.  

NEIL HERMAN, ANALYST, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Yes. Obviously you guys have put together some OEM bundles for some of the emerging markets. Could you talk a little bit about what kind of early success you are having there, and if -- if you see significant revenue opportunities and if there's any impact on piracy in those areas, and then secondly, maybe you could give us some very general time frames with respect to your expectation of release to market of longhorn search technology and anti-virus.  

JOHN CONNORS: Okay, I will take the second one. In terms of the longhorn release, you know, there's nothing more to say today Neil, about that release than what was talked about in August. In in terms of anti-virus, you know we bought a company, a small company a year ago, and, you know, it's important that we have good security and anti-virus as an industry, so we are working hard internally and externally. In terms of search we should see some good MSN search technology in the -- in this calender year, probably the -- you know, late in the 2nd half, and we're going to have a heck of a great race in search between Google, Microsoft and Yahoo. It will be really fun to follow. In terms of emerging markets, you know, clearly the emerging markets, Brazil, Russia, and eastern Europe, India and China, represent, you know, terrific, terrific opportunities for all industries, including the technology industry. I think we're having some good success today selling mostly to government and large organizations in those countries, as we mentioned we have double digit growth in those markets. The piracy rates are still extraordinarily high. And at the consumer level. You know, I think it will take a combination of real interesting product, innovation on our part and the right currency but it will also require lower cost hardware to make a dent in consumer piracy. I think the industry is hard at work on that. We are hard at work on it. We'll experiment a bunch. We haven't made a big dent but those business, those countries are growing for us but relative to the whole, they're pretty small.  

NEIL HERMAN: I think in Thailand, you tried, one of your first experiments with OEM bundle of light versions of Office, so to speak and a version of XP home.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes.  

NEIL HERMAN: How successful has that been? And do you expect to extend that program fairly significantly into other similar markets?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, I think that we -- it was viewed as a success. It was in the academic government environment. Mostly because the customer thought it was a good thing that we did, and we -- you know we won that business. We'll have to do a number of things in those markets to be successful. We don't have anything to announce today. I think more broadly, though, a number of those countries are -- they are reducing poverty and growing a middle class, and growing wealth quite rapidly, as they reduce poverty, grow a middle class and increase wealth, they will buy the things that the developed world buys. And we'll patiently work with them while they get there and when it gets this, it should be good for not only us, but everybody in the software industry.  

KURT ANDERSON: Operator, we'll take one more question, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our final question comes from Drew Brosseau with SG Cowan.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Just under the nose. Thanks. John, I want to come back to the renewal process. And with two questions. One on the -- the upgraded vantage, if I remember right it was a July 31 deadline for the original program, which means that 90 days is this month. Are you seeing a -- people coming up this month, in particular, to deal with that? And second, it sounds like the lengthening of renewals and that whole process is part of a strategy of trying to upsell the customer to a broader set of products. Can you give us some sense of what the relative size of renewal is compared to the original contract?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes. Thanks, Drew. You know the largest volume of those upgrade advantage contracts were signed late in July and I think as -- and then when you add some distribution agreement dates, it's a bit longer for a number of the contracts than July 31st, if I remember right. So, you know, we start to see a big volume in this, you know, next couple of month period and we'll have a good idea. You know, also, we'll be quite, you know, diligent and flexible working with those customers on what is the value of software assurance, and what's the portfolio of products that were not part of UA that they may want to consider. So, you know, it could run beyond the renewal period, and they could enter other -- other contract forms, other licensing purchasing forms but you're right, the deadline contractually runs largely from that July 31st to kind of an August 15th time period. In terms of the -- the enterprise agreement renewal, we absolutely do try to sell a heck of a lot more software when we renew those contracts, and it is clearly a great opportunity for customers, and for Microsoft to -- to discuss things that weren't part of the original business. Generally what we have been finding is, you know, the contract sizes, it depends by region, and it depends by industry but I think generally, they're, you know, kind of 10 to 20 -- can be 10 to 20% higher but then you lose some of that with volume discounting. So it's hard to say exactly how much bigger they are, because they generally buy more software, but they also tend to get some discounting on that renewal. But the contracts are bigger. What we'll commit is as we finish this year, and get the -- renewal dynamic for the full year, because it is a very large year, we'll agree to really have something in depth to talk about next year at the analyst meeting so you can think about, well, what does it mean for '06, and what does it mean for those renewals that are '07 and beyond?  

DREW BROSSEAU: Great. Thank you.  

KURT ANDERSON: Okay, well, thank you, everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or anyone on the IR team directly. As I mentioned at the top of the call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business October 21st, 2005. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing 800-333-6498, using the passcode 1739. Or for international calls dial area code 402-998-1157. Again, the passcode is 1739. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business October 29th, 2004. Thank you all again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041104e0al0035z
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,520 words
   PD
22 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and thank you all for holding. Your lines have been placed on listen-only until the question-and-answer session of the conference. This call is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Curt Anderson, Senior Director Investor Relations.  

CURT ANDERSON, SR. DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Laura. Good afternoon, everybody and thank you all for joining us today. I apologize for the delay. We had a slight technical difficulty in getting the Web cast link up. So I appreciate your understanding.  

   TD
This afternoon I'm joined by John Connors, Chief Financial Officer, Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller, John Seethoff, Deputy General Counsel and Brad Smith our General Counsel.  

Today's call will follow our normal format. We'll start out with Scott providing some color about our fourth quarter results, and then turn it over to John to review our guidance for the first quarter and full fiscal year '05. After that, we'll be happy to take your questions.  

Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. Additionally, you may want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck which provides highlights from the quarter as well as a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures.  

You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights, and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations Web site at  www.microsoft.com/msft. I'd encourage to you review those documents for more specific information about today's quarterly results.  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording.  

And as always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live Web cast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations Web site. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on July 22, 2005.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. And any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of the factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2004 Form 10-Qs and our 2003 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Curt. And good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today.  

I'd like to start by giving you a brief overview of the quarter highlighting a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the fourth quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.  

From a revenue perspective, we had a strong quarter with revenue up 15%, to $9.3 billion, with all segments meeting or exceeding our expectations. Continued strength in sales of Office, strong demand for server products, better-than-expected OEM licensing of premium editions and higher MSN advertising revenue contributed to our overall excellent performance.  

We estimate that total PC unit shipments worldwide grew about 12% driven by strong business demand in both mature and emerging markets. The U.S., EMEA, Latin America and the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan all showed 10 to 13% growth. Japan grew about 3%.  

We estimate the total server hardware unit shipments grew about 16%, with Windows server shipments growing faster than the overall market at 18%. For the year, we saw 16% growth across all regions except Japan, which grew about 12%.  

In addition to strength in PC and server hardware shipments, we also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. Had rates been constant with the prior year, revenue would have been approximately $273 million lower in the fourth quarter and approximately $1.1 billion lower for the year.  

Cost of revenue increased to $1.5 billion, mainly due to a $94 million increase in product support and consulting services, and inventory adjustments for the Xbox consoles of $94 million, partially offset by lower MSN service costs.  

The balance of operating expenses decreased $543 million, due to significantly lower G&A, as the prior-year results included a $796 million charge primarily related to the settlement of the Time-Warner lawsuit, partially offset by an increase in marketing programs, and increased head count-related costs.  

Operating income more than doubled to $3.1 billion, due to increased revenue in the quarter, and the inclusion of $796 million of legal charges in the fourth quarter of the prior year. We are beginning to see the benefit of our increased focus on cost efficacy and initiatives in our operating results.  

Investment income totaled $570 million, including $406 million of losses on derivatives, resulting from the effect of interest rate and foreign currency movements. I should remind you that we do not forecast the impacts of derivatives on our investment income when we provide guidance.  

Moving on to other components of investment income.  

Realized gains on investments increased to 589 million, while dividends and interest income decreased 84 million, to 387 million, due to our desire to reduce portfolio interest rate risk, and to establish flexibility in the event we made changes in our cash management strategy.  

Last Tuesday, we announced our cash management strategy, including an 8-cent per share quarterly dividend, plans to buy back up to $30 billion of company stock over the next four years, and a special one-time dividend of $3 per share, which is contingent on approval of stock plan amendments to prevent adjustments to equity compensation awards. As we look at our cash management choices, our priorities were to increase our regular payments to shareholders, increase our stock buy back efforts, given our confidence in the company's growth prospects, and distribute additional resources in the form of a special dividend.  

At the same time, we wanted to be able to continue to make major investments across all of our businesses, and maintain our position as a leading innovator in the industry. We believe we have achieved those goals and our announced cash management strategy that will provide up to $75 billion in total value to our shareholders over the next four years.  

Net income for the quarter was $2.7 billion, with diluted earnings per share of 25 cents, including 5 cents of stock-based compensation and a 2-cent per share tax benefit, which resulted from the reversal of previously accrued taxes, related to resolving the remaining open issue, remanded by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals in its 2002 ruling.  

Recognition of revenue related to multi-year licensing agreements accounted for approximately 26% of total revenues during the quarter. This compares to 28% in the prior year, and 24% in the previous quarter.  

Our effective tax rate for the quarter was approximately 27%, reflecting the $208 million tax benefit related to the tax court ruling mentioned above.  

Now, turning to the balance sheet and cash flow.  

Cash and equivalents increased to approximately $16 billion, up from $6.4 billion due to our desire to reduce portfolio interest rate risk and to establish flexibility in the event we made changes in our cash management strategy. Cash flow from operations decreased 38% to $1.7 billion, primarily due to cash outflows related to Sun Microsystems settlement and the European Commission fine.  

Accounts receivables increased $953 million sequentially, consistent with seasonal trends. DSO, which includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number was 54 days compared to 55 days in the prior-year June quarter. Unearned revenue is better than our forecast, up sequentially $651 million to $8.2 billion.  

Multi-year licensing showed sequential and year-over-year growth driven primarily by new enterprise agreements, and renewal of expiring enterprise agreements signed with medium and large corporations. Select and open licensing was also stronger than we anticipated, partially driven by a continued demand for Office 2003, and our large portfolio of server products.  

The increase in unearned balance was partially offset by $200 million and the recognition of previously deferred Upgrade Advantage licensing agreements during the quarter, and a decrease of $143 million decline in revenue, deferred for undelivered elements. Contracted but unbilled revenue increased sequentially and remains above $6 billion.  

I'd like to point out our average diluted weighted shares outstanding were 10.86 billion, about where we expected. We did not repurchase shares in the fourth quarter, due to the company-imposed restrictions associated with our evaluation of our cash management strategy.  

Lastly, I'd like to highlight some business segment results.  

Client revenue grew 9% to $2.8 billion, driven by strong PC shipments. Windows OEM license units grew 13% which drove 16% growth in OEM revenue.  

The difference between OEM unit growth and revenue growth was driven principally by a two percentage point increase in the mix of premium additions of Windows OS up to 64%, as we experienced strong business PC shipments. The strength in client OEM revenue was offset by a 12% decline in commercial and retail licensing compared to the fourth quarter of last year, as customers purchased or upgraded their operating system through the purchase of a new PC versus an open or select licensing agreement.  

Operating income for Client increases 10% or $192 million, primarily as a result of strong corporate demand for PCs, coupled with slower growth in operating expenses.  

Revenue from Server and Tools grew 20% to $2.3 billion, driven by broad platform strength, including 20% growth in new Windows server license units, and increasing demand for enterprise additions of the company's core server products.  

Revenue growth was positively impacted by foreign exchange rates, that contributed approximately $95 million, or 5% of total revenue, and earn-back from previously-deferred, as well as earn-back from previously-deferred revenue related to Upgrade Advantage agreements.  

SQL Exchange enjoyed revenue growth rates of over 20%. Our consulting and premiere products support business grew 19%.  

Revenue from developer tools, training and certification, and MS press businesses, decreased 1%, due to the shift to lower revenue generating online training tools, partially offset by strong demand for Visual Studio.  

Operating income for Server and Tools increased to $567 million in the quarter, primarily due to strong demand for server hardware. Information Worker revenue was up 23% this quarter, to $2.9 billion, as Office continued to experience strong sales across all customer segments.  

During the quarter, revenue from OEM licensing grew 20%, and revenue from preinstalled versions of Office 2003 in Japan, volume licensing, and retail package product grew an aggregate of 23%.  

We were pleased to see the Information Worker operating income improve 33%, to $2 billion, mostly due to increased revenue including the benefit of earn-back from previously-deferred revenue related to the Upgrade Advantage agreements and positive foreign exchange impact during the quarter.  

Revenue from Microsoft Business Solution was $196 million, up 9%, mainly as a result of growth in licensing for Now Vision and Exacto products across the United States and stronger customer demand for Microsoft CRM in the U.S.  

During the quarter we launched Great Plains 8.0 with enhanced functionality and a new Office 2003 user interface. Additionally, we announced that 2500 customer entities have purchased Microsoft CRM.  

The operating loss from Microsoft Business Solutions improved 42%, on lower operating expenses. In June, we announced a restructuring of leadership effective July, 2004, designed to optimize the company's focus on delivering business applications to small and mid market businesses.  

MSN reported another profitable quarter with improved operating margins as well as better-than-expected revenue growth of 5%. MSN advertising revenues increased 35% during the quarter, again showing strength in both traditional, online, and search-based advertising.  

Revenue from subscriptions and transactions excluding Internet access, increased $28 million, as premium services and software offerings continued to gain traction. As expected, revenue from Internet access declined 28%, as the number of narrow band subscribers continued to migrate to broadband or other competitively priced ISPs.  

The operating margins of this segment are improving as a result of strong advertising and paid search revenue coupled with operational efficiencies and lower customer acquisition expenditures.  

The total subscription number ended up at 8.8 million, compared to 8.6 million for the prior year, as the gain in Internet services and Hotmail extra storage subscriptions was greater than the loss of access narrow band subscribers.  

Revenue in our Mobile and Embedded Devices grew 59% to 70 million on strong growth across all our product lines. Unit growth remained strong, particularly for products targeted at the PDA and embedded device markets where we hold a number one or two share position.  

During the quarter, we also announced the release of Windows CE 5.0, which provides building blocks for the next generation Mobile and Embedded Devices, as well as compelling value to our partners and customers. Additionally, over 1 million voice enabled devices were shipped utilizing Windows mobile software. Mobile Embedded Devices reduced their operating loss 38% from the prior year as the segment continues to scale.  

Turning to Home and Entertainment.  

Revenue increased 3% to $499 million. The Xbox business demonstrated continued momentum during the quarter with 27% growth in console shipments over the same quarter last year.  

Console sales through June were at a high end of our expectations, with 15.5 million consoles sold worldwide since launch. 10.1 million of these in North America, 3.9 in Europe, and 1.5 in Asia-Pacific. Based on June NPD data for the U.S. market, Xbox console shares 33%, up 10 percentage points from June, 2003, representing eight consecutive months of year-over-year shared growth.  

Xbox software unit sales in the U.S. also remained strong according to NPD, increasing 50% over prior-year, for the quarter, and maintaining the highest cumulative software attach rate of any console after 2.5 years in the market.  

Xbox Live continues to do well with over 1 million subscribers, meeting our expectations. Additionally, we added Electronic Arts during the quarter, to the premiere list of publishers providing great content and experiences to Xbox Live.  

Home and Entertainment's profit, operating loss for the quarter was $339 million, driven primarily by strong console volumes, and costs associated with inventory adjustments.  

In closing, this has been a great quarter and a fantastic year for Microsoft. We are proud of our accomplishments, particularly how our increased focus on cost efficacy is translating into improved operating margins, and the results of our emerging businesses. During fiscal year '04, the improvement in emerging business results generated a $770 million or approximately 33% improvement in operating losses.  

Now, let me turn it back to Curt and John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Scott. I'll now turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and our guidance. John?  

JOHN SEETHOFF, DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Scott and Curt. And good afternoon, everyone. Sorry for the slight delay today.  

Let me start with a few key points from the quarter's results and the fiscal year that just ended. This was a great quarter that closed a terrific year. Microsoft has been very proud of both our absolute and relative performance over the last several years, and fiscal year '04 was no exception.  

All of our seven businesses are growing, and in aggregate, they generated revenue growth of 4.6 billion, or 14% for the year. I think it is important to put that number into context. It is just a bit lower than growing a couple of Yahoos, or two EBays.  

Both are fine companies. We grew nearly two new companies that size in FY '04 revenue growth. Pretty healthy revenue growth this year.  

We also continued to improve the operating margins broadly, through our cost efficacy measures, and particularly in our emerging businesses, where those businesses are beginning to scale.  

We made an important transition in how we deliver stock-based compensation to employees during the year. We believe this will provide more predictable and consistent value to employees, and at the same time, significantly reduce shareholder dilution in the future.  

And finally, on Tuesday, we announced an unparalleled plan to provide cash to shareholders over the next four years. A very good year that ended strongly.  

Now, let me turn to the details of our forecast for fiscal year 2005, as well as the September quarter, beginning of with our assumptions for key macro drivers.  

We expect improved corporate spending in the second half of fiscal 2004 to continue into the first half of fiscal 2005, and then moderate in the second half as we hit higher year-over-year comparisons. Additionally, we expect consumer spending will continue to grow, but at slower rates than the very strong growth in fiscal 2004.  

For the full year fiscal year '05, we anticipate PC shipment growth of 7 to 9%, which is consistent with our expectations in April. We're coming off a year where PCs grew a healthy 13%.  

Absolute units are showing healthy growth in FY '05. And we think the 7 to 9% growth is quite respectable, given the strength of FY '04, and the resulting tough comparables.  

Our outlook calls for business PC growth continuing to outpace consumer PC growth. For the first quarter, we have estimated 6 to 8% growth for PC units.  

For full fiscal year '05, we have forecasted the server shipment growth will be between 13 and 15%, which is slightly higher than we estimated in April. As always, this represents a roll-up of both Intel, and proprietary UNIX hardware.  

We expect the Windows server platform to grow faster than the overall server segment just as it has for the past few years. For the first quarter, we have forecast 15 to 16% growth in overall server shipments.  

Now, to revenue, and unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year.  

Net revenue for fiscal year 2005 should be in the range of 38.4 to 38.8 billion, up 4 to 5%. This range is roughly 600 million higher than what we communicated to you in April, based on stronger-than-expected June quarter multi-year billings that benefit us in FY '05, and an increase in our volume assumptions for Xbox consoles, compared to that April outlook. Net revenue for the September quarter should be in the range of 8.9 to 9 billion, up 8 to 10%.  

Starting with Client, full fiscal year revenue should grow between 5 to 7%. We expect first quarter Client revenue to grow between 4 and 5%.  

This growth rate for both the full year and the first quarter is slightly lower than PC unit growth expectations, primarily due to lower Client revenue growth rates in the non-OEM channel, as well as strong relative emerging market growth where we experience higher piracy rates. Additionally, we don't expect to see an increase in the Windows premium mix to drive revenue growth like we've seen in the past several years.  

Server and tools full fiscal year revenue should increase between 8 and 9%. We expect first quarter revenue to increase 11 to 13%. We expect to continue to gain share in fiscal year '05, which we expect to be partially offset by the absence of upgraded managed revenue in '05, and little to no of the foreign currency benefit we've received in fiscal year '04.  

Additionally, a couple of important items on the product transition front. We expect SQL revenue to slow and Tools revenue growth will decline ahead of those products' new releases late in fiscal year '05.  

Information Worker full fiscal year revenue should be up 1 to 2%. First quarter revenue should be up 12 to 13%, given the lower comparisons in the first quarter of last year in front of the Office System 2003 launch.  

For the full year, the growth is slower, similar to the Server and Tools business, as we will not have the upgraded advantage revenue, and we anticipate little to no foreign currency benefit, or the benefit we receive from an Office launch.  

Microsoft Business Solutions full fiscal year revenue should grow to approximately 820 million, with first quarter revenue growth of approximately 14%. MBS continues to outgrow most of its competitors, and is looking to build on particular strength and momentum in Microsoft ERP products, and Microsoft CRM.  

I will point out that the Information Worker, Server and Tools, and Microsoft Business Solutions guidance reflects a change in both FY '04 actuals and FY '05 guidance, for where we account for our mid market product support revenue, and certain revenue from our partner programs, and both of these changes match our internal organization structure going into FY '05.  

The Server and Tools guidance includes approximately 60 million in PSS professional services revenue that would previously have been accounted for by Information Worker. Microsoft Business Solutions guidance includes approximately 100 million in partner program revenue that would have originally been in Information Worker.  

These changes will be included in year-over-year reporting beginning with the FY '05 first quarter results.  

MSN full fiscal year revenue should increase 8 to 9%. First quarter revenue should increase about 15%. We expect to see the FY '04 trends in this segment continue in the next fiscal year.  

The advertising business should continue to grow on a larger base of revenue, and our transaction and services business will continue to grow. However, this growth will be moderated by a decrease in access revenue as our narrow band subscriber base continues to decline.  

We expect segment profit to continue to improve, as we gain more operational efficiencies, while at the same time investing in focus areas like Search.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices full fiscal year revenue should be a little over 300 million. First quarter revenue should be approximately 65 million. This business continues to gain momentum in both the Smart Device and Windows embedded markets.  

Home and Entertainment full fiscal year revenue should be a little over 2.7 billion. First quarter revenues should be approximately 570 million. By the end of fiscal year 2005, we expect to have sold over 20 million Xbox consoles since launch, and have in excess of 1.5 million Xbox Live subscribers.  

Xbox continues to gain console share, and is driving industry innovation through investments in Xbox Live for consumers, and XNA for developers.  

I do want to mention a few key points on unearned revenue.  

We closed fiscal year 2004 with strong June quarter billings, which increased the June unearned revenue balance. For fiscal 2005, we expect the balance to grow to over 8.6 billion by year-end.  

This includes a net reduction of just over 300 million in product deferral unearned over the course of the year. So it should be a good year for our underlying annuity business.  

We also expect the unearned balance will demonstrate more normal seasonality where June and December are typically the stronger billing quarters with September and March experiencing sequential declines. As a reminder, the year-over-year comparisons will still be challenging in FY '05, as we do have Upgrade Advantage amounts in the prior fiscal year balances.  

For the September quarter, we expect the unearned balance to be sequentially down 200 to 300 million, as a result of seasonal decline in multi-year billings from the June quarter, partially offset by conversions of upgraded managed customers.  

We have had many specific and insightful questions around the expiring Upgrade Advantage contracts. We have forecasted renewing 10 to 30% of the expiring Upgrade Advantage revenue, through software assurance contracts, or alternatively, enterprise agreements.  

So far, we are tracking to the high end of that range. Not all of which would appear on the balance sheet, based on how the contracts are billed.  

The 10 to 30% range also continues to reflect our best estimate of how UA contract revenue we will review in Q1 and is reflected in our forecast. We are pleased with this result, and most of these customers have historically been license-only purchasers, and we expected the majority of them would continue to buy this way from us in the future.  

In the September quarter, we have approximately 1 billion in original Upgrade Advantage contract value that will hit its contract expiration date. This revenue was recognized over the past two years, and in the first quarter the contract period expires.  

As these customers originally purchased Upgrade Advantage, primarily based on price, and are generally our least-committed annuity customers, it would be very surprising to see conversion rates increase to the two-thirds to three quarter renewals we experience on EA contracts with our most committed annuity customers.  

Now, for the rest of the P&L.  

All of our guidance on cost of revenue and operating expenses includes stock-based compensation. Total comp-based compensation expense for fiscal year 2005 should be approximately 2.5 billion, with approximately 750 million in the first quarter.  

Stock-based compensation declined significantly from the 5.7 billion in fiscal year '04, which included 2.5 billion from our stock option transfer program.  

All costs that I discuss from this point forward are as a percentage of net revenue. Cost of revenue for the full year should be a little under 16%, and a little over 16% in the first quarter.  

Research and development expense for the full year should be approximately 16%, and between 17 and 18% in the first quarter. Sales and marketing expense for the full year should be between 21 and 22%, and approximately 18% in the first quarter.  

And finally, general and administrative expense for the full year should be a little under 5%, and a little over 5% in the first quarter. So in total, operating expenses for the full fiscal year should be approximately 42% of net revenue, and a little over 41% in the first quarter.  

We have made great strides in driving efficiencies in our fiscal year '05 plans for marketing, R&D and sales, and to improve our business processes and contain cost growth, without hindering our sales attainment or long-term growth opportunities. The net of all this drives an operating income range of 16.1 to 16.5 billion for the full fiscal year, and 3.7 to 3.8 billion for the first quarter.  

Investment income should be approximately 1 billion for the full fiscal year, and 270 million for the first quarter. We reallocated a significant portion of the portfolio into more highly liquid, lower yielding instruments, as we considered our cash management strategy and reduced our exposure to interest rate increases.  

As a reminder, this forecast does not include any potential investment impairments, or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments.  

We estimate our tax rate will be effective at 33%.  

For guidance purposes, we are projecting an outstanding share count of 10.8 billion shares for the full year, as well as the first quarter. We expect the diluted share count to rise in Q1 a bit, as the higher stock price has put more stock options in the money, and as we typically grant the bulk of our stock awards in the first quarter, as part of our annual employee reviews.  

As we begin to execute on our $30 billion stock buy back plan, and continue to transition from the stock options to stock awards, we expect the share count to decline towards the end of fiscal year 2005, and throughout 2006 and 2007.  

Fully diluted earnings per share guidance is 105 to 108 for the full fiscal year, and 25 cents for the first quarter. This is lower than the $1.16 to $1.18 we communicated to you in April, based on much lower investment income assumptions, as we begin to execute our cash management strategy in FY '05.  

I would like to share a few more thoughts going into '05.  

First, fiscal year '04 was a great year, so we've set ourselves up for tough comparables. In fiscal year '04, we recognized 1.1 billion from Upgrade Advantage contracts, a large portion of which we aren't forecasting to renew.  

Additionally, we benefited in FY '04 by 1.1 billion in favorable foreign exchange rates to revenue that we also don't expect to see in FY '05. These two items particularly impact the Information Worker and Server and Tools businesses.  

Additionally, we have the console pricing declines that are normal to the gaming market, and we expect continued declines in our MSN access revenue as we previously mentioned.  

Second, although Open Source continues to be a very significant source of competition, so far, we are competing well. In our Server business, we continue to see Windows licenses growing faster than underlying shipments.  

Third, as I've communicated before, and as Steve Balmer mentioned in his recent e-mail to employees, we are very focused on managing our costs. Overall costs are coming down over 5 billion in FY '05, and costs other than legal or stock-based compensation, are growing approximately 250 million in FY '05.  

If you think about that in context, we expect to generate an incremental 1.6 to maybe 2 billion in revenue, on 250 million of incremental costs.  

Fourth, we articulated our cash management strategy earlier this week where we announced plans to provide up to 75 billion in value to shareholders over the next four years. We feel good about the value we are returning to shareholders as well as the fact that we continue to invest in very large growth opportunities, while maintaining enough cash to have flexibility in the future.  

We continue to invest through the tough economic times, and with the strength we see in all of our businesses, we are poised for strong growth in the mid to long-term, if we continue to execute well.  

And finally, we've got a lot of momentum in every business. We generated 14% revenue growth in fiscal year '04. We are expanding our operating margins and we are moving positively toward profitability in our emerging businesses.  

Our innovation and product pipeline is quite strong. Windows XP, SP2, SQL Server 2005, Visual Studio 2005, Next Generation Search and Xbox console, combined with the Longhorn wave of products, lend Microsoft and enviable position.  

We should have a very good fiscal year '05, with the opportunity to further accelerate growth in fiscal year '06 and beyond.  

So in closing we look forward to seeing many of you next week at our financial analyst meeting here in Redmond where we will get a chance to share our business and product plans in greater detail. With Tuesday's cash management announcement, and today's earnings behind us, we can spend that day focusing on how we are growing the company through innovation. For those of you who won't be here in person, it will be Web cast on our Web site on July 29th and we hope that you will listen is as it promises to be a great day.  

With that, let me turn it back to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, John and thanks, Scott. With that, let's now proceed with questions. We want to accommodate as many of your questions as possible so please limit yourself to just one questions. Operator, will you please repeat the instructions?  

OPERATOR: Thank you. We will now begin the question-and-answer session. If you would like to ask a question, please press star one. You will be prompted to record your name. To withdraw your request you may press star two. Once again, to ask a question, please press star one. Your first question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, UBS WARBURG: Hi, thank you. John, a follow-up on your Upgrade Advantage contract renewals. I was wondering if you could give us an idea, what's driving people to renew? And if you can also give us a sense for what type of contract they're migrating to? Is it open, select or are you getting any of these people to merge or migrate to enterprise agreements? And also what are the average billing terms that these contracts are on? Thank you.  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yeah, thanks very much, Heather. You know, I think there's several factors that would drive the renewal.  

First would be the product road map, and how do they think it looks. Secondly, would be the specific benefits they see in the SA program with respect to training, with respect to deployment, with respect to product, and consulting support.  

In terms of the decision tree people are taking, we will see some folks go to SA, we will see some of those folks move to enterprise agreements, but we do have, I think, a realistic point of view that these were principally licensed customers that aren't likely to move to multi-year annuity in the way that we have been successful with EA renewals. We have a large number of contracts in the next quarter expiring and so we'll have a better sense by the end of the quarter, but we will see some of them move to EA, we will see some SA, and we will see some that do nothing.  

In terms of their billing choices, obviously it's a two to three-year choice, under that SA program, and then in the enterprise agreement, it's consistent with our enterprise agreement terms.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Charlie Di Bona with Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLIE DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Hi. I was wondering if we could just focus for a second on some of the nonoperating items and relate them to how we should be looking at the cash management plans going forward? First just one clarification. If I heard correctly, the $406 million of derivative loss, that 2.5 cents of earnings was not incorporated in your guidance originally?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: It was not Charlie.  

CHARLIE DI BONA: Okay.  

JOHN SEETHOFF: And there's two components to that. We had a significant move of our portfolio out of long-dated fixed income instruments, to shorter-dated instruments, as we thought about our cash management strategy, as well as anticipated interest rate increases. As we moved that money out, we also closed a large number of the underlying risk-related derivatives, principally interest rate and swaps, those have to run through the P&L as you close them.  

From a total economic perspective, we're very glad we did that. Had we not moved, we would have been worse off from an economic perspective to the tune of about 300 million, as principal values dropped as rates went up.  

Secondly, we also put in position all of our net revenue hedges for the year in the quarter, as the dollar moved around pretty significantly relative to the yen, the euro, the sterling, that premium runs through the P&L based on the volatility. So we did not forecast that at the start of the quarter. And there'd be no way for to you incorporate it.  

CHARLIE DI BONA: And then looking forward into next year, related to sort of Tuesday's announcement, it doesn't look like you're incorporating any of the repurchase plan into your guidance. And then on the special dividends side, it looks like you're guiding to about a quarter of the investment income in Q1, but the $32 million outflow doesn't happen until nearly midway through your fiscal year. Can you sort of jive that for me?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yeah, in terms of the repurchase, you know, we are going to have to be relatively large scale, given the scale of the repurchase, but we also will want to be somewhat opportunistic, so the share count guidance will be a bit hard to get perfect. But we'll try to do it in a shareholder way that is good.  

In terms of the repurchase, there's, the first part of the year, we do have the share count increasing above where we are today on guidance due to the fact we'll give our stock awards in the first quarter and given the increase we have in our stock price, more stock options that were out of the money or in the money, due to the treasury stock method of calculating fully diluted shares, that count is up, so we will have some increase that we would offset.  

Secondly, in terms of the investment income forecast, our balance will be quite large in the first part of the year. Obviously, the first quarter will be the largest average balance of the entire year. So we are anticipating a bit higher investment income as a result of that.  

We'll pay the special dividend out in the second quarter, along with, subject to shareholder approval, along with the first quarter dividend that we announced. In the second half of the year, we'll have a smaller balance, a little bit higher effective return than on average in the first part because we've got so much money in short-term instruments in the first half.  

CHARLIE DI BONA: Okay. Thank you very much.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Drew Brosseau with S.G. Cowen.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, S.G. COWAN SECURITIES CORPORATION: Thanks. Hi, John. Just wanted to follow-up on Heather's question on UAs. You said you're tracking toward the higher end of your 10 to 30% range and looking for unearned revenue to come down sequentially. Given that we're coming into the heaviest sign-up period here, can you walk through what the trade-offs are between your renewal assumption, and that step up in things coming up for renewal? Why wouldn't, for example unearned revenue possibly increase this quarter? What's the offset?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yeah, good question, Drew. And it is, it's probably, you're right on, on why that wouldn't happen. You know, we had very strong bookings in the fourth quarter particularly the June month across the board, in everything but particularly in the enterprise agreement space. We expect that the enterprise agreement bookings will be down seasonally as they always have been in Q1, and I think we have the appropriately modest expectations for Upgrade Advantage renewals in Q1.  

Those Upgrade Advantage contracts that expire, do have a grace period with them of 60 to 90 days. I know our field sales force around the world has a very clear mandate to do what is right from a customer satisfaction perspective. Some of those grace periods stretch out a bit farther. I'm sure that would be accepted.  

Hopefully, we will do better than what we expect. The U.S. has been probably more at that high end. And we did start to see in Europe some improvement in their UA to SA conversion, but until we actually see it improve quite a bit, we'll keep it where it's at.  

It also is important, though, we really don't see these customers getting to the kind of renewal rates of those enterprise agreement customers that have been multi-year in nature. Hopefully we'll be proved wrong, but we think that where we're at is probably the right forecast.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. John, can you tell us why the deferred revenue number is looking higher now for the year than we thought before, what maybe changed in your assumptions there? And also, back on the interest and other, are you assuming further derivative losses? I guess you said that's hard to forecast, but if you can help us out with some of the math on that number, it's a bigger hit than I would have thought. Is any of the interest income relating to the strategic portfolio that we, you know, are still going to have? And also, on the topic of strategic portfolio, it looked like that number's come down some, are you doing something to liquidate some of those investments as well?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yes. Thanks, Rick. In terms of the deferred being higher, in terms of the fourth quarter, we just, we had a very good quarter and it ended strongly in the month of June, which is generally a very large enterprise agreement month.  

For the full year, I think there's several factors. One is, the volume of renewal is quite high across the board in enterprise agreements, obviously as well as Upgrade Advantage.  

Then I think finally, our value proposition and product road map is pretty good and the field sales force is executing pretty well. So I think the sense is, we should see a pretty good increase in that annuity base that is going to allow us to grow unearned despite the fact that the product unearned deferral will take it down somewhat.  

In terms of the investment income forecast for the year, and what's going on with strategics, the strategics is mostly a function of mark-to-market being down a little bit, and there's a few positions in there that I think were narrowed somewhat but nothing substantially. There's no significant change in the strategic equity portfolio in the quarter or expectations.  

In terms of the change in investment income, there's probably two factors. One is, we will have a very substantial amount of money in the first half of the year earning very, very low return, and so that is factored into the full year and the first half.  

And then I think the second half of the year, our treasury folks expectation is that yields and returns are going to be pretty modest. If you look at our historical distribution of our treasury portfolio, where we had about 70% in fixed income, and 30% in equities or other instruments, they think that fixed income yield is going to be pretty low in fiscal year '05, even in half two, as a result of increasing interest rates.  

RICK SHERLUND: Okay. And John, we've had some investment gains kind of recurring in a number of the quarters, and we've kind of have gotten used to that. Are we losing those as well since you don't have the, you know, the volume of investments?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yeah. Right now, we would expect that is probably forecasted at a much lower rate than the last couple of years due in large part to the big move to a highly liquid position. And you know, we moved a lot of that money this quarter, and then with an interest rate, an increasing interest rate environment, at least on the fixed income portfolio, those gains would likely be lower.  

RICK SHERLUND: Good. And no material impact expected from Service Pack 2 shipping? Or you think that could be a surprise for us?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: You know, I would say in this forecast, there really isn't assumed upside from Service Pack 2. There is a fairly significant level of investment in both marketing and distribution, as well as security readiness for customers, but I think we'll probably have, we have modest expectations, and I think our customers sat as well as distribution is probably the biggest focus we have. Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator we're going to take just two more questions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next comes from Gibonney Huske with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you. My question's on EA renewals. You're talking about sort of the new product road map or product pipeline driving incremental EA business, and obviously you got SQL Server coming and Visual Studio, it seems like there would be more, you know, opportunities to add new products on to existing contracts as opposed to something that would drive a new customer to the EA program. Could you talk about sort of how you see that playing out particularly, you've had a big Office upgrade, there's a pretty long gap until you get the next operating system upgrade. How is that kind of being positioned?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yeah, there is probably two things we're trying to do on the enterprise agreement front. First of all, sell more enterprise agreements, particularly in the small and mid market space where our penetration is much lower. And then secondly, successfully renew all enterprise agreements regardless of the segment.  

In terms of the renewal, we are fortunate to have a much broader product lineup as we go into renewal, particularly for those customers that say I want to think about a broader Microsoft solution than I had in the past. So we do have a much broader product lineup, whether you think about the server products, the Cal products, or additional products from the Information Worker group that is much broader portfolio than several years ago. So the portfolio is broader for renewals.  

Secondly, for new customers, the pricing and the value proposition is quite good for those license-only folks in the mid market, so I think we do have some good value on the enterprise agreement renewal front, and the enterprise offering front, and I think both are renewal and new sales in the fourth quarter are pretty good testament to that.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Jason Maynard with Merrill Lynch.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, John. Maybe shift gearing for a second. You talked about improved corporate spending in the first half of fiscal '05, I mean, obviously there's been a little bit of pain in the software, enterprise software segment. Can you maybe comment on what Microsoft saw and how that may influence, you know, what you see for the rest of this calendar year and even looking at some of your customer renewals?  

JOHN SEETHOFF: Yup. Thanks, Jason. You know, there's probably two macro items I would look at and then a couple of specific things. In the fourth quarter, we saw PC shipments were up 12%, but the business segment was up even a bit higher than that.  

Secondly, people are buying servers, and people are buying Intel-based servers, and people are buying Windows Intel-based servers in large volume. Secondly, you know, I think that their corporate profits have improved fairly dramatically and so budgets generally, and IT budgets specifically are up, and from our field reports, I think they feel like the quarter was solid, June was a very good month. And they feel pretty good about fiscal year '05.  

Fortunately we don't have them worrying about foreign exchange, and we don't have them worried about things like that. They're just worried about building the book of business for '05, and beyond. And they actually feel pretty good.  

You know, if you look at the unit shipments we expect for the PC business worldwide, and for the server business worldwide, after the growth we had this year, to have the sort of percentage increases we're seeing, it's pretty darn good. And we think that the business market in the PC front will be up, you know, almost 10% next year, while the consumer's a bit lower, and you know, just given the absolute number of units, that's healthy demand.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Operator, that will do it for the questions. Thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. Once again, we apologize for the delay. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact me or my team directly.  

As I mentioned at the top of the call the this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations Web site through the close of business July 22, 2005. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing 888-501-2973, use the pass code 6825, Or for international calls, dial 203-369-1832 and again use the same pass code 6825. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business on July 30, 2004. Thank you again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040805e07m002pg
  


 HD
 Q3  2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
8,776 words
   PD
22 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and welcome to the fiscal year 2004 third quarter conference call. Your lines have been placed in a listen-only mode until the questions-and-answer session of the call. Today's conference is being recorded. If you have any objections, please disconnect at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Curt Anderson, Senior Director Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.  

   TD
CURT ANDERSON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, IR, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Laura. Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you all for joining us today. This afternoon I'm joined by John Connors, Chief Financial Officer, Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller, and John Seedove, Deputy General Counsel. Today's call will follow our normal format. We'll start off with Scott providing some color around our third quarter results and then turn it over to John for a review of our guidance for the fourth quarter and the full fiscal year '04, as well as a preliminary view of FY '05. After that we'll take your questions.  

Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. Additionally, you may want to review our quarterly financial summary slide deck which provides highlights from the quarter, as well as a reconciliation of differences between GAAP and nonGAAP financial measures. You can find the earnings release, the financial highlights and the quarterly financial summary slide deck on the Investor Relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft. I'd encourage you to review those documents for more specific information about the quarter's result.  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business April 22nd, 2005.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report, or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the expressed permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2004 Form 10-Qs, our 2003 Form 10-K, and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement.  

With that let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results.  

SCOTT DI VELARIO, CORPORATE VP, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks Curt and good afternoon, everyone. Thank you for joining us today. At this time I'll provide an overview on the quarter and highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mention relate to the third quarter of last year unless otherwise specified.  

From a revenue perspective, we had a strong quarter with net revenue up 17% to $9.2 billion with nearly all of our seven business segments exceeding expectations and growing double digits. Better than expected OEM sales of Windows XP, continued strength and sales of Office 2003, strong demand for server products, healthy Xbox console and software sales and higher MSN advertising revenue contributed to our overall excellent performance.  

We continue to receive a benefit from favorable foreign exchange rates, primarily driven by the weakened U.S. dollar. However, the impact was generally in line with the guidance we gave you in January. Had rates been constant with the prior year, revenue would have been approximately $350 million lower. We estimate that total PC growth was about 14% driven by strong business demand in both mature and emerging markets. Total server hardware units grew about 17%, with Windows sever shipments growing faster than the overall market at 25%.  

Total operating expenses came in at $7.9 billion, including $748 million of stock-based compensation expense. G&A costs were higher than expected due to $2.5 billion of legal charges, resulting from the settlement of the Sun Microsystems litigation and the accrual related to the European commission fine. Operating income decreased 53% to $1.3 billion, primarily due to the legal expenses I just discussed. Investment income totaled $1 billion, higher than our guidance, primarily due to higher realized gains resulting from generally improved market conditions.  

Net income for the quarter was $1.3 billion, with diluted earnings per share of 12 cents. Including 17 cents related to the Sun Microsystems settlement and the accrual as related to the European commission fine, and 5 cents in stock-based compensation. Recognition of revenue related to annuity licensing agreements during the quarter, accounted for approximately 24% of total revenue. This compares to 26% in the prior year and 22% in the second quarter of this year.  

Now let me take a minute to provide some color around PC demand. We estimate that total PC unit shipments worldwide grew about 14% during the quarter. The U.S., EMEA and Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, all showed low to mid double-digit growth. Japan and Latin America grew in the mid to high single-digit range. We continue to see strong unit growth in emerging markets where a greater percentage of PCs ship with pirated copies of our product or without a Microsoft operating system. As a result, growth in underlying PC unit shipments does not always correlate directly with our operating system license growth numbers.  

Now let's get to the business segment results. Client revenue grew 16% to $2.9 billion driven by stronger than expected PC shipments. Windows OEM license units grew 16%, which drove 18% growth in OEM revenue. The difference between OEM unit growth and revenue growth was driven principally by 2 point increase in the mix of professional versions of Windows up to 58% as we experienced strong business PC shipments.  

Revenue from commercial and retail licensing grew less than the OEM channel as customers purchased or upgraded their operating systems through the PC purchase of a new PC. During the quarter client operating income declined 16%, primarily as a result of the $700 million charge related to the settlement of the Sun Microsystem litigation.  

Revenue from Server and Tools grew 19% to $2.2 billion, driven by healthy demand for Windows server, Exchange, SQL Server and Visual Studio products. Rapid customer adoption of Windows server continued with new licenses growing 31% compared to the prior year. Similar to previous quarters, we saw strong growth in server OEM sales.  

Our consulting and premier product support businesses grew 11%. Revenue from developer tools, training and certification and MS press business decreased 38% due to the recognition of $128 million of previously deferred revenue in Q3 of the prior year. Server and Tools had an operating loss of $940 million primarily due to a charge related to settlement of Sun Microsystems litigation of approximately $1.2 billion.  

Information Worker revenue was up 18% to $2.7 billion, as Office experienced strong sales across all customer segments. During the quarter OEM licensing revenues grew 35% and revenue from preinstalled versions of Office 2003 in Japan, volume licensing and retail package products grew an aggregate of 15%. Information Worker operating income improved 14% during the quarter, primarily due to the increase in revenue.  

Revenue from Microsoft Business Solutions was $153 million, up 4% primarily due to continued growth in licensing of Navision products outside the United States. We continue to focus our efforts on delivering high-value products to our customers and improving our execution across the board. The operating losses from Microsoft Business Solutions improved 29% on lower operating expenses.  

MSN reported another profitable quarter with improved margins, as well as better than expected revenue growth of 16%. MSN advertising revenue increased 43% during the quarter, again showing strength in both traditional on-line and search-based advertising.  

Revenue in the subscription side of the business decreased about 6% year-over-year as the business continues to see a decline in its narrow band subscriber base. The subscription number ended up slightly above the December quarter at 8.2 million as the loss of narrow band subscribers was offset by the gain of Internet services and hot mail extra storage subscription. Revenue in the mobile and embedded devices grew 33% to $61 million on strong growth across all our business.  

Additionally, upcoming Windows mobile-based smartphones like Motorola MPx and MPx100 generated tremendous enthusiasm at the 3GSM conference in February. We released Windows mobile 2003 second edition software during the quarter as we continue to improve the software experience on mobile devices. Mobile and embedded devices operating loss improved 47% due to lower operating expenses.  

Now turning to home and entertainment, revenues increased 17% to $530 million. Xbox console volumes increased 30% over the same quarter last year. In the U.S., March NPD data showed that Xbox market share has increased 8 percentage points from 22% in March 2003 to 30% in March of 2004.  

The Xbox business continues to execute with steady console growth, strong software sales, increasing numbers of subscribers using our Xbox Live gaming service and the highest U.S. attach rate of any console after just over two years in the market at 6.8. Operating loss for the third quarter improved 25% driven by revenue growth and improved Xbox console and third-party software margins.  

Moving on to the rest of the income statement, cost of revenue increased slightly to $1.4 billion due to the higher cost of services, as well as the higher volume of Xbox consoles. The balance of operating expenses increased $2.7 billion primarily due to charges related to the settlement of the Sun Microsystems litigation, accrual for the European commission fine, and other legal expenses. Sales and marketing came in about where we expected, and R&D was a bit below our guidance due to lower headcount-related costs.  

Operating income was $1.3 billion, including the legal expenses which were partially offset by stronger than expected revenue. Investment income of $1 billion increased significantly from the third quarter of 2003 due to improved market conditions, resulting in higher gains on the sales of investments and significantly lower impairments. Our effective tax rate for the quarter was 42% reflecting the nondeductability of European commission fine.  

Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow from operations increased 19% to $4.9 billion reflecting strong revenue and changes to working capital. During the quarter we spent approximately $1.4 billion to repurchase nearly 50 million shares. Accounts receivable decreased $671 million sequentially consist went seasonal trends. DSO was at 51 days compared to 49 days in the prior year March quarter. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number so it is consistent with what is included in receivables.  

Other current liabilities increased $2.5 billion primarily as a result of the accrual for the settlement of legal claims with Sun Microsystems and InterTrust. The $440 million InterTrust settlement involved a combination of license of IP assets valued at $266 million and a payment of $174 million for past infringement. This settlement is reflected in our financial results, do not impact the income statement because it was partially funded through insurance.  

Unearned revenue was down seqentually $326 million to $7.5 billion, slightly better than our forecast. Annuity billing showed year-over-year growth driven primarily by new enterprise agreements signed with large corporations. License-only billings were stronger than we anticipated, partially driven by continued momentum for Office 2003 and strong demand for our server products.  

The upgrade advantage contract amortization during the quarter was $261 million compared to $296 million in December 2003 quarter and $450 million in the prior year March quarter. The undelivered element portion of unearned revenue decreased by $123 million due to the reduction in our product deferral rates for Windows and Office during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. We expect the undelivered elements portion of unearned revenue to continue to decrease as the lower deferral rates add to the account at a slower rate than the current period recognition. Contracted but unbilled revenue increased sequentially and remains over $6 billion as customers continue to buy or renew enterprise agreements consistent with the previous few quarters.  

Finally, I'd like to point out our average diluted weighted shares outstanding were 10.86 billion right about where we expected. We continue to actively manage share dilution through our various buyback programs.  

Let me turn it back to Curt and John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Scott. I'd now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and guidance. Thanks.  

JOHN CONNORS, CFO, SR. VP, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Scott and Curt. And good afternoon, everyone. I'd like to begin with a couple of announcements. I'm pleased to announce that Brent Callinicos will transition from his current role as Corporate Vice President and Treasurer to lead our Worldwide Licensing and Pricing group. Replacing Brent as Treasurer will be Assistant Treasurer, George Zin. Each of these executives has made significant contributions in their current positions and brings a wealth of experience to their new roles. I want to offer my congratulations to both of them.  

As a reminder, investors should continue to be aware of risks that we have identified in the past and that we include in our filings. Now a few comment regarding this quarter's outstanding performance. Our three largest businesses each turned in excellent results with Information Worker, Client and Server and Tools growing a combined 17%, and our emerging businesses all met or beat our expectations. With MSN outperforming on continued strength in the advertising business, and Xbox turning in better than expected console and game sales.  

Business PC demand for the third quarter was much better than we had forecast with particular strength in North America, EMEA, and Japan. The server segment did better with Windows Server shipments growing almost 25%. Last quarter we said we were beginning to see evidence of an improvement in the corporate IT market. Our results this quarter demonstrate that we are in the midst of a corporate recovery. Our customers are really seeing the great value in our newer products.  

Office 2003 had retail sales that were twice that of Office XP at the five-month mark. Small Business Server 2003 had unit sales 170% higher than that for Small Business Server 2003 at the six-month milestone. And Windows Server 2003, which was launched a year ago, is our most successful server operating system product to date with customer license sales double any previous version over a comparable period since its launch. Finally, our long-term operating model is also benefiting from total costs, excluding legal settlements, growing at lower rates than revenue growth.  

Now let me turn to the details of our forecast for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2004, beginning with our assumptions for the macroeconomic environment. We expect the improvement we saw in corporate spending to continue for the remainder of the fiscal year. Corporate profits are up and businesses seem more willing to invest in IT projects. Growth in consumer PCs should slow a bit relative to the very strong first half we saw this year. Our forecast for the fourth quarter reflects these trends.  

For full fiscal year '04 we are raising our PC forecast a bit to the low teens. We now expect that business PC growth will outpace consumer PC growth in the second half of the fiscal year, reversing the trend that we saw in the first half. For the fourth quarter, we're looking for roughly 10% overall growth. Our early view for FY '05 is that PC unit growth will likely be mid to upper single digits.  

For the full fiscal year '04, we have raised the server hardware forecast to a little over 14%. As always, this represents a roll-up of both Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware. We expect the Windows platform to grow faster than both the Intel and overall server segments. For the fourth quarter, we are looking for roughly 13% growth in the overall server segment. In fiscal year '05 we think server shipment growth should be between 11% and 13%.  

Now to revenue. And unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year. Net revenue for the June quarter should be in the range of $8.9 to $9 billion, up 10 to 12%. This implies that the full year FY '04 revenue, will be approximately $36.4 to $36.5 billion, or growth of about 13 to 14% over fiscal year '03.  

Now let me break this guidance down by business segment. Starting with client. Fourth quarter revenue should increase 8 to 9%. This growth rate is slightly lower than PC unit growth expectations due to exceptionally strong relative emerging market growth in Q4, as well as lower client revenue growth rates in the retail and commercial channels.  

Server and tools. In the fourth quarter, revenue should grow between 15 and 18%. We feel great about our performance this year in an extremely competitive environment. Customers are adding more server products and access licenses to their enterprise agreements and our mid-market and small business results continue to be very solid.  

Information Worker revenue for the fourth quarter should be up 15 to 16%. We will continue to focus on driving adoption of the new Office system during the fourth quarter and in fiscal year '05. Our SKU differentiation for Office 2003 with the new small business and student and teacher editions, has been received quite positively by customers driving accelerated adoption in small- and medium-sized businesses, as well as at retail.  

Revenue from Business Solutions should be just about $180 million for the June quarter. This is down from the implied fourth quarter guidance we gave in January by roughly $25 million. The reduction is due principally to lowered expectations in the United States. Non-United States results and sales of the Navision line of products continue to fuel the growth of the MBS business. MBS continues to outgrow many of its competitors and our focus is to improve this business unit's performance over a multi-year period.  

MSN revenue for the fourth quarter should be approximately $570 million. We continue to benefit from the same trends we have discussed over the course of this fiscal year. Our gains in the advertising segment of our business have outpaced lower access subscription revenue as our narrow band subscriber base declines. MSN also continues to contribute to our bottom line with another profitable quarter. This business has definitely emerged.  

Mobile and embedded devices revenue for the June quarter should be about $55 million. This represents growth of over 25% on an increasing base of business. Home and entertainment revenue for the fourth quarter should be approximately $460 million. Consistent with the guidance we reiterated after the holiday quarter, we still are on track to have 1 million Xbox Live subscribers and life to date Xbox console sales of $14.5 to $16 million by the end of the fiscal year.  

We forecasted in January that the unearned revenue balance would end the fiscal year pretty close to where we ended the December quarter. March ended a little better than we expected, driven by signings of enterprise agreements and open annuity contracts. We should end fiscal year 2004 at or a little higher than we ended December. As a reminder, when we complete this fiscal year we will have recognized virtually all of our upgrade advantage revenue.  

Now for the rest of the P&L. All of our guidance on cost of revenue and operating expenses includes stock-based compensation. Total stock-based compensation expense for the fourth quarter should be approximately $750 million. For the fourth quarter and as a percent of net revenue, cost of revenue should be a little over 16%. Research and development expense should be just under 20%. Sales and marketing expense should be just under 27%. Finally, general and administrative expenses should be just under 6%. So in total, operating expenses for the fourth quarter should be approximately 52% of net revenue.  

This drives an operating income range of $2.8 to $2.9 billion for the fourth quarter and $8.7 to $8.8 billion for the full fiscal year, which includes the $2.5 billion of charges in the third quarter for the Sun settlement and the European commission fine, as well as $5.7 billion for all stock-based compensation in FY '04. For the fourth quarter, investment income should be roughly $900 million, a little higher than our prior guidance due primarily to higher realized gains in fixed income and emerging market portfolios.  

As a reminder, this forecast does not include any potential investment impairments or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments. With an effective tax rate of 33% and a projected outstanding share count of 10.86 billion shares for the fourth quarter, we arrived at fully diluted EPS guidance of 23 cents. For the full fiscal year, assuming an effective tax rate of approximately 35% and 10.89 billion shares outstanding, we arrive at fully diluted EPS guidance of 73 to 74 cents.  

So we had a fantastic quarter and it looks like we're going to have a great year. At this point I would like to talk about our preliminary view of fiscal 2005, as we're in the middle of finalizing our planning. Our current forecast for FY '05 has revenue of $37.8 to $38.2 billion, operating income of $15.9 to $16.3 billion, and fully diluted earnings per share of $1.16 to $1.18. The forecast includes approximately $2.5 billion of stock-based compensation.  

Now let me take a few minutes to outline some of the key items necessary to understand our FY '05 guidance. First upgrade advantage. In FY '04 we will recognize about $1.1 billion from upgrade advantage. We continued to assume that conversion rates from upgrade advantage to software assurance will be between 10 and 30%, and while we consider those conversion metrics quite good, it leaves us with tough comparables for the year, particularly in our Information Worker and Server and Tools businesses.  

Second, foreign exchange. Through the first nine months of fiscal 2004 we would have recognized approximately $830 million less in revenue if currency rates had stayed constant with those rates of fiscal year 2003. We are forecasting little to no foreign exchange benefit in FY '05.  

Third, PC and server unit forecasts. Given the high growth rates in PC and server units in the first three quarters of this year, the comparables are more difficult next year, even if IT spending continues to improve and we continue to execute as well or better than we did this year.  

Fourth, MSN and home and entertainment have executed very well over the course of fiscal 2004. Next year MSN will continue to see subscription access revenues from narrow band subscribers decline, and that will make overall revenue growth challenging for the business. Home and entertainment will also be challenged to grow revenue as recent pricing actions, normal in this stage of the lifecycle, lead to difficult year-over-year comps for the Xbox business.  

Finally, our operating income guidance implies that operating expenses, excluding stock-based compensation and our fiscal year '04 legal settlements and fine, are essentially flat year-over-year. This should result in roughly two points of operating margin improvement.  

We are proud of the efforts and very good progress we are making and have made as a company in terms of cost efficacy. These efforts will continue and contribute to value creation for all shareholders. So while FY '05 has tough revenue comparables, our absolute results should be quite good.  

Before I close, I would like to make a quick comment on the question of cash. We've worked hard to clear up a substantial amount of our legal exposure. AOL, Sun, InterTrust, and all but a handful of the state class-action suits. Brad Smith and the legal team have done a tremendous job. We will continue to focus on getting closure on our legal matters, but tremendous progress has been made. We are still on track to be able to share more details by the financial analyst meeting in July.  

In closing, I want to broadly frame the opportunity we see in front of us in terms of products and technologies, as well as our opportunity to increase shareholder value. Over the past three years, we have done a better job of growing absolute revenue, profits, and cash flow than any of our technology peers. We've also generated a portfolio of products that have delivered real value to customers. We've shipped Windows XP, Office 2003, Windows Server 2003, Exchange 2003, Small Business Server 2003, Visual Studio, CRM, Tablet PC, Media Center, MSN 9, Smartphone, Pocket PC, and Xbox.  

We've invested heavily and made very, very good progress on a number of ground-breaking technologies. Rights management, collaboration, business intelligence, management, search, security, speech, inking, to name just a few. Over the next several years we will deliver some fantastic products including SQL Server 2005, Longhorn Client, Longhorn Server, Visual Studio 2005, Office 12, our next-generation business solutions platform, next-generation Xbox console and a host of additional products.  

We believe that we clearly have the broadest portfolio of products and the best pipeline of technology of any company in the industry, bar none. We have made very good progress on our equity compensation profile by designing a program that is better for employees and shareholders. We have made and will continue to make progress on the cost efficacy front. Finally, we have a balance sheet that will allow us to provide significant value to shareholders.  

FY '04 has been a great year, and FY '05 can be as well. As we look out over the next several years, we see a very, very bright future for the Company and its shareholders. We have the opportunity to deliver incredible innovation to both business and consumer customers and show very meaningful revenue growth. We'll also continue to be very focused on relentlessly driving cost efficacy and executing on a multi-year plan to reach profitability in all of our emerging businesses. If we do all of these things, which we are confident we can do, we'll likely see revenue and operating income growth improve in FY '06 and beyond.  

With that, let me turn it back to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, John. We'd like to now proceed to the question section of our call. We'd like to accommodate as many of your questions as possible so please limit yourself to just one question. Operator, could you please repeat the instructions.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time if you would like to ask a question, please press star one on your touch-tone phone, you will be announced by name prior to asking your question. To withdraw your question, you may press star two. Once again, if you do wish to ask a question, please press star one on your touch-tone phone. Your first question comes from Drew Brosseau with SG Cowen.  

DREW BROSSEAU, SG COWEN SECURITIES: Hi, John. Nice job on the quarter. In fact, I'm pleased to hear you make the first ever CFO comment from Microsoft about two years out, so that's encouraging. But my question was about your '05 guidance. I'm looking back a year ago and noticing that your guidance for '04 then turned out to be about 10% low on revenue and 15% low on earnings, so you think you're being similarly conservative now or less so about '05?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Drew. We're just giving you the view we have today. I think the big difference from a year ago would be the big improvement in both PC hardware and server hardware relative to our expectations, and then secondly, foreign exchange. We didn't have expectations for the kind of move in the euro and yen and other non-U.S. currencies that we actually experienced. We think it's a realistic view, I hope a year from now when we're having this call you ask the same question, but I wouldn't put it in your model.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Okay, thanks. I appreciate it.  

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Gibboney Huske with Credit Suisse First Boston.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you. Just could you talk a little bit in terms of cost containment program for next year and just how that's being executed among the different business groups. Presumably there's some businesses where you think there's bigger opportunity and they have more short term R&D requirements. How are you kind of working that through the different business units? And is there going to be some areas where you're going to have to invest or you're going to have to cut back in other areas?  

JOHN CONNORS: The first thing, to frame it appropriately, we view it not as a cost-cutting exercise but as an efficacy program. We are still continuing to hire, we're giving people raises, we're investing very heavily as a company generally. We have a 13-point program where we really look at how do we get more impact for dollars spent? And how do we get improvements in our end-to-end business processes such that we get more output at lower cost? There's obvious things we're doing. For example, we acquired PlaceWare, it's now Office Live Meeting, about 20% of what would have been trips people took in the past are now office live meeting sessions saving us tens of millions of dollars.  

We've done great work on a global advertising program. We've done great work on a cross company direct marketing and customer relationship management strategy, terrific work on vendor negotiation, a lot of work on various R&D efficacy programs that some of which have to do with localization, some of which to have do with tools. We've done very good work in terms of our support, operations, and supply chain groups. So it's really pretty broad-based, and the idea to get more for each dollar spent and get our end-to-end business processes improved and we've made good progress there.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Just one follow-up question, in terms of, looks like your bookings are pretty good in annuities. How are you talking to your customers about some of the product push-outs you've had, obviously there's still some uncertainty in terms of the timing of Longhorn, depending on the timing of their contract, obviously that has an influence on their decisions. How are you talking to customers who are, one, renewing, or secondly, are looking to sign up for one of the programs as a new customer  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, I think each customer has a unique circumstance depending on what products they've covered and when. Most importantly we've got a great product lineup and an overwhelming majority of customers are not on our newest products and we have a great product portfolio coming. If you think about the growth we've seen in Windows Server 2003, new license sales this quarter were up 31%, Small Business Server units are up dramatically over a year ago, Exchange, SQL, we've seen good results.  

We have factored in, Gibboney, those customers who we would not anticipate would renew or perhaps buy new licenses based on their existing agreements or expired agreements, but we basically see the same type of EA renewal rates that we've seen in the past. And secondly, we haven't changed our assumptions of those customers that signed up for upgrade advantage how many will go to software assurance. I think the key thing is, we've got to get a great value message out and we think with the products we have and the road map we've got we've got a pretty compelling value proposition.  

GIBBONEY HUSKE: Great. Thanks very much. Nice quarter.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Heather Bellini with UBS.  

HEATHER BELLINI, UBS WARBURG: Hi, thank you. John, I was wondering if you could touch a little bit on the OEM trends that you guys have been seeing in the server segment. Seems like the past few quarters there's been upside surprises in terms of the OEM contribution. And secondly, I just was wondering if you could touch on if you're seeing Oracle anymore in the database market with new SMV offering. Thank you.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks. We really have been pleasantly surprised with server demand generally and our OEM results specifically. For the third quarter, going into the quarter we thought total server unit shipments would be up kind of 12%. We think they're now up 17%. We think in the next quarter they'll be up about 13% versus January expectation of 9%. And we are seeing good results with a broad range of products, whether it's Windows Server 2003, whether it's Office attached with OEM is quite strong.  

Another real pleasant surprise for us is just the really superb product we have for small and mid-size companies called Small Business Server 2003. It has won a lot of awards and deserved it and the demand is quite good, so we've got great products to attach to a market where units are growing. We're very mindful of Oracle's move in the OEM space, particularly for small businesses and we'll work hard to compete aggressively and I think customers will benefit from what we do and what they do and we're looking forward to doing that over the next few quarters.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Charles Di Bona with Sanford Bernstein.  

CHARLES DI BONA, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: John, I was wondering if we could maybe dig into the one sector that sort of stands out for its relatively slow performance here in Business Solutions. What are you seeing in particular around, I guess Great Plains in the U.S. that is making it lag the rest of your business? Is it product related? Is it some of the sales force reorganization or is it just a weak application spending environment?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Charlie. MBS probably had on a relative basis the weakest results of any of the seven businesses. It did come in where we expected, which I think is important, so the group has a very good handle on where things are. Our non-U.S. results are terrific. We're outgrowing the competition significantly. And our U.S. results are really kind of in line with what software sales are in the U.S. for business apps.  

We aren't having very good U.S. execution and I think the majority of it is a function of us having a lot of new people in district positions over the course of the year, and we're being less effective with the traditional MBS partners than the MBS group was a year ago. The group has a very clear mission in terms of getting that U.S. execution improved. I don't think we'll see that in Q4 but we're hopefully see it in FY '05.  

It isn't really a product issue, I think it's more of our execution issue and we're just not doing a lot better than competition the way we expected. We're kind of doing what the competition is doing.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. John, first you said on the cash you'd say more by the July analyst meeting. I just wasn't clear if that means you're going to tell us what you're going to do with the cash or if that was just sort of, we're going to tell you something more about that? Wasn't real clear.  

Also to follow up on Drew's question on the 4% revenue growth guidance you gave for '05. If it turns out that EMEA and Japan is getting better as the U.S. has this year, would we expect that to translate into additional margin expansion or would we see you spending more money?  

JOHN CONNORS: Good questions on both fronts, Rick. On the cash, it was sort of a round about way of saying I'm not going to say anything today. We do feel good about the legal issues we've cleared, which were significant, and we do feel like we have a clearer view of what our business model impacts could have been or could be. We've got a hearing from the Court of Appeals related to Massachusetts coming up anytime. And we're anxious for that. We've got a court of first instance. We're really hearing folks in terms of wanting more direction with respect to our cash strategy. We will have a lot more to say no later than the analyst meeting.  

In terms of kind of the P&L earnout if you will, if businesses do better on the revenue front than we have guided or we expect, we would expect to see some of that drop to the bottom line, but we would also expect to see people in businesses have ideas for opportunities to drive more revenue or to drive customer sat. So basically in the earnout process, folks will drop that to the bottom line or they'll have specific programs, but you shouldn't expect all revenue increases to go to expense increase.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Mary Meeker with Morgan Stanley.  

MARY MEEKER, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. John, you talked earlier several times on the call about the cost efficacy efforts, if you look at the guidance for fiscal '05 it looks like the, as you pointed out, operating margin expansion should play out. Could you talk about the buy-in process within the organization? At different levels regarding the focus on the cost control and the operating margin expansion? And then a second question relates to where are we, if you know off the top of your head, in the Windows upgrade cycle, i.e. how many of the PCs in the installed base have the newest versions of Windows? Thanks.  

JOHN CONNORS: On the first question, Mary, in terms of the endorsement or the agreement or buy-in on cost efficacy, I think generally people here, they're shareholders and/or they're option holders and they're interested in value creation just like the people on the phone, and so they understand that. There's, I think, good strong leadership in our business groups and our management team. I think people as they see the efforts on cost translate into value creation, the picture becomes clearer.  

I think in any organization, including this one, it's kind of like a budget anyplace, I'm all for overall lower spending as long as it isn't my group. And so, we clearly have that. But I think in general, the Company has a good ability to get people rallied behind the things it needs to do, and I don't think we'll have any exception here. We do think, too, there's good opportunity long-term to improve our business processes, improve our efficacy, and as part of growing value for shareholders it's something we'll have to do.  

In terms of where we are in the Windows upgrade, we still have enormous opportunity both on the server side of getting NT4 and even predecessor versions of servers and Windows 2000 moved to 2003. And really the most meaningful units that have Windows XP in the PC environment are those units that started shipping when we released the product. We did a terrific job of getting aligned with our OEM partners to get Windows XP on machines at launch. We probably did the best job in the history of the Company with a release of an OS, but if you look at the installed base of PCs there's a significant number that aren't running Windows XP. So the opportunity is still good and exists, but our absolute number that we have to grow is also a big number.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Keith Gay with Thomas Weisel Partners.  

KEITH GAY, THOMAS WEISEL PARTNERS: Hi. A couple of home entertainment questions. How does the Xbox price cut impact gross margins in the June time frame, particularly if it more successful than perhaps you planned? And then second part of this is, does this indicate a shift in your strategy to be out in front of Sony this time you're first with price cut and perhaps with Xbox 2, is there a shift in strategy to be out front perhaps to take additional share?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Keith. On the first front, in terms of where we are in the product lifecycle, our cost of goods is better than it was early in the lifecycle, so the P&L can absorb price cuts more easily than it could previously. The June forecast for revenue and for operating income includes the expectation for what will happen, and we'll just see how the unit volumes play out.  

In terms of a price cut, the most important thing we want to do is be very competitive, gain share, and build a large installed base of customers, and we saw that opportunity to do that. The group has both the share objectives in mind as well as P&L objectives, and that's a balance they have to reach, and in this quarter they decided that it was a good time to gain some share.  

KEITH GAY: Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Tom Berquist with Smith Barney.  

TOM BERQUIST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. Two quick questions. First, you mentioned, John, something on the Windows on Intel gaining share versus Intel shipments. My question is, is that because you're planning on gaining share versus Linux over the next year or is that more related to the Yukon shipment? Secondly, does your forecast for '05 include any revenue for this rumored -- or speculated XP reloaded product that we've heard about in the press?  

JOHN CONNORS: In terms of our growth on the Windows front versus Linux, only Linux and Windows are gaining share, and both of us are growing faster than the market, obviously. We had faster growth in Windows Server shipments in the third quarter than hardware units, due in large part to software-only sales. We also, obviously, sell more absolute units in the quarter in terms of growth than Linux, so we're the two guys that are growing.  

In terms of the XP, SP2, or what you might have heard of reload, we've got an incredible opportunity to really get consumers to understand the value behind Windows XP both from an improved security perspective, as well as a digital media and entertainment perspective. Both that Tablet, Media Center, we've got a lot of value to sell. And you'll see us be very aggressive on the XP front in fiscal year '05 and what we plan to do is reflected in these numbers.  

TOM BERQUIST: Okay. Thank you. As part of an adjunct to that first one, the Yukon, is that factored into your growth expectations on the server business next year as well, the Yukon shipment I mean?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, obviously we take our product road map and then we look at what impact will that have on revenue for the fiscal year, and given where we think SQL 2005 is going to come out in half one of calendar year '05, you can do the math and it will probably be late in that time period. We won't get the benefit from it that we will in fiscal year '06, but it looks like it's going to be a great product. We're fortunate to have a great product in the market now between that and its release.  

TOM BERQUIST: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Brier Dudley with the Seattle Times.  

BRIER DUDLEY, SEATTLE TIMES: Hi, John. You said that you were going to continue hiring, but you're also going to hold operating expenses flat. Does that mean headcount will also remain flat? And could you also shed light on construction spending plans in the Seattle area?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks, Brier. We don't have anything to announce today on our headcount plans for fiscal year '05. We'll talk about that more in the analyst time frame. We have a lot of open positions. We're still hiring. What we've tried to do is give business groups targets for their P&L's and for their expenses and they make the trade-offs in terms of headcount and other types of costs. We are on track, though, to continue to grow consistent with the goals we set for heads in the prior year.  

Secondly, we still have a number Puget Sound area projects underway with respect to construction and this is our home and we'll continue to grow here.  

BRIER DUDLEY: Are you going to defer Issaquah?  

JOHN CONNORS: I don't have any comment on Issaquah. We'll start building out Issaquah when and if we need the space.  

BRIER DUDLEY: Thank you.  

JOHN CONNORS: You bet.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Your next question comes from Adam Holt with J.P. Morgan.  

ADAM HOLT, J.P. MORGAN: Good afternoon. It sounds like some of the strength in IW was driven by better performance in the mid-market, is that driven by the trend you spoke about last quarter of the small and mid-size businesses opting more towards up-front licenses than subscriptions. And what can we extrapolate from some of the current S&P initiatives about your ability to convert that base within the UA renewals going forward?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks for the question. Yeah, we did see good strength with our IW business and office specifically in the small and mid-market space. And very good results with license-only sales. Our enterprise sales were good and about where we thought, maybe a little better, but our license-only billings in the select L and open L license-only were strong year-over-year.  

I think our SMS&P group is executing well. We'll expect good execution in Q4. We're also seeing good success with Office in terms of OEM attach, and Japan has grown nicely as the PC market and business spending recovers there. In terms of our SMS&P efforts, they are critical to the UA to SA conversion. If we do a great job we'll see those conversion rates at the higher end of what we had hoped, and we'll just have an important six-month period as those upgrade advantage contracts expire.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator we'll take just one more question now, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. And our final question comes from Jason Maynard with Merrill Lynch.  

JASON MAYNARD, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, guys. On the server business unit, you talked about being sort of 2X ahead at this point in the product release cycle, would you characterize that gain or that ramp being attributable to the upgrade cycle of say NT being ahead of plan, or is it share gain versus UNIX? And then one quick one on the FY '05 revenue guidance. Is there any sort of implied ballpark delivery time frame on Longhorn on that number and then the conversion rate of the UA customers?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks a lot, Jason. In terms of server 2003, I think it's a combination of things. Clearly, it is share gain and it's also a function of the economy. And spending being better than it was from the launch. And finally, upgrades from what is a large install base of NT4. So I think it's a combination of those things and we're fortunate to have a superb product. Could you repeat the last part of your question? I think I didn't get that noted.  

JASON MAYNARD: Yeah. If we look at the fiscal '05 revenue growth rate and you've talked about sort of consistent, I think conversion rates for UA to SA's, I'm wondering what sort of influence you're thinking about that will have from sort of a rough ballpark delivery time frame for Longhorn.  

JOHN CONNORS: The rates that we've provided for UA to SA conversion are the rates we see in light of the product schedule that we have in front of us, and we don't see the Longhorn time frame having an impact on those conversion rates.  

JASON MAYNARD: Okay. Thank you.  

JOHN CONNORS: Great. Thanks very much.  

CURT ANDERSON: Well, thanks everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to contact me or the IR team directly. As I mentioned at the top of this call, this call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through close of business April 22nd, 2005. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing 1-800-947-6621 and use the passcode 4189. For international calls dial 402-220-4613, and the passcode for that number is 4189. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business April 30th, 2004. Thanks again for joining us today.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. This does conclude today's conference call. We thank you for your participation.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040506e04m002e7
  


 HD
 Q2  2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
11,432 words
   PD
22 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the fiscal 2004 second quarter earnings conference. All participants will be in a listen only until the question-and-answer session of the conference. This call is being recorded. If you do have any objections you may disconnect from the call at this time. I would now like to turn the call over to Curt Anderson, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin.  

   TD
CURT ANDERSON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT: Good afternoon everybody. Thank you for joining us today. This afternoon I'm joined by John Connors, Chief Financial Officer, Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller, and John Seedove, Deputy General Counsel. We'll be following our normal format today with Scott providing some color around our second quarter results, and John reviewing our guidance for the third quarter and the full fiscal year. After that we'll take your questions. A few housekeeping items and then we can move on to the details. As many of you are aware our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. I would encourage you to review that document for more specific information related to products, sales channel, income statement, and balance sheet. Scott's comments will largely follow the same outline and the addendum. We've posted our earnings release and addendum on our Investor Relations website at  www.microsoft.com, forward slash MSFT. Subsequent to the call we'll post a quarterly financial summary slide deck that contains highlights from the quarter and also contains highlights from the call in Q and A.  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website, again, microsoft.com slash MSFT. The replay of the call will be available at this same site through the close of business on October 31, 2003. This conference call report is protected by the copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use of transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2004 Form 10-Q and our 2003 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally we do not take -- undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statement. With that let me begin briefly by calling out the key results of the quarter.  

For the quarter ended December 31, 2003 net revenue was $10.15 billion, a 19% increase over revenue of $8.54 billion for the same period in the prior year. Operating income came in at $1.48 billion, this is compared to operating income of $2.2 billion reported in the prior year period. Operating income did include $2.21 billion in stock-based compensation related to the completion of the employee stock option transfer program. Diluted earnings per share for the December 2003 quarter were 14 cents including equity compensation expense of approximately 20 cents per share. The prior year's diluted earnings per share were 17 cents which included equity compensation expense of approximately 7 cents per share, a charge for investment impairments of 3 cents per share, a 1 cent per share tax benefit from the reversal of previously accrued taxes and a 1 cent per share legal charge related to antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits. With that let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, V.P., CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Curt, and good afternoon everyone. As Curt mentioned our press release includes an addendum which gives a more comprehensive overview of our finance results for the quarter. I would encourage you to review that information. I would, however, like to use this time to highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mention will be to the comparable quarter of last year. From a revenue perspective we had a record quarter with net revenue up 19% to $10.15 billion dollars, which exceeded our previous expectations driven primarily by strong sales in Information Worker with the launch of Office 2003 and better than expected OEM sales of Windows XP. Reported revenue also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. Had the rates been constant with the prior year revenue would have been approximately $312 million lower. Although the dollar continued to weaken rates were generally in line with guidance we gave you in October. In terms of key business drivers both PC and server units sold were higher than expected with 12% PC unit growth and 13% server unit growth.  

During the quarter we completed our employee stock option transfer program. Eligible employees elected transfer 344.6 million options to JP Morgan equating to about 55% of the total eligible options. J.P. Morgan paid Microsoft $382 million in cash, $219 of which we have paid to participating employees. The balance of the cash we have paid out over two to three year service period. We recorded $2.21 billion, $1.48 billion after tax, or 14 cents per share in stock-based compensation this quarter related to the completion of the employee stock option transfer program. This expense consists of the charge related to unvested options that were submitted for transfer and then were 100% vested. Our total stock-based compensation expense for the quarter was $3.23 billion, $2.17 billion after tax, or 20 cents per share. Operating expenses came in at $8.68 billion, including the $2.21 billion of stock-based equity compensation expense related to the option transfer program.  

G&A cost came in higher than expected primarily due to the increased legal fees and settlement costs. The G&A increase was partially offset by lower than expected sales and marketing costs due to the timing of planned spend. These results combined with our higher than expected revenue resulted in operating income of $1.48 billion. Investment income totaled $842 million. Net income for the quarter was $1.55 billion, with diluted earnings per share of 14 cents, including 20 cents in stock-based compensation expense. Recognition of revenue related to annuity license agreements during the quarter accounted for approximately 22% of total revenue consistent with the 22% in the prior year. This percentage is typically lower in December and the December quarter given the seasonal strength of our consumer businesses.  

Now, let me take a minute to provide some color around PC demand. We estimate total PC unit shipments worldwide grew 12% during the quarter. The U.S., EMEA and the Asian Pacific region excluding Japan all showed low to mid double-digit growth. Japan and Latin America grew in the low to mid single digits. Before I discuss our business segments in a little more detail I wanted to outline the approximate billing mix for our core businesses we have seen the last five quarters. Hopefully this information will allow you to better understand the relative importance of how customers purchase our products for each of these businesses. For the client business we typically bill approximately 75% through OEM channel, 15% through annuity licenses like enterprise agreements, and 10% through license-only sales. For the server and tools business, approximately 50% through license-only sales, 40% are through annuity contracts, and the remaining 10% is through the OEM channel. For the Information Worker businesses, we typically bill approximately 40% through annuity contracts, 40% through license-only sales, primarily to businesses, and the remaining 20% through the OEM channel.  

Now, let's get to the business unit results. The client business grew 21% to $3.06 billion, driven by stronger than expected PC shipments. I should remind you that the prior year revenue was adversely impacted by the change in our OEM billing process resulting in the prior year first quarter revenue pull-forward of $100 to $200 million related to the inventory accumulation of some OEMs. Normalized revenue growth is consistent with underlying PC demand. Mix of professional versions of Windows was even with the prior year at 55% as both quarters experienced seasonally strong consumer PC shipments. Revenue from server and tools grew 21% to $2.13 billion. Additionally Exchange Server 2003 and Small Business Server 2003 both launched successfully during the quarter. Windows Server, Microsoft's SQL Server, Microsoft Exchange Server, and Server CALs, all showed double digit revenue growth, driven by a growing number of customers purchasing higher priced enterprise additions, the adoption of Windows 2003 and Exchange 2003 Servers as well as strong overall license growth. Exchange has now sold 124 million seats and continues to be the leading messaging solution for companies. Additionally, our consulting and premier product support businesses grew 29% during the quarter.  

Finally, as in previous quarters we saw strong growth in server OEM sales as unit growth and Intel-based servers continues to outpace growth in the overall sector. In the December quarter we estimate total server hardware shipments grew 13% with Windows Server shipments growing faster than the overall sector at 19%. Information Worker revenue was up 27% this quarter to $2.90 billion, primarily due to growth in full package product related to Office 2003 launch, strong OEM sales, and the earn-back of previously deferred revenue. Retail package product revenue grew 36%, driven by the launch of Office 2003. Additionally, revenue recorded in the quarter included $137 million for rights to Office 2003 that provided customers who purchased Office prior to the availability of the new Office 2003 product.  

Revenue from business solutions was $190 million this quarter up 41% year-over-year primarily due to continued growth in licensing of Navision products. MSN had another strong quarter with better than expected revenue growth of 19%. The growth in the quarter was due to MSN's advertising business which had a record revenue of $292 million, resulting in 47% growth year-over-year. Our advertising strength is being driven by both traditional, on-line, and search-based advertising. On the subscription side of the business decreased about 2% year-over-year as business continued to see declines in it's narrow band base. The subscription number ended up flat from the prior year quarter at 8 million as the loss of narrow band subscribers was offset by the gain of other premium service subscription. This month MSN also launched MSN Premium, its newest Internet subscription--software subscription. MSN Premium is our most comprehensive Internet service ever offered with advance communication capabilities, security and protection technology, and rich information services and productivity applications.  

Turning to home and entertainment, home and entertainment revenue decreased 5% to $1.27 billion, due primarily to lower PC games revenue with the release of several strong titles in the prior year. This decrease is partially offset by growth in the Xbox business primarily due to strong Xbox game volumes. In the U.S., December NPD data shows that Xbox continues to maintain its number two position in consoles and has increased the life to date software attach rate to 6.4. Through the December quarter we had sold 13.7 million consoles worldwide since launch, 8.6 million consoles in North America, 3.7 million consoles in Europe, and 1.4 million consoles in Japan and Asia Pacific region. Additionally, with over 400 games available, including 70 live-enabled games our expectation to have life to date sales of 14.5 to 16 million Xbox consoles by the end of our fiscal year remains unchanged. Xbox Live also continues to do well with nearly 750,000 subscribers. Turning the quarter, we brought our first two Windows mobile-based Smartphones to the U.S.market as AT&T Wireless announced the availability of the Motorola MPX 200 and Verizon announced the Samsung I 600. The launch of these products combined with strong results from our Windows Mobile, MapPoint and Windows Embedded products drove revenue from our Mobile Embedded devices business to $63 million an increase of 66%. These results also include a full quarter of revenue from Vicinity, which we acquired in the prior year December quarter.  

Now. let me talk about the rest of the income statement. As I mentioned earlier total operating expense were $8.68 billion. Cost of revenues increased to $2.3 billion, but decreased 1.9 percentage points to 23.1% of sales. The increase in dollars is primarily due to the stock-based compensation expense related to the option transfer program. While the improvement as a percentage of revenue is driven by a combination of lower cost to produce the Xbox console and earlier channel sell-in of the Xbox holiday offering in the September quarter versus a year ago. The balance of operating expenses increased $2.16 billion primarily due to stock and compensation expense related to the option transfer program. Compared to our original forecast G&A was higher than expected partially resulting from higher legal costs which includes fees and settlements. Sales and marketing was lower than we expected as some field marketing spend moved into subsequent quarters. Operating income was at $1.48 billion. Operating income saw stronger than expected revenue with total cost coming in about where we expected when compared to our original forecast. Investment income of $842 million increased significantly from the second quarter of 2003 due to improved market conditions resulting in higher gains on sales investments and a significant reduction in other than temporary impairments. Our effective tax rate remained at 33% for the quarter.  

Now, turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow from operations increased to $4.57 billion reflecting our strong quarter results and changes to working capital. On the balance sheet, total assets were $85.9 billion, and stock holders equity was $69.3 billion at the end of December. Cash and short-term investments totaled $52.8 billion, up nearly $1.2 billion from last quarter. Accounts Receivable increased sequentially $1.1 billion due to strong billings during the quarter. DSO was at 53 days compared to 55 days in the prior year December quarter. As we usually point out our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue in the average sales number so it's consistent with what's included in receivables. Equity and other investments increased $939 million sequentially primarily due to improved market conditions. Our current liabilities decreased $1.97 billion after paying out our annual 16 cent dividend on November 7th.  

I would like to wrap up with some discussion in detail around the unearned revenue. Unearned revenue was down sequentially $395 million to $7.85 billion. Annuity billing showed both sequential and year-over-year growth driven by primarily by enterprise agreements signed with large corporations. License-only billings were even stronger than we had anticipated partially driven by the Office 2003 launch. New multi-year annuity licensing continues to grow even though the reported unearned balance has declined. The amortization of revenue into the P&L for upgrade advantage contracts has made growing the unearned balance difficult and somewhat masks the acceptance of our annuity offerings in the marketplace over the past six quarters. The upgrade advantage contract amortization as disclosed in the addendum during the quarter was $296 million compared to $379 million in September 2003 and $480 million in the prior year December quarter. This amortization effect is slowing down as the majority of the upgrade advantage contracts come up for renewal over the next several quarters. We believe these customers historically have been license-only purchasers that purchased upgrade advantage during the licensing transition period that ended July 31, 2002, as it was the best price skew available for them at the time. As a result, we expect that most of these customers will remain license-only purchasers and the conversion rates from upgrade advantage and software assurance will be much lower than our historical enterprise agreement renewal rates.  

The changes to the other two portions of the unearned balance are more straightforward. The undelivered element portion of unearned revenue decreased by $76 million primarily due to an approximate $200 million decrease to the--related to the reduction in our product deferral rates for Windows and Office, partially offset by strength in license-only revenues. Going forward we expect the undelivered elements portion of unearned revenue to decrease as the lower deferral rate adds to the account at a slower rate than the current period recognition.  

Finally the other deferred revenue category decreased by $110 million primarily due to the recognition of $137 million in rights to Office 2003 that were provided to customers in the prior quarter. The unearned balance is down slightly more than we had anticipated as a result of some timing issues around deals that closed in early January versus late December. We feel good about where we ended the quarter as annuity billings were healthy as John will provide additional insight into later. Contracted unbilled revenue increased sequentially and remains over $6 billion as customers continue to buy or renew enterprise agreements consistent with the previous few quarters. And finally I'd like to point out our average diluted weighted shares outstanding were 10.90 billion, right about where we expected. We continue to actively manage share dilution through our various buy-back programs. In this quarter we spent approximately $830 million to repurchase 30.5 million shares. Now let me turn it back to Kurt and John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Scott. I'd now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and guidance.  

JOHN CONNORS, CFO, SR. V.P., MICROSOFT: Thanks Scott and Curt and good afternoon everyone. As always let me start with a few key points from the quarter's results. We are very pleased with our first $10 billion quarter. Our performance was driven by strong consumer and corporate PC demand which exceeded our expectations. The strength in consumer spending that we referenced last quarter continued into this quarter and we began to see improvement in the corporate IT market as well. The improving environment and the early adoption of many of our newly released products including Windows Server 2003 and Office 2003, resulted in particularly strong performance from our three largest businesses. Information Worker, Client, and Server and tools, which all grew over 20%. PC demand for the second quarter was much better than we had forecasted, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. We saw the most strength on the consumer side, but the corporate market outperformed as well. The server market did better than we had expected driven by the continued move to Intel-based hardware. MSN continued to host very strong growth driven by record advertising revenue and after a solid holiday, Xbox remains on track to achieve their year-end targets. Business solutions delivered 40% year-over-year revenue growth and our Mobile and Embedded devices business was up 66% from last year's second quarter. Overall billings for the quarter were much better than we anticipated with particular strength in our OEM and license-only business.  

This quarter Microsoft delivered. We solidly outperformed on revenues, expenses, and earnings per share and we feel good about where we ended the quarter on unearned. We also completed our employee stock option transfer program. For investors who take a long-term view, they will understand that we have taken a bold step to reduce the dilution of their ownership interest. Now, let me turn to the details of our forecast for the third quarter and the full fiscal year, beginning with our assumptions for the macroeconomic environment. We expect the strength in consumer spending to continue and our revised PC forecast reflects that. We did see improvement in the corporate IT spending environment over the course of the second quarter, and we expect that to continue in the second half of our fiscal year. While the IT spending sentiment is improving we still see a strong focus on cost containment in organizations around the world with a particular focus on IT cost. So our forecast assumes a modest improvement.  

For full fiscal year FY 04 we are raising our PC forecast from the guidance we gave you in October to low double digits. We are forecasting that the consumer segment will grow a couple of points faster than the business segment for the full year, although both estimates have been raised since October. For the third quarter, we are looking for roughly 10% growth. For the full fiscal year '04 we have raised the server hardware forecast a couple of points and expect it will grow just over 10%. As always, this represents a roll-up of both Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware. We expect to see Intel-based servers continue to outgrow proprietary UNIX and the Windows platform to grow faster than the overall market as well. For the third quarter, we are looking for low double digit growth.  

Now, to revenue and unless I specifically mention otherwise, all my comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year. Net revenue for fiscal year 2004 should be in the range of $35.6 to $35.9 billion, up 11 to 12%. This revenue is over $800 million higher than what we forecasted in October, reflecting the higher than expected PC demand that we saw in the second quarter, and the strong Office 2003 sales as well as some increase in the Server and tools, Information Worker, and MSN forecast for the remainder of the year. Net revenue for the March quarter should be in the range of $8.6 to $8.7 billion, up 9 to 10%.  

Now, let me break this guidance down by segments. Starting with client. Full fiscal year revenue should grow 9 to 10%, roughly equivalent to our prior forecast. For the third quarter we expect client revenue to increase approximately 10%. As a reminder, our revenues in the client segment should track more closely to our PC shipments than in 2003 as we no longer expect to see the same benefit from increases in the mix of Windows XP professional licenses sold that we experienced in fiscal year 2002 and fiscal year 2003. Server and tools revenue should continue to grow nicely and we have raised our full-year growth rate to approximately 16% from 12 to 14%. In the third quarter, revenue should grow between 13 and 15%. We have seen great adoption of Windows Server 2003 since the launch last April, and the early results from Exchange 2003 and Small Business Server 2003 are encouraging as well. With a higher hardware shipment forecast and improving IT spending environment, and a great product lineup that only gets better over the next 12 months we are excited about the momentum in the highly competitive enterprise business. Information Worker revenue should be up roughly 13% for the full year, about 3 points higher than our previous guidance and up 10 to 11% for the third quarter.  

Going forward, we will be focusing on driving broader adoption of the new powerful Office system. This business also benefits in the second half as we are now forecasting a slight sales mix shift to license-only sales versus annuity in the small and mid-market space, from what we planned at the outset of the year as well as what we forecasted in October. Revenue from business solutions should be just under $700 million for the full fiscal year, roughly in line with our October forecast. We expect revenue in the March quarter to be roughly $150 million. Last quarter, we mentioned that our results had been impacted by some of the changes we had made in the sales organization in this channel late in fiscal year '03. We believe that we are now past the most significant levels of disruption from those changes and we expect more external focus and improved execution as a result. We do expect our business solutions group will continue to grow at a much faster rate than the competition.  

MSN revenue for the full year should be better than we forecasted in October, and should end the year a little over $2 billion. Up approximately 5% from last year. The March quarter should grow 3 to 4%. While the narrow band subscriber base will continue to come down for the next few quarters, resulting in a decline in access subscription revenue, we remain very optimistic about the long-term opportunities for the MSN business. The on-line advertising market should continue to be strong with growth around 20 to 30% for the next several years. We will continue to invest in premium services and search to capture this growth while remaining focused on achieving sustained long-term profitability. Mobile and Embedded devices revenue for the full fiscal year should be roughly $220 million, and approximately $50 million for the third quarter. This represents growth of 40%. Very good results on an increasing base of business.  

Home and entertainment revenue for the full fiscal year should be roughly flat compared to last year. We expect March to be around $430 million. Consistent with the guidance we gave in July and after a solid holiday quarter, our expectation to have life-to-date sales of 14.5 to 16 million Xbox consoles by the end of our fiscal year remains unchanged. Xbox Live is also on plan for our target of 1 million subscribers by fiscal year end. We expect the unearned revenue balance to end the year pretty close to where we ended the December quarter, in the range of $7.8 billion. While the exact billings mix and timing is hard to predict, the March quarter should be down more than the December quarter, but the balance should increase by a similar amount in the June quarter. Our guidance for the second half of the year includes approximately $460 million of earn-back due to upgrade advantage and an approximate $300 million decrease due to lower product deferral rates.  

In the second half of the year, we are also forecasting a slight mix change given the recent strength of our license-only purchases. For a little context, as you think about our unearned guidance in FY '03, $1.8 billion of upgrade advantage was earn-back, and in FY '04, $1.1 billion of upgrade advantage revenue will be earned back. At the conclusion of FY '04 we will have recognized virtually all of our upgrade advantage revenue. I think you should take this into account as you evaluate our unearned balance forecast range for the end of the year.  

Now for the rest of the P&L. All of our guidance on cost of goods sold and operating expenses includes stock-based compensation. Total stock-based compensation expense for the third quarter should be approximately $750 million and for the full year approximately $5.7 billion. Our estimate of full-year stock-based compensation expense is higher than our previous guidance due to the completion of the stock option transfer program which resulted in $2.21 billion of incremental expense this quarter. Our guidance for the second half of the year has come down approximately $500 million or $250 million per quarter, due principally to adjustments related to that incremental $2.21 billion recognized this quarter. Cost of revenues should be between 18 and 19% of net revenue for the full year and between 15 and 16% of net revenue for the March quarter, down sequentially from the holiday quarter in December. Research and development expenses are likely to be between 22 and 23% of net revenue for the full year. In the third quarter R&D should be a little under 20% of net revenue. Sales and marketing expenses should come in around 23% of net revenue for the full year, roughly in line with our previous guidance, and should be between 22 and 23% for the March quarter.  

Finally, general and administrative expenses should be just under 7% of net revenue for the full year which reflects the increased expense from this quarter and our expectation of higher legal costs in the second half of the year. It should be just under 6% for the third quarter. So in total operating expenses should be just over 52% of net revenue for the full year. The increase is primarily related to the increased FAS 123 expense from the second quarter. For the March quarter operating expenses should be 48 to 49% of net revenue. Some of the incremental spend in the second half of the year will be related to the security initiatives we have previously discussed. We've had positive feedback from customers about many of the changes we've made and are planning to make, but this is a continuous process and we have a lot of work to do. This incremental security spend includes activities such as the broad release of SP2 for Windows XP, investment in partner education programs, and the delivery of prescriptive design guidance on security to our customers and partners worldwide. This drives an operating income range of $10.3 to $10.6 billion for the full fiscal year including the stock-based compensation expense and $3.0 to $3.1 billion for the third quarter operating income number. For the full year, investment income should be roughly $3.1 billion, and $725 million for the third quarter. The guidance for the full year and the third quarter is higher due primarily to improving market conditions. As a reminder, this forecast does not include any potential investment impairments or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments. With an effective tax rate of 33% and a projected outstanding share count of roughly 10.9 billion shares for both the full year and the quarter, we arrive at fully diluted earnings per share guidance of 82 to 83 cents for the full fiscal year and a fully diluted earnings per share of 23 to 24 cents for the March quarter.  

With the numbers and details out of the way, let me take a few minutes to put this forecast in context. We are encouraged by the improvements in economic performance and forecast that should sustain improvements in the IT spending environment. Our forecast assumes modest improvements. If the pace of the recovery were to slow or increase, our results would be impacted. Linux and other noncommercial software products continue to be a threat to commercial software companies. We benefited from the weakening dollar on a year-over-year basis and a strengthening dollar would reduce the benefit going forward. We assume the dollar to euro and yen exchange rates stays in the range we have seen over the last month.  

Fiscal year '05 comparables for revenue and profit will be challenging. In FY '05 we lose the recognized revenue benefit from upgrade advantage that we discussed previously. You should keep in mind we had that similar challenge in '04. We are just beginning the planning process for setting FY '04 targets--FY '05 targets, and I would not apply our growth rates this year in a linear way to next. We have done a better job of growing revenues over the past four years than most technology companies but we need to execute well in FY '05 to grow from our base FY '04 revenue forecast. Cost efficacy will get intense focus in our planning efforts this year. Litigation remains a general risk in the intellectual property business and a specific risk for a leader like Microsoft.  

Finally, as always, continuing to be successful requires great execution on a lot of fronts. In closing, we want to reiterate how pleased we were with this quarter's record results. I joined Microsoft 15 years ago tomorrow when we had about $600 million in annual revenue. Now we do about $100 million on average a day. The IT environment is showing signs of improvement. We have seen customers begin to think about starting new projects. Our sales organization improved its execution from the first quarter. We also believe that we are beginning to reap the benefits of the broad R&D and sales and marketing investments we have made over the past few years. A number of our products are growing faster and gaining more traction than we expected, namely Office 2003, Windows Server 2003, and Small Business Server 2003. We had a great quarter, and with good execution, we should have a good second half. I look forward to seeing many of you next week when I travel to Boston and New York and invite you to join the webcast of my presentations on Tuesday and Wednesday, the details of which can be found on our Investor Relations website. With last -- let me turn it back to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, John. Let's now proceed to questions. We'd like to accommodate as many of your questions as possible, so please limit yourself to just one question. Operator would you please repeat the instructions.  

OPERATOR: Yes. At this time we are ready to begin the question-and-answer session. If you do wish to ask a question you may press star 1 on your touch-tone phone. Again that is star 1.  

CURT ANDERSON: Rich, we'd like to move to questions, please.  

OPERATOR: Hello. Can you hear me, sir? First question comes from Charlie Di Bona from Sanford Bernstein.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator we'd like to move to questions, please.  

CHARLES DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Curt, can you hear me? Hello? Curt? I'm not sure, Curt, can you hear me?  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator? Operator we'd like to move to questions, please. We're having some technical difficulties with questions. We can't hear your questions, so just stand by for a few moments while we get this worked out. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: At this time if you do wish to ask a question please press star 1 on your touch-tone phone. Again that is star 1 on your touch-tone phone. Again, if you do wish to ask a question, please press star 1. The first question comes from Charlie Di Bona from Sanford Bernstein. Sir, your line is open.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Can you hear me now? I'm not sure they can hear us, operator.  

OPERATOR: One moment, please. It will be just a moment. Please continue to hold.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator? Operator, we cannot hear any questions coming through. If you could please stand by and hold your -- .  

OPERATOR: First question comes from Charlie Di Bona from Sanford Bernstein. Your line is open, sir.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Curt, can you hear us this time?  

CURT ANDERSON: Yeah, we can. Thanks, Charlie.  

CHARLES DI BONA: First, one housekeeping question. What happened with the unbilled, unearneds this quarter?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah. Thanks, Charlie. This is John Connors. Want to apologize to people on the call for the technical difficulty, in holding you up. The contracted but unbilled was up slightly from September and is still north of $6 billion, Charlie.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Okay. It looks like your bookings are passing through here, as you stated a couple times, to the income statement and not going to your -- to the balance sheet through the unearned account. Can you give us a little color here on what is happening with the business model there, where the problem with subscriptions were? It seems that, you know, a number of the issues you pointed out, like the burn-off of UAs were knowable in advance, so what is it that's been surprising to you, and is the issue here with renewal rates? Is it with new bookings? Just give us a little more context for what's happening with your unearned balances.  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Charlie. The unearned was largely, you know, in line and in the range we'd expected. I think there would be a couple of things. Our EA business is just about where we thought. There could be a few contracts that we would have thought we would have had in Q2 that will be Q3 or have to. Secondly, our license-only business was stronger than we expected generally, and given the product deferral rates we have on that, we don't have as much going to the balance sheet as we expected. Generally, we're pleased with how the quarter went. We're pleased with where the annuity business was at. We do expect in the second half that we'll see a bit stronger license-only sale in the mid-market and small market versus annuity than we had expected at the start of the year and that we thought in October, but generally we're largely in line with what we thought. Our EA renewal rates continue to be consistent with the past. I think the big item we're really looking at over the course of the next three-quarters is we have a lot of the UA contracts expire, and we'll start to get a lot better visibility into what the behavior is of those customers that were traditionally license-only customers and what will their purchasing patterns be. But in general we're just about where we thought we would be.  

CHARLES DI BONA: So the strength in--I mean what are the customers saying about why they're taking licenses instead of subscriptions here?  

JOHN CONNORS: Those customers that have been annuity are renewing under the EA. We're also continuing to sign a good number of new EAs, especially in the mid-market. You know, there's a large pool of customers that have never been annuity that will continue to buy license. They're buying those both for select L only and open L only, and we also saw very strong business in the small business space with our commercial OEM sales of both server and IW products. So we expect -- you know, if you look at our expectation that the unearned for the fiscal year end is about where we are today, and you factor into that that we'll have, you know, about $460 million of upgrade advantage earned back in the second half we have about $300 million of product deferral earn-back, we feel pretty good that we'll put on the balance sheet, you know, close to $700 million of new contracts.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Just one last thing. As those UAs start to burn off do you have any feel yet for how those customers are reacting to sort of signing up for SA?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know it's probably--It's too early to tell, I would say, you know, I think the SA program we've gotten a lot of feedback on. I think our sales force is more prepared to sell it, but it's probably too early to tell. We clearly have much more conservative assumptions for the percentage of customers that will move from UA to SA than we have for EA renewal rates. So I think that's appropriate. We do have a lot broader product offering to go to those customers with than we had previously. And we're also pragmatic that if customers want to buy license only, we have the programs to sell them license only.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Okay. Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Charlie. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Rick Sherlund with Goldman Sachs.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. Thanks. Just following up on Charlie's as well, at the end of July, let's say, your upgrade advantage revenues, the sort of burn-off of that, is gone. The bad news is that hurts the P&L, but I think we've captured most of that in our models already. The good news is it starts to help deferred because, you know, you're not having that burn-off of say 300 million or so dollars a quarter, so what is your expectation of how much deferreds might be declining after you get through the September quarter, let's say to the December quarter?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, you know, it's too early to tell, Rick. We do think that once we get to 6/30 and move in to fiscal year '05 the behavior in our unearned balance will be more consistent with the pre-license 6.0 period, fiscal year '00, fiscal year '01. We do expect also that we continue to have growth in the enterprise agreement space, both recurring contracts growing in absolute size because we add more product as people renew, we do expect that we'll sell new EA contracts into the mid-market at good volume, and we do expect that the SA attach to select and open will be good percentage growth albeit from a small base. We're actually in the process of doing the early parts of our multiyear planning now. We'll get into more detail in that over the February-March time frame, and by April we should have an idea of what we think FY '05 looks like but we probably won't really have a good feel for FY '05 unearned until we get through the June quarter.  

RICK SHERLUND: All right. As you get closer to Longhorn shipping I would presume you get into the gravitational pull of that product more people are going to want to start renewing software assurance contracts and EAs, so it would seem that as we model '05 that we might start to see a turnaround in that number, depending on the timing of Longhorn related products.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah the--You know, I think, the key thing from our view is, and we've got to be real clear with you, as we see what happens with that UA base. You know, the unearned should grow for annuity, and our license only business should grow. The real question for us is what percentage of those historical license-only customers will move to annuity and what percentage of the UA customers will renew and when will they renew. We do think we've got a great product road map as we get the Longhorn Beta 1 out this summer, people start to see it, get excited. We also think as people see and work more with the Office complete system of products, there's a lot of value there. We've got a good product lineup for our, you know, kind of calendar '04, fiscal '05, including UConn and Wimpy, and the new Biz-top server products, so we've got some good products coming up in the next 12 to 18 months and we do have the Longhorn wave, so I think you've framed it the right way.  

RICK SHERLUND: And just lastly, quickly, for next year, you brought this issue up, as we model next year, the licensing business will contribute less because the UA business is largely gone. And I think we've captured most of that already. On the other hand, the core business, if PC demand continues to look pretty good, which is the majority of the business, should still do pretty well. I wouldn't expect to see that growth rate fall off a cliff next year.  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, you know, it will be a function of what do we think the -- that license business for IW does, what does the PC market look like, what kind of growth do we think we can get in Server and tools, and then in terms of the emerging businesses what kind of growth will we get there. We are not expecting, and we wouldn't forecast, the kind of revenue percentage growth that we've had this year, but we'll have more insight into that in the April time frame.  

RICK SHERLUND: Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Next question, please, operator.  

OPERATOR: Next question comes fromTom Berkowitz with Salomon Smith Barney, your line is open, sir.  

TOM BERKOWITZ, ANALYST, SALOMON SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. Not to keep harping on the same topic, but there was a part of the discussion, John, last quarter, was that the deferred revenues were hit by the virus problems that occurred that caused maybe some customers to not resign. What I'm curious about, was there any catch-up benefit that occurred in this quarter as a result of those customers perhaps closing that business this quarter?  

JOHN CONNORS: It's a good question, Tom, and, you know, we've--basically have about the same renewal assumptions we had going into October. We realized in the December quarter. You know, I think, there probably was a couple hundred million of contracts that we might have thought we would have in Q1 that we got in Q2, but similarly, you know, there's probably some contracts in Q2 that we -- that won't happen until Q3 or half 2. So you know, at any given time there's timing. I think we probably had several things in the first quarter that could have happened that didn't, but we also have some timing where things move out from Q2 to the second half. Net-net we expect -- you know, the annuity business to stay healthy if you take out the upgrade advantage, earn back the product deferral changes, we got pretty healthy run rate on the annuity business.  

TOM BERKOWITZ: Got it. Okay. And then just secondly you mentioned on the '05 outlook I've heard obviously the comments that you've made on the revenue side, but you also mentioned an increased focus on cost. I'm just curious, is that going to be a look at operational cost or maybe gross margin cost, how do you think about that and sort of what kind of magnitude are you considering.  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, we're looking and asking every group to really focus on their cost efficacy, whether it's the way we run our business processes, what our marketing expenditures are, consulting, just across the board we're expecting people to show improvements in FY '05.  

TOM BERKOWITZ: Okay. So that could offset from an earnings perspective that could offset perhaps a slower revenue growth rate over that one-year time period.  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, we're expecting to do good, hard work so that we show decent absolute profit growth while not jeopardizing what we need to do for the long term. So we'll be very focused on cost.  

TOM BERKOWITZ: Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Tom. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Next question comes from Adam Holt with J.P. Morgan. Your line is open.  

ADAM HOLT, ANALYST, J.P. MORGAN: Good afternoon. The first question has to do with the, I guess, mix shift on the Office 2000 side towards more license-oriented customers. You suggested that that was happening at the small and mid-size business level. What is happening among the larger enterprises along that line?  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, there's not much change in the large enterprise behavior, you know, a large percentage of those are on enterprise agreements or multi-year select, so that hasn't really changed. What we're seeing is a larger volume of license-only business in the small to mid-market for select and open, and we had a very strong quarter in the OEM channel with Information Worker, targeted largely at small business. You know, on that OEM channel is a terrific way to reach a lot of the small businesses, and it's one we'll push very hard with Small Business Server in addition to IW if that's the way customers want to purchase. You know, I think, the overall sales strategy and marketing strategy is to continue to sell and market and explain the benefits of our annuity programs. We do expect to grow that annuity program percentage of contracts in the mid-market, but there's just a lot of organizations out there that are going to be license-only purchasers and we're going to sell licenses only if that's what they want to buy.  

ADAM HOLT: My second question has to do with the raised guidance on the Server and tool side. Is that primarily driven by your improved outlook for server shipments or is there any change to the product release cycle behind the increase as well?  

JOHN CONNORS: I think it would be a general sentiment change that's a function of the -- with the -- a sentiment of seeing a big proxy called server shipments going up. I do think we're quite successful right now with our SQL Server growth rates versus competition, our Windows platform is growing better than the market, Exchange has been well received and I think we'll see a very successful series of quarters where people move notes applications to Exchange and Small Business Server is looking quite good in terms of the reception that we're receiving. So, I think, the sentiment is better, servers are better, and we've got a pretty good product lined up for the next 12 to 18 months.  

ADAM HOLT: Great. Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Adam. Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Yes, our next question comes from Mary Meeker with Morgan Stanley. Your line is open.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks. Couple questions, it's not uncommon, kind of a run-on sentence to try to set a couple of thoughts straight. Clearly a lot of folks, we've all gotten wrapped around the unearned revenue axle over the course of the last couple of years, often times appropriately so, but if you listen, John, to what you said on the call, your consumer business, your small to medium size business business, your enterprise business all seem to be doing better than expected and firming up. And a question here is that, our assumption is that those businesses, from an end user demand standpoint, account for a third and a third and a third of your revenue, so question one is, is that accurate, but it sounds as though you are feeling that the worst is over and your revenue predictability is rising. Is that true? Is question two. And to Rick's point, could you give us any sense of timing on Longhorn and lastly, it seems as though the Office 2003 interest and reception is quite strong. Would you say it is stronger than the last several releases that you have launched of Office? Thanks.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, thanks, Mary. And you're right, that was a multipart run-on sentence. First of all --.  

MARY MEEKER: I did take a breath or two.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, but good questions. The first, our mix of business, you know, if you take the breakout we give of the PC units, you guys all know roughly what the economics are per machine, our consumer business, if you take the MSN and home and entertainment, add those up it's pretty big. If you take the IW business, you know, the overwhelming majority of that business is a business market, and obviously the enterprise business, Server and tools, is principally to organizations, about half large, about half small and mid-size. So the mix is diversified which I think is a good thing for our company in terms of having a portfolio of businesses and ability to grow with GDP. In terms of revenue predictability, I would say on unearned it's better than it was going into the September quarter, and now that we have the upgrade advantage billing dynamic behind us it's probably a bit better. You know, the single largest variables now are what is the behavior of those upgrade Advantage customers, and secondly, for a large base of customers that have been traditionally license only, do they move to annuity. So I think we've got to do a good job of explaining what's happening in license growth in total and then of license growth in total what's happening for that that's annuity versus that's that is non, and we'll try to do a better job of that. I think we do have better predictability than we had going into the year. In terms of Longhorn, the most important thing I can mention is the planned released of Beta 1 this summer and we will be in the feedback loop process. Finally, on Office system 2003, there's no question this is the best and broadest release of Office we've ever had. It also has a number of components with respect to enterprise applications, with respect to work flow that are new or significantly enhanced from what we've ever delivered in the past. The real challenge for Office is two-fold. One is pricing. Do you have a mix shift such that the revenue per license is different? Or secondly, just the absolute installed base and revenue base is large, and growing that amount of revenue is a challenge. There's no question it's a better product, and the early reception at retail with machine shipped was good, and the feedback we're getting in terms of corporate users has been quite good. The real challenge is just the absolute size of the business.  

MARY MEEKER: Thanks, John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Mary. Operator, another we'll take another question, please.  

OPERATOR: Comes from Gibonney Huske, with Credit Suisse First Boston. Your line is open.  

GIVONY HUSK, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thank you. Just as you try to penetrate more in the middle market with, you know, SA and EA, what are you finding in terms of sort of the relative size of the deals, particularly on a per-seat basis, presumably they wouldn't get the same level of volume discount as one of your larger customers but also I was trying to understand, throw the attach rate in, you know, how many products are they putting under a typical deal. My second question is just, you know, what are the dynamic changes since you no longer have single version upgrades if you're on a license-only type of program then ultimately you're needing to pay the full version, you know, less whatever discounts you get. Is that influencing sort of the revenue growth you're seeing now and potentially could see into the next year?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yes, thanks, Givony. You know, in terms of the design of our licensing programs, the multiyear annuity, we're like any other commercial enterprise that has a volume oriented program. The more you buy, the less you pay per unit. And generally, large organizations tend to buy more per user than smaller organizations so the profile is the larger the product purchased, the more the discount. In terms of per seat. In terms of customer profiles, it really depends on what they've historically done and what their adoption is of our product set. Obviously the Office product and Windows product on the client have a similar profile and then the volume discounts are according to those. On the server side, and client access license, it's really a function of what have they deployed historically. What we're seeing in both the enterprise and we see in the mid-market and small businesses is that we are gaining share in the server side. That's reflected in our growth on the server Software and tools business being much higher than competition. And most importantly is what's the adoption of our VisualStudio.NET product tool set and our architecture, we've now passed Java in terms of the number of professional developers that use our VisualStudio.NET product suite, so we would expect the absolute amount of products that customers buy in the high end with EA's in the mid-market to grow. In terms of the price, you know, probably one of the biggest factors on price for U.S. based companies right now that we have to all be mindful of is foreign currency. The euro and the yen have strengthened pretty significantly and if you're a multinational that has broad-based distribution around the world the biggest single uplift you've gotten over the last 18 months is a weaker dollar. So, I think that's probably the single most important thing that investors should think about for U.S. companies. In terms of pricing, you know, we have a published price list, and then we have volume discounts that we use accordingly.  

GIVONY HUSK: I guess just to be more direct, if you look at as you move more to the mid-market that becomes a bigger percentage of your annuity mix if you look at your sort of annual revenue per desktop, does that stay roughly the same because you get, you know, lower volume discounts than maybe more product, or does that -- is that going to tend to go up or maybe even come down a little bit?  

JOHN CONNORS: It just really depends on the program they sign up for, Givony, and the distribution channel. If they're a license-only customer, that revenue per unit would be higher. If they move to an EA and we now have an EA that goes down to 250 seats, so it serves, you know, what is not a large organization, that that revenue per seat would be lower, so it really depends on the program.  

GIVONY HUSK: And my second question, more specifically in terms of if you look at sort of units on the Office, obviously, previously, you had customers that could take advantage of, you know, an upgrade pricing scenario, now they would be paying for full unit, are you seeing any benefits from that now and do you expect that to help on the revenue side over the next year?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, for those customers that bought upgrades in volume, a lot of those participated in the upgrade advantage program as part of licensing 6.0, and those contracts really begin to expire in large volume in the second half of this year with the fourth quarter and the first quarter of fiscal year '05 being the largest volume, so it's probably too early to tell what their purchasing behavior and volume will be.  

GIVONY HUSK: Okay. Thank you very much.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks Givony. Operator, we have time for two more questions.  

OPERATOR: Okay. Our next question comes from Drew Brosseau with SG Cowen. Your line is open.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, S.G. COWEN SECURITIES CORP.: Great. Thank you. John, I wanted to focus on the rest of the business that doesn't go through the balance sheet and have you, perhaps, talk a little bit about what you think is driving the pickup in that business, how sustainable that pickup might be, and what the key forces might be over the next 12 to 18 months that will cause that to either get stronger or weaker.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah. Good question, Drew. I think the -- there's a couple of different variables. One variable is the number of units we're seeing sold through the OEM channel for both Information Worker and Server is stronger than we anticipated. I think that's a function of both higher units in the OEM market for PC's and servers and probably slightly higher attach rate in certain areas than what we had a year ago. Secondly, Japan has been much stronger the first half of this fiscal year than a year ago, particularly for our Office products sold with personal computers. Then finally, you know, if you look at the absolute size of our business that is not with large organizations for Server and Information Worker, it's a big percentage, you know, for -- in some geographies as much as 50%, in some more. In that market, we're starting to see more purchasing just basically as the economy improves a bit and as profits improve. So we would expect, you know, OEM units to drive some of it. We do expect that the improved economy drives some of it, and then, you know, being completely straight and transparent, some of it is dollar-based exchange rates because the dollar has weakened.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Right. Okay. And are you anticipating that business getting stronger overall or staying the same or getting weaker?  

JOHN CONNORS: We do think that the OEM business in terms of units should continue to improve, both for the PC and the server market. I would think that our businesses there should remain pretty good. We do think that the mid-market will improve a bit as the economy improves. So, you know, we do think that things improve a bit and our forecast reflects that.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Okay. And then just lastly, we haven't talked about Linux, but can you share any thoughts or war stories about the competitive landscape?  

JOHN CONNORS: It's real clear Linux is probably the most significant competitor to the Windows platform. Both Windows and Linux, you know, are continuing to grow, and both are benefiting from the shift to Intel-based hardware. You know, I think, what we've seen is on the application space, Linux has been more successful when you re-host unit UNIX applications. We've delivered our--A set of tools that go by the acronym SFU 3.5 that is going to make it much easier to move UNIX-based applications to Windows than what we had previously. Secondly, I think we're starting to see customers, particularly in the enterprise space, see the value of our integrated innovation above the Windows stack with database, with messaging, with ISA, with Microsoft -- the -- our server management, with network-attached storage, so I think our TCO story is improving, and then finally I think our sales force is better equipped to talk about the advantages of our platform versus Linux. No one should take that to mean it's not a serious thing that we look at with respect to competition. Finally, I think the biggest factor for us to focus on is continuing to drive the adoption and use of our developer tools and our .NET framework for the development of applications. Linux isn't close to the number of APS or the development tools sophistication we have and we have got to continue to drive that.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Great. Thanks John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Drew. Operator, we'll take our last question, please.  

OPERATOR: Jason Maynard with Merrill Lynch. Your line is open, sir.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, MERRILL LYNCH: Hi. Just one question on Office system '03. Do you have any idea yet or can sort of quantify what maybe the attach rate for some of the server and collaboration products are and how that's influencing license only? Then can we extrapolate anything from maybe some of the early data there, in terms of what you're thinking about for forecasting UA renewals?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, good question Jason. I think, you know, the collaboration attach for servers with Office 2003, it's probably, you know, a small enough base that we start from that the percentage growth is astronomically great but the absolute growth relative to our IW business isn't enough to get you folks real enthused yet. The potential is very good, and as we release our -- what we call our Information Worker new markets accelerators, I think, you'll see a lot of people say, oh, I get it. I get what this collaboration thing with Office system 2003 is. You know, whether that's for Sarbanes-Oxley, whether that's for sophisticated project management, there's a whole host of Information Worker accelerators we have, and I'd encourage you guys to go out to our site. We do think, though, there's no question that the collaboration scenarios we have will help to sell both Office as well as our server products, and they are an important part of our go-to-market and an important part of our overall software assurance sales strategy.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Well, that wraps things up. Thank you everybody, first of all, for your patience with our technical difficulties today and thank you for your participation in the call. If you have any further questions please feel free to call me or the IR team directly. As I mentioned at the top of this call this call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business on January 22, 2005. In addition you can hear -- you can dial in to hear the replay, by dialing 888-568-0623, use the passcode 5924, or if you're dialing internationally, dial 402-998-1526. Again using the same passcode, 5924. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business January 30, 2004. Thanks again for joining us today.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040205e01m002js
  


 HD
 Q1  2004 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,483 words
   PD
23 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and thank you all for holding. I would like to remind all parties that your lines have been placed on a listen-only mode for the duration of the conference call until the question-and-answer session. The call is also being recorded, if you have any objection, you may disconnect.  

I would now like to turn the call over to Mr. Curt Anderson, Senior Director of Investor Relations, thank you, sir. You may begin.  

   TD
CURT ANDERSON, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Holly. Good afternoon, everybody and thank you all for joining us today. This afternoon, I am joined by John Connors our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Di Valerio, Vice President and Corporate Controller, and John Seethoff our Deputy General Counsel.  

We will be following our normal format today, Scott will provide color around our first quarter results and John will review our guidance for the second quarter and full fiscal year '04. After that, we will have some time for your questions.  

Let me start with a few housekeeping items, then we will move on to the details. As many of you are aware our earnings release including an addendum of financial highlights, which includes more detailed information about revenue operating expenses and other items. I would encourage you to review that document for more specific information related to products, sales information, income statement and the balance sheet. Scott's comments will largely follow the same outline as we do in the addendum.  

We've posted our earnings release and addendum on the Investor Relations web site at  www.microsoft.com/msft. Subsequent to the call, we will post a quarterly financial summary slide deck, that contains highlights from the quarter, and an earnings highlights document that also contains highlights from the call and the Q&A today.  

Today's call will be recorded so please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, you will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live web cast of today's call at the Investor Relations web site again at  www.microsoft.com/msft. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on October 23, 2004.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law, and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is also not allowed without the expression permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward looking, these statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual result could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management discussion analysis section, of our 2003 form 10-K. And in other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Additionally, we do not take any duty to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, let me begin briefly by calling out key results for the quarter. For the quarter ended September 30, 2003, net revenue was 8.22 billion, 6% increase over revenues of 7.75 billion for the same period in the prior year. Operating income came in at 3.15 billion, compared to operating income of 3.03 billion reported in the prior year.  

Diluted earnings per share for the September 2003 quarter were 24 cents, including equity compensation expense of approximately 6 cents per share. The prior year' diluted earnings per share were 19 cents, which included equity compensation of approximately 6 cents per share as well and a charge for investment impairments of 3 cents per share.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results. Scott?  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Curt. And good afternoon, everyone. As Curt mentioned, our press release includes an addendum, which gives a more comprehensive overview of our financial results for the quarter and I would encourage you to review that information.  

I would, however, like to use this time to highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mentioned will be to the comparable quarter of last year. Let me start by giving you an overview of the quarter, then I will follow some more specifics around how each of our seven business segments performed.  

From a revenue perspective we had a solid quarter with net revenue up 6% to $8.22 billion, which exceeded our previous expectations driven primarily by PC demand, strong server sales and better-than-expected results in our consumer businesses. Reported revenues also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. Had rates been constant with the prior year, revenue would have been approximately $165 million lower.  

In terms of key business drivers, we estimate that PC units were much higher than expected with mid teen growth, while server unit growth was slightly better than expected a just over 10%. Both multi-year and license only billings were down from the prior year given the large volume of upgrade advantage contracts signed in the prior year. Additionally, securities concerns distracted our customers, our sales force, and the channel from closing new deals and renewals. This contributed to the approximately $750 million sequential decline in unearned revenue which was about $450 million more than than we had expected.  

Operating expenses came in at $5.07 billion, which included higher-than-expected cost of goods sold related to early Xbox holiday sell in and G&A costs, partially offset by lower sales and marketing spend, which is expected to be spent during the remainder of the fiscal year. These results combined with our higher-than-expected revenue, resulted in operating income of $3.15 billion higher than we had expected.  

Investment income totaled $763 million. Net income for the quarter was $2.61 billion. With diluted earnings per share of 24 cents, including 6 cents in equity compensation expense.  

Recognition of revenue related to multi year licensing agreements during the quarter accounted for approximately 27% of total revenue. This compares with 26% in the March quarter and 28% in the June quarter. In our addendum we provide further details about how this deferred revenue will be earned out during the next four quarters.  

Now let me take a minute to provide some color around PC demand. We estimate total PC unit shipments worldwide grew in the mid teens during the quarter. The U.S. EMEA and the Asia-Pacific region, excluding Japan, all showed mid teen growth. Japan was even a few points higher than that, and Latin America was a little over mid single digit growth.  

Now let me discuss our business segments in a little more detail. The Client business was flat on a year over year basis at $2.81 billion. Exceeding our expectations by just over 7%. The core driver of our performance during the quarter was better-than-expected PC unit demand particularly in the consumer PC space. All though unit demand was much better than expected, our license growth was slightly muted relative to the strong PC unit demand as a result of a very difficult year over year comparable.  

If you remember in the prior year, client results benefited from the recognition of OEM inventory accumulation by a couple hundred million dollars. As the company transitioned how we build and record revenue from OEM customers. Also, the mix of Professional versions of Windows during the quarter held up pretty well at 62% compared to the 63% mix in the prior year given a strong PC shipments during the quarter.  

Revenue from Server and Tools grew 15% to $1.87 billion. Windows Server, Microsoft SQL server and Microsoft Exchange server all experienced double digit revenue growth driven by a number of customers higher priced enterprise editions. Since launch, customers have adopted Windows Server 2003 more than twice as fast as the predecessor, Windows 2000 Server. In addition, with over 120 million seats purchased, exchange continues to be a leading messaging solution for companies. And finally, as in prior quarters we saw strong growth in sever OEM sales, as unit growth and Intel based servers continues to outpace overall market growth.  

Information worker revenue is up 1% this quarter, to $2.29 billion, primarily due to the earn back of previously deferred revenue. Year over year comparables are tough due to the large number of upgrade advantage contracts that were signed in the first quarter of last year. During the quarter, revenue from OEM licensing grew 30% with particular strength in our pre-installed office products sold in Japan. Additionally, revenue recorded in the quarter did not include $137 million for technology guarantees, that were provided to customer who purchased Office XP prior to the availability of the new Office 2003 product. We expect the majority of this unearned revenue will be recognized in the second quarter.  

Revenue from Microsoft Business Solutions was $128 million this quarter, up 21% year over year. Primarily due to continued growth in licensing of NaVision products, which accounted for $22 million of the increase in revenue.  

During the first quarter we did see a bit of slow down in our channel momentum as we integrated the MBS channel into the SMS&P organization. However, Business Solutions again added over 4200 new customers during the quarter, and reached the 1,000 customer milestone for the Microsoft CRM product.  

MSN had solid revenue growth of 15% year over year, coming in slightly above our expectations of only low single digit growth. Due to churn in our subscriber base and the transfer of Broadband customers to Quest at the beginning of the quarter, MSN subscriptions fell 6% year over year and ended the period with 8 million subscriptions.  

Advertising once again had a very strong quarter with growth of 51% year over year. We are still seeing robust growth in search based advertising and traditional online advertising revenue continues to pick up momentum as the general market shows signs of recovery.  

In addition, for the first quarter since we launched MSN achieved operating profitability While we will continue to make investments in MSN and near term profitability may fluctuate, we are very proud to see the business reach this goal.  

Now, let me turn it to Home and Entertainment. Home and Entertainment revenue increased 20% with $581 million, primarily due to earlier than planned sell into the Xbox holiday offering. In the U.S., September NPD data shows the Xbox continues to maintain its never two market share position in consoles and has increased the life to date software cash rate to 5.9. Additionally, with more than 400 titles available this holiday our expectation of life to date sales of 14.5 to 16 million Xbox consoles by the end of our fiscal year remains unchanged. We also continue to improve Xbox Live, with the October 1 launch of the Xbox Live, now free update, and with over 50 Live titles expected by December.  

And finally, revenue from our Mobile and Embedded Devices business grew to $53 million on strong results from our Windows Mobile, MapPoint and Windows Embedded products. Windows XP Embedded is generating significant growth as projects move from evaluation to sale. Since the release of Windows XP and eMbedded Service Pack 1 in October, 2002, which included new capabilities for retail point of sale systems, there have been a number of notable customer deployment, including Circuit City, and Office Max in the U.S. and AS Watson in Europe. Additionally, this week, AT&T Wireless announced the availability of the Motorola MPX 200, the first Windows mobile base Smartphone in the U.S.  

Now let me talk about the rest of the income statement. As I mentioned earlier, total operating expenses were $5.07 billion. Cost of revenues increased 10% and was higher than expected primarily due to earlier channel sell in of the Xbox holiday offering and higher product support and consulting services. The balance of operating expenses increased $213 million. R&D was about what we expected. Sales and marketing was less than we expected as some marketing spend slipped into subsequent quarters. And G&A was higher than expected, primarily due to legal and head count related expenses.  

Operating income was $3.15 billion, a 4% increase from the prior year, including $1.02 billion in equity compensation. Operating income saw stronger than expected revenue partially offset by higher than expected cost of goods sold and G&A costs during the quarter.  

Investment income of $763 million was stronger than we had expected, primarily due to improved market conditions, that resulted in higher gains on the sale of investments during the quarter. Our effective tax rate remained at 33% for the quarter.  

Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow from operations decreased to $3.42 billion. Primarily due to a decline in billings from the prior year. On the balance sheet, total assets were $84.3 billion and stockholder's equity was $66.7 billion at the end of September.  

When you look at prior periods you will see that we have retroactively adjusted the balance sheet for our adoption of FAS 123 to reflect accumulative impact of equity based compensation grants from fiscal 1996 through the current quarter.  

Cash and short-term investments totaled $51.6 billion. Up nearly $2.6 billion from last quarter. Accounts receivable decreased sequentially $663 million, due to solid collections of the high June quarter billings, partially offset by sequentially lower September quarter billings.  

DSO was at 56 days compared to a 45 days in the prior year September quarter. Keep in mind that the prior year quarter was helped a lot by strong collections of upgrade advantage contracts that were billed and paid during the quarter. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue and the average sales number, so it is consistent with what is included in receivables.  

Equity and other investments increased $270 million. sequentially, primarily due to improved market conditions Our other current liabilities increased $1.95 billion, primarily due to the accrual of the 16 cent dividend declared on September 12 that is scheduled to be paid on November 7. Also as mentioned earlier, unearned balance decreased sequentially about $750 million to 8.2 billion. Contracted, but unbilled revenues, still a little over &6 billion, consistent with the previous quarters. And John will comment more on unearned revenue in a minute.  

Finally, I would like to point out our average diluted weighted shares outstanding were 10.88 billion, slightly higher than we guided as a result of the impact of the increased stock price, which reduced the number of anti-dilutive stock options in the calculation. We continue to actively manage share delusion from various buy back programs and this quarter we spend approximately $1.2 billion to repurchase over 43 million shares.  

Now let me turn it back to Curt and John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Scott. I would now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and guidance.  

JOHN CONNORS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, MICROSOFT: Thanks Scott and Curt and good afternoon to everyone. As always, let me start with a few key points from this quarter's results. Even though corporate I.T. spending has been slow to recover, we delivered another solid quarter. Our performance was driven by robust consumer PC demand, and particularly good results from our emerging businesses, MSN, Home and Entertainment and Mobility and Embedded Devices.  

PC demand for the first quarter was much better than we had forecasted across all geographies but particularly in Japan, the U.S. and Europe. We saw the most strength on the consumer side, and notebook sales improved from the expectations we had in July. The strong back to school market benefited our client business, which came in above our revenue guidance.  

The server market did a little better than we expected as well. MSN continued to post very strong advertising growth in addition to having its first profitable quarter, and our holiday offering for Xbox did better than we expected.  

In Mobile and Embedded Devices we had great wins, as Scott mentioned, in the embedded OS space, a segment many considered lost to Linux. In addition, we launched the first Smartphone for the North American market. We feel great about the progress that our emerging consumer businesses continue to make in terms of revenue growth, market penetration, and progress and trends towards profitability.  

Expenses overall were roughly in line with our guidance. However, costs of goods sold was higher due to better-than-expected sales of the Xbox offering, and sales and marketing was lower as some expenses related to our product launches will now be spent in the second quarter. EPS was about a penny higher than our guidance.  

Before we move on to the forecast, I want to spend a couple of minutes on where we ended the quarter from an unearned revenue perspective. I think there are several factors that impacted our previous expectation on unearned balances. First, we closed a large amount of business in the June quarter. And in hindsight, our forecast for the September quarter was a little too optimistic. September is typically our softest enterprise quarter of the year as we rebuild the pipeline and set new sales quotas. This quarter was similar but it took several weeks longer than normal to finalize quotas.  

Secondly, corporate I.T. spending, especially in the Enterprise segment, was not quite what we had forecast. Third, the realignment of our MBS and NaVision sales personnel, into our broader SM, S P channel, created a bit of a disruption. And then finally, security concerns after a few very high profile attacks, in the latter half of the quarter, diverted the focus of our customers, our sales force, and the channel away from closing new deals and renewals.  

We underestimated the impact of the first three factors, after such strong billings in our June quarter, and the final factor was not included in our forecast at all. However, the most important thing we need to make clear, and that we need to get done, is to ensure that we are doing everything we can to help customers get more secure. If we need to use sales cycles on this critical customer satisfaction issue, we will continue to do so.  

Now, let me turn to the details of our forecast for the second quarter, and the full fiscal year, beginning with our assumptions for the macro economic environment. While we did see stronger consumer spending in the first quarter, corporate I.T. spending has been slower to recover. Our guidance for the second quarter does not take into account any significant improvements in the macro economic environment.  

However, for the second half of our fiscal year, we are forecasting a small improvement in corporate spend. For the full year FY '04, we are raising our PC forecast from the guidance we gave you in July, to upper single digits. After the strong consumer demand on a global basis that we saw in the first quarter, we are forecasting that the consumer market will grow just slightly faster than the business market for the full year, although both estimates have been raised since July.  

For the second quarter, we are looking for upper single digit growth. For the full year FY '04, we believe the server market will improve a little over the guidance we gave with growth in the upper single digits. About 1% higher than we expected back in July. As always, this represents a rollup of both Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware. We expect to see Intel-based servers continue to outgrow proprietary UNIX, and the Windows platform to grow faster than the market as well. For the second quarter, we are looking for mid to upper single digit growth.  

Now, to revenue and unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year. Net revenue for fiscal year 2004 should be in the range of 34.8 to $35.3 billion, up 8-10%. This revenue is higher than what we forecasted in July, reflecting the upside from the consumer businesses, and higher-than-expected PC demand that we saw in the first quarter, as well as a slight increase in the Server and Tools forecast for the remainder of the year. Net revenue for the December quarter should be in the range of 9.7 to $9.8 billion or up 13-14%.  

Now, let me break this guidance down by segments. Starting with Client, full fiscal year revenue should grow 8-9%, up from 6% in our prior forecast. For the second quarter, we expect Client revenue to increase 18-19%. The year over year comparison for the second quarter is higher than some might expect, due to the inventory accumulation that took place last year, that pulled some revenue out of the second quarter into the first. Overall, our guidance is consistent with an increased expectation for PC shipments. As a reminder, we will not see the same benefit from increases in the mix of Windows XP Professional licenses sold that we saw throughout 2003.  

Server and Tools revenue should continue to show strong growth. And we have raised our full-year growth rates to 12-14% from 8-12%. In the second quarter, revenues should grow between 16 and 18%.  

Our Server products continue to gain share, in a very competitive environment. We have seen great adoption of Windows Server 2003 and we just launched exchange 2003 this week. Small business Server 2003, which is targeted specifically at the small business market, has all the marker was being a big winner. The product provides great business value to our customers and is a large market opportunity for our partners worldwide.  

Information Worker revenue should be up roughly 10% for the full year in line with our previous guidance. And up 16-17% for the second quarter. The new Office System was launched in New York on Tuesday. We have many great examples of customers who are already reaping the productivity benefits of the new product sweep. Third party research shows productivity gains for workers and that the solutions paid for themselves on average in under a year. This is delivering real business value to our customers today. The second quarter benefits from retail launch activities, and strength in the OEM channel, which benefits the full year as well.  

Revenue from Business Solutions should be just under $700 million for the fulfill year, down from our previous forecast in July. We expect revenue in the December quarter to be roughly $170 million. Our first quarter results reflected the impact of sales force and channel realignment, that I mentioned earlier. We believe that the changes are important to our long-term success, and we are hopeful that the most significant level of disruption is behind us.  

MSN revenue for the full year should be better than we forecasted in July and should end the year around $1.9 billion, down slightly from last year. The December quarter should be just shy of $500 million. We believe the Internet access subscriber base will continue to come down over the course of the year. Our strong advertising revenues should offset the decreases in the subscription portion of our business for the full fiscal year. The management team in MSN has done a stellar job of remaining focused on achieving profitability, while continuing to invest in large opportunities such a Search.  

Mobile and Embedded Devices revenue should be up almost 50% for the full year, a little higher than our previous guidance and approximately $60 million for the second quarter.  

Home and Entertainment revenue for the full fiscal year should be flat to up slightly compared to last year. We expect December to be around $1.25 billion accounting for roughly 45% of our full-year guidance for this segment.  

We've got a compelling holiday offering and we remain on track to have more than 400 titles available by the end of the calendar year. We also expect to have sold 14.5 to 16 million consoles life to date by the end of of the fiscal year, consistent with our expectation in July.  

We expect the unearned revenue balance to be down sequentially next quarter, in part due to a modest reduction in annuity license mix and the fact that contract and annuity billings are not likely to offset the substantial earn-back of revenue related to the licensing transition of the prior year.  

Now for the rest of the P&L. Consistent with July, all of our guidance on cogs and operating expenses includes equity compensation as a result of our adoption of FAS 123, on July 1, of fiscal 2004. The breakdown of the equity compensation expense by line item is roughly equivalent to that in the 10-K. Total compensation expense for the second quarter should be approximately a billion and for the full year, approximately 4 billion.  

It is important to note the equity compensation expense forecast I just gave, does not include the impact from the option transfer program, which is expected to be concluded during the second quarter.  

Cost of revenues should be approximately 19% of net revenue for the full year and around 22% of net revenue for the December quarter, reflecting the higher percentage of Xbox console sales in the holiday season.  

Research and development expenses are likely to be between 19 and 20% of net revenue for the full year, down slightly from our previous guidance. In the second quarter, R&D should be between 17 and 18% of net revenue.  

Sales and marketing expenses should still come in around 23 to 24% of net revenue for the full year, unchanged from our previous guidance, and should be between 23, 22 and 23% for the December quarter. The December quarter includes some significant launch costs from the new Office System, as well as Exchange 2003, and Small Business Server 2003.  

Finally, general and administrative expenses should be about 5% of net revenue for the full year, which reflects the increased expense from this quarter, and between 4 and 5% for the second quarter.  

So in total, operating expenses should be approximately 48% of net revenue for the full year, unchanged from July and just under 45% for the December quarter. This results in an operating income range of 11.4 to $11.7 billion for the full fiscal year, and 3.2 to $3.3 billion for the second quarter.  

For the full year, investment income should be approximately $2.6 billion, and $600 million for the second quarter. The guidance for the full year is a little higher than we thought in July, due to the additional $163 million that we recognized this quarter.  

As an important reminder, this forecast does not include any potential investment impairments, or gains and losses attributable to derivative instruments.  

With an effective tax rate of 33%, and a projected outstanding share count of roughly 10.88 billion shares, for both the full year and the quarter, we arrive at fully diluted EPS guidance of 86 to 88 cents for the full fiscal year and fully diluted earnings per share of 23 to 24 cents for the December quarter.  

As always, I want to take some time to go through the risks that we see in the forecast for both the full year, and the second quarter. Many of the risks remain unchanged from quarter to quarter but they are still worth repeating.  

First, our efforts to help our customers address the security challenge they face will absolutely continue. This is the number one priority at Microsoft. Steve Ballmer outlined some of the new initiatives we are taking a few weeks ago at our worldwide partner event. Our sales force and support organizations are focused on taking care of our customers and that could result in additional time being required to close deals or additional investments in education, business process, and technologies.  

While we haven't included any improvement in the economy in the second quarter forecast, we have included some modest improvement in corporate spend in the second half of the year. If things were to deteriorate, our results would certainly be affected. Linux and other noncommercial software products continue to be a threat to all commercial software companies. We continue to get some benefit from foreign exchange rates and a strengthening of the dollar would reduce that benefit going forward. Litigation, generally, remains a risk. And finally, continuing to be successful requires great execution on all fronts.  

In closing, I want to reiterate that we had a very solid quarter from a financial results perspective. We have great momentum in our consumer business and I think our forecast going forward reflects that optimism. We've got a host of fantastic new products being launched this quarter, especially in our Enterprise and SMB space, that deliver real value to customers. The product road map over the next few years looks really promising as well.  

We are committed to investing in our customers and partners to help them address their security issues. We have rolled out our new compensation plan that will help us attract and retain the most talented employees, and finally, we announced an increase in our annual dividend from 8 to 16 cents in September.  

We certainly do have challenges ahead. But we are making the right investments and organizational changes that will enable us to continue to be successful and optimistic about the long term. With that, thanks very much and let me turn it back to Curt for some questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Thanks John. With that let's go to questions. Operator if you could repeat the instructions and I would like to remind everybody that we try to accommodate as many questions as possible so please try to limit yourself to one question.  

OPERATOR: Thank you, at this time if anyone would like to ask a question, please press star one on your touch-tone phone. To withdraw your question, press star two. Once again, star one if you do have a question. Our first question comes from Charlie Di Bona, you may ask your question and Please state your company name.  

CHARLES DI BONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Yes, it is Charlie Di Bona of Sanford Bernstein. John, I wonder if we could drill down a little bit on the unearned revenue situation and maybe get get a little color on why it is down here beyond what you said earlier in your discussion.  

First of all, could you let us know a little bit what happened to off balance sheet unearneds and then maybe what has happened to the various segments undelivered element, volume licensing and other categories.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, Charlie, thanks. The contracted but unbilled remain right about $6 billion, consistent with the end of June. In terms of the undelivered element, no real change from what we expected in the guidance from July. If you take a look at the volume licensing programs, you know, in total, we were down obviously significantly from the prior year, given the UA phenomenon as we transitioned to licensing 60. Enterprise agreements grew year over year. But select and open did show declines.  

If I, you know, kind of go through the annuity business, I think first of all, we were probably a little bit optimistic about what that quarter was going to look like coming off the very strong June quarter. And I think we underestimated how many new rolls and how many alignment of responsibilities we would have in the SMS&P space. Finally, I think the, you know, if you break down sort of the quarter by months, we saw real weak billings for about 3 1/2, 4 weeks in the enterprise space and in to some extent in the mid market space, after the blaster virus. Things began to improve towards the last part of the quarter.  

EMEA renewal rates continue to be just about what we expected, you know, sort of that 2/3 to 75% range of getting renewed. And I think if you summed it up, you know, we probably over forecasted with a little too much optimistic. The large enterprise segment didn't grow quite as much as we thought. We probably got impacted by security issues in large organizations more than small. And we just didn't have quite the external facing execution in the mid market that we thought we would.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Just one quick follow-up. The $137 million of office revenues, that were deferred to next quarter, related to technology guarantees, how did you account for that? Is that in your unearned?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, that's on the balance sheet and gets earned in the second quarter.  

CHARLES DI BONA: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Drew Brosseau you may ask your question and Please state your company name.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN SECURITIES CORPORATION: Hi, SG Cowen. Charlie, that was my set of questions, too. I guess, let me just follow that then with your comments about the second quarter, John, regarding the unearned revenue. It sounds like we're going to be looking at a similar amount of amortization off the balance sheet, but still lagging in terms of new adds. But you guys just don't seem to be particularly concerned about whether what we just saw is a real negative trend and I'm looking for some help as to why we shouldn't be really concerned about what we just saw.  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, I think the, you know, there is a couple of factors to think about. We are seeing, you know, in the first quarter, we do expect the second quarter, some mix shift in particularly in the server business and the mid market business, in that we are seeing more sales of both Office as well as Servers in our COEM business than through the volume licensing. So that is a positive in terms of customers are buying, it is just not an annuity program per se.  

If you think about the second quarter, we would not anticipate a sequential decline nearly as large as we saw this quarter. But we do anticipate a sequential decline. We likely would see, depending on how things play out, some decline that would be modest in the third quarter, and then those billings rates should start to grow again positively in Q4.  

A lot of it depends on how do we respond in the mid market as we get things aligned in the channel. How much sales cycle do we have to spend with respect to our security initiative. And then, I think, finally, what does the UA renewal rate look like as we get that large bi-wave of UA renewal happening mostly over the latter part of the second half and early FY '05.  

You know, and finally, I think if you look at how much revenue we're earning from that licensing 6.0 phenomenon, it takes pretty enormous billings to offset that earn-back. So, I think at this point, I wouldn't say we have a crisis. I would say we missed the forecast. So you should have a concern. But we feel pretty good about what the next three quarters look like, relative to the market, and relative to competition.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Just to put a finer point on it, John, to the extent that we look at bookings as a lead indicator of your long-term growth, obviously this is a big decline against a very difficult compare but over the balance of this year, it doesn't sound like we are going to be looking for much, if any growth in bookings.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, I would not expect significant growth in bookings between now and the end of the year, relative to the earn-back we have from fiscal year '03 licensing activity.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Bob Austrian, you may ask your question. Please state your company name.  

BOB AUSTRIAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Banc of America Securities, same subject, John. Sorry about that. First, can you give us any insight into the actual experience of trying to convert UAs that are running out of their 24 months and give us a line on that? It seems to me as we've talked about in a the past that is one of the biggest sources of erosion in deferred.  

And then secondly, away from UA, which was a one-time payment, so to speak, is there any other seasonality in the timing of multi-year contracts that can help us understand either some of the decline this time, you didn't mention seasonality in payment terms or a source of what the trend is going to be like beyond the December, for which you did guide us explicitly?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Bob. It's too early to have a handle on what the UA renewal dynamic will be. We're hard at work on a broad range of channel and sales programs on that UA front, both in terms of the opportunity with EAs, as well as the conversion to software assurance. But we're really not going to know how we're doing probably until we get realistically to the end of this fiscal year.  

I think the, you know, the second thing to think about with respect to the volume licensing program is how do we do on new EAs in the mid market segment for those customers that did not purchase UA? So it is too early on UA. And I think the, you know, sequential up or down on the unearned will just look and see how this next quarter goes and we will have more visibility into those annuity programs and half to the January call.  

BOB AUSTRIAN: Have you any feel, feedback, whether it comes to trying to determine whether folks are willing to buy these multi-year subscriptions? I guess what I'm asking is, you cited execution and distraction and security, primarily, and forecasting and didn't mention anything about clients ongoing responsiveness to the multi-year methods of buying products. Do you have any color at all regarding whether that goes well? Or that as well as is a bit tougher terms of explaining the movements here?  

JOHN CONNORS: No, you know, I think the SA value program and the trial we did in terms of its benefits, the results looked good in terms of the benefits. I think the second factor is what does the product road map look like. And I think we've got a good product road map. The multi-year nature of the program doesn't appear to be a big hurdle in customers' minds. Product road map is more important, I think, and then I think secondly that what do corporate profits look like and what do I.T. budgets look like is a much larger factor in my mind. And then do customers see us delivering a great secure road map, and we've had history of when we have a challenge of rising to it, and this won't be any exception.  

One thing that is important, though, we do, you know, the sales force really does have its number one priority, ensuring that we are dealing with the customer satisfaction front first and revenue contracts second. And so, we've really got to be sure we are getting everything we can to help customers get secured whether that's technology, whether that's business process, whether that's prescriptive guidance, and we've got to do that.  

BOB AUSTRIAN: Sure. Thanks for the answers, John.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS & COMPANY: Yes, same topic. John, I wonder if you could address a concern I have that you just shipped the Office 2003 and it is probably 2 1/2 to 3 years before we get the next wave of products around Long Horn.  

If I am an Enterprise customer, an Upgrade Advantage or Select and Open customer, and I may not upgrade for a first year after a product launches, I'm probably looking at a four year period where I'm not going to be getting a new product, so why do I enter into multi-year agreements?  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, I think the key thing to think about, Rick, is the product road map vary broadly. You know, we haven't announced a ship date for Long Horn, but what I would say is we're holding our Professional Developer Conference next week. We will have the largest attendance at that we've ever had and it sold out earlier than any PDC we've ever held.  

I think what will come very clear about that PDC and is pretty clear to most people is we've got the broadest vision and the greatest product road map of any software company in the world, and that will get solidified. If you look at the near-term product road map and you look at the installed base of what is out there, there is just a heck of a lot of NT 4 and predecessor versions, there is a heck of a lot of Office 97 and old versions. We've got a new version of SQL coming out in the second half of 2004 that we think will be a real break through product and there is a lot of old machines.  

So I think, you know, the issue about will people view the annuity program as being attractive, is less an issue in their mind than, hey, how am I going to take advantage of this, this technology set? And there could be some customers that choose to go license only, versus annuity. The most important thing is that they take advantage of this incredible product road map we've got coming.  

RICK SHERLUND: It would seem to me that, you know, around Long Horn, you could have the biggest product cycle in the history of the company.  

I'm just concerned that if you've already got Office 2003 under your agreement now, you know, the renewals, I can understand how you, you know, you haven't signed up already and you have the older products while you might have the incentive to do this.  

But are there things you can offer incrementally to help hold those people that are already under license agreement and get them to renew?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, I think the largest value is under the SA value program, Rick. And as we get that more broadly rolled out and deployed, you know, we will get a lot of feedback and if we have to add more benefits to the SA value program, we will do that.  

RICK SHERLUND: Okay. Thanks.  

OPERATOR: Heather Bellini you may ask your question and please state your company name.  

HEATHER BELLINI, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Yeah, a couple of questions. First, I was wondering if, John, you could comment a little bit about SA attach rates?  

And also, on the renewal side, when someone is renewing an Enterprise agreement, how should we think about the type of discounts that companies are typically getting. And if you kind of thought about it from a book to bill perspective, does the average company keep spend flat near a book to bill of one or is it greater or less? How should we think about that?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Heather. The SA value attach, you know, it is early in the program, the feedback we're getting from customers that were in the trial is they like a lot of the benefits. I think we will see how we do in the attach over the course of the next three quarters.  

For EA renewals, our experience has been that the renewal rates continue to be good, and in fact, the average contract size tends to go up as people add more Server product, and more client access licenses.  

If you look at what we have to offer on the Server side with Share Point, with Content Manager, with you know, new versions of SMS, we've got, and the security products that are forthcoming, we've got a lot more Server infrastructure and Cal product to sell and so the EAs tend to have a larger aggregate contract value.  

In terms of the discounts, with respect to those renewals, we haven't changed our discounting structure over the course of the last 2 1/2, 3 year years so there hasn't been any significant erosion.  

HEATHER BELLINI: Great, thank you.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker you may ask your question.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Yes, to look at this unearned question just a little bit differently, John, clearly this is largely an enterprise-related issue. Could you give us a sense of the business in the quarter and how it was divided between, revenue was divided between SME, consumer and enterprise? And talk about those growth rates a little bit. You did it indirectly but if you could do that directly, that would be great if you had that kind of data at your finger tips.  

And secondly kind of Rick's question Office 2003, in some respects the product is a little before its time, and on the other hand, it is clearly the best version of Office you ever produced. And is it your expectation, given the early reviews, in six to 12 months you may find that you've got much more interest early on in the product cycle and having a more powerful upgrade for a version of Office than you have had in years?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks, Mary. In terms of segments I would characterize it as follows. The consumer segment across the board was just very good. Whether that was PC shipments, whether that was Office attach, whether that was consumer software, Xbox, et cetera, it was just very good. You know, retail for Windows and Office isn't a real significant part of those businesses, but generally, consumer was quite good.  

The mid-sized market and the SMB market was a little less than we expected. But we had higher growth plans for this year in that segment than we did Enterprise. And the Enterprise business grew year over year but we didn't have quite as good a quarter as we would have expected. I think the sales cycle lost as a result of working security issue, is probably the greatest in larger organizations. The more sophisticated, the more time it takes.  

MARY MEEKER: Could you give us a sense of your latest cut of how big each of those three areas is as a percent of revenue, just to kind of relatively set them on a relative basis?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, we don't break them out that way and they're all big.  

In terms of Office 2003, clearly, it is a real breakthrough set of products. The customers we've had through and the customers that have started to use it, we've got a tremendous amount of enthusiasm. It is without a doubt going to be a very, very successful set of products.  

And the real question will be, given the absolute size, what is the absolute growth and therefore what is the relative percentage increase. But I think it will prove to be, probably, a real breakthrough in terms of individual use, as well as being a critical part of departmental aps and enterprise ap architecture.  

MARY MEEKER: From a demand standpoint, do you think that is a six to 12 month, a lift in six to 12 months or is it more 12 to 24?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, I don't think it will be a turn the dial in the near term dramatically, given the base of the information worker business. But I think we will have good results over the next couple of years as a result.  

MARY MEEKER: Thanks, John.  

OPERATOR: Tom Berquist you may ask your question.  

TOM BERQUIST, ANALYST, SMITH BARNEY: Thank you. Tom Berquist with Smith Barney. You had a fair amount of points about the security issues in the quarter and the impact on customer, you alluded to some work that you guy did and some products that are shipping. And I'm just curious if you could elaborate a little bit on, are you referring primarily to what you're doing in the patch management side?  

You've also announced some shield technologies and you've also, there has been debates about what you guys are going to do or not do on antivirus and some other areas. Could you kind of get us up to date on your thoughts on security?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, I think there is probably three ways to think about it. The first is really business process and how do we ensure that customers have the best possible prescriptive guidance on how to get secured today. We are investing a lot of time and effort in our consulting as well as our own internal I.T. group and the product groups, getting that prescriptive guidance out.  

Secondly, we are making available a lot of our consulting time, and we will our partners in terms of making sure people are getting secured from a business process perspective. In the interim, over the next several, you know, months, and year, you should expect to hear more about some products we have from a security perspective. We don't have anything on AV to talk about.  

And longer term, I think the product set we've got to see, you know, security become one of the reasons why our products win awards. So you know, there is kind of a three-month really work extraordinarily hard on prescriptive guidance and education, longer term, it is interim release of some technology, and then the multi-year road map has to have products that are extraordinarily secure.  

I think the PDC next week should give you folks a lot more insight into some of the things we're thinking on the security front From a technology road map perspective.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator we have time for just two more calls or questions, please.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. Brian Skiba you may ask your question.  

BRIAN SKIBA, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANC: Yes, John, if you can kind of elaborate on what your feeling is around migration efforts. You've obviously got a very large installed base of 9x and NT users out there for .NET and Office 2003 and probably for some of your security issues you really need XP clients out there.  

Are you guys taking any explicit efforts to try to accelerate some of that migration or is that just fighting a storm against the enterprise and their spending patterns right now?  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, clearly, the products we have to offer today are very high quality from a security and a scale ability and stability perspective and they do give us a very good way to talk to customers about becoming more security. You know, I think the product success we've had with Windows Server 2003 to date is a good example. And we would expect that as customers really go through the environment that they have deployed currently, that our new products stack up quite well in helping them think about security.  

So I think the product set is a good one. And then the business process and education is a second key thing we've got to do.  

Okay.  

BRIAN SKIBA: But in terms of, you know, the success rate of getting people to migrate from 9x and NT over to sort of XP like platform, on the client side, are you making any conscious efforts, explicitly towards that?  

JOHN CONNORS: Oh, you bet. In terms of the prescriptive guidance in terms of what a security environment looks like, the XP environment, the Server 2003 environment, the Exchange 2003 environment, is an explicit part of that. And we'll just have to see how we do migrating as part of a security effort, or as part of a broader product migration effort.  

BRIAN SKIBA: Okay. Thank you.  

OPERATOR: Kim Peterson you may ask your question.  

KIM PETERSON, ANALYST: Yes, hi, can you talk a little bit about head count including head counts specifically in Washington state?  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, we don't have anything to update today, Kim. Head count has grown for the company in total and has also grown in Washington state.  

KIM PETERSON: You can't give specific numbers?  

JOHN CONNORS: No, don't have anything to update today.  

KIM PETERSON: Okay. Thanks.  

CURT ANDERSON: Okay. Thank you, everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions at all, please feel free to call me directly or anyone on the IR team and we would be happy to help you. As I mentioned at the top the call the conference call will be available on replay at the our Investor Relations web site at the close of business on October 22, 2004. Officially you can dial in to hear the replay 800-294-3093 and use pass code 6589 or for international calls, dial 402-220-9771. Pass code 6589. The dial in replay will be available through the close of business, October 31, 2003. Thanks again for joining us today.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031106dzan002s5
  


 HD
 Q4  2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
9,021 words
   PD
17 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good afternoon and welcome to Microsoft's earnings release conference call. All lines will be in a listen-only mode until we open for questions and answers. Also, today's call is being recorded. I would like to turn the call over to our first speaker, Mr. John Connors, Chief Financial Officer. Sir, you may begin.  

JOHN CONNORS, CFO, MICROSOFT: Thank you, operator.  

   TD
Before we begin, I want to make an announcement. Krish Srinivasan, our senior director of investor relations, is moving on to a new role in India as general manager, strategic operations. It is a great opportunity for him both personally and professionally. He will transition full-time to his new role after our financial analysts meeting next week. A deep and sincere thank you to Krish for his contribution in leading and building the IR team, and we wish him continued success in his new role. I think he's listening in today from Bangalor. So, thanks, Krish.  

Curt Anderson will be replacing Krish as senior director, investor relations. Most of your already know Curt, as he has been a member the IR team at Microsoft for two years. I am thrilled that he has agreed to take on this new leadership role, and I'm certain you will share my enthusiasm. Now let me turn the call over to Curt.  

CURT ANDERSON, SENIOR DIRECTOR, INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT: Thanks, John.  

Good afternoon, everybody, and thank you all for joining us today. Before we get started, I would also like to offer a heart felt thanks to Krish. He's been a great leader and mentor to the IR team and a great friend. We wish you all the best, Krish.  

This afternoon in addition to John Connors, our Chief Financial Officer, I'm also joined by Scott Di Valerio, vice president and corporate controller, John [INAUDIBLE], the deputy general counsel, and Brad Smith, our corporate counsel. We'll be following our normal format today. Scott will provide some color around our 4th quarter results and John will review our guidance for the fourth quarter and full fiscal year '04. After that we'll take your questions.  

A few housekeeping items and then we can move on to the details. As many of you are aware, our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses and other items. I would encourage you to review that document for more specific information related to products, sales channel, income statement and balance sheet. Scott's comments will largely follow the same outline as the addendum.  

We've posted our earnings release and addendum on our Investor Relations website at  www.microsoft.com/msft. Subsequent to the call we will post a quarterly financial summary slide deck that contains highlights from the quarter and an earnings highlights document that also contains highlights from the call and the Q & A.  

Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. As always, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live web cast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website again at  www.microsoft.com/msft. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on July 17th, 2004.  

This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text are audio of today's call is also not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft.  

We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release and the comments made during this conference call and in the management discussion and analysis section of our 2003 Form 10-Qs, our 2002 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Further, we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements.  

With that, let me begin briefly by calling out the the key results for the quarter. For the quarter ended June 30, 2003, net revenue was $8.07 billion, an 11% increase over revenue of $7.25 billion for the same period in the prior year. Operating income came in at $2.19 billion, which included charges of $796 million primarily related to the settlement of the of the AOL-Time Warner lawsuit. This is compared to operating income of $2.87 billion recorded in the prior year period.  

Diluted earnings per share for the June 2003 quarter were 18 cents, including an after tax charge of 5 cents associated with the legal settlements I just mentioned. Prior years' diluted earnings per share were 14 cents, and that included an after tax investment impairment charge of 7 cents. For the year-ended June 30, 2003, revenue was $32.19 billion, a 13% increase over the $28.37 billion reported in the prior year. Operating income was $13.2 billion compared to $11.91 billion in the prior fiscal year, as well. Diluted earnings per share were 92 cents, which included after tax charges for an investment impairment of 7 cents, charges related to legal settlements of 6 cents and a one-time tax benefit of 1 cent. This is compared to 70 cents in the prior year, which included after tax charges for investment impairments of 26 cents, charges related to legal settlements of 4 cents, and a gain on the sale of Expedia of 8 cents.  

With that, let me now turn it over to Scott for a more detailed discussion of the results.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO, CORPORATE VP, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Curt. Good afternoon, everybody. As Curt mentioned, our press release includes an addendum which gives a more comprehensive overview of our financial results for the quarter. And I would encourage you to review that information. I would, however, like to at this time to highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. All growth comparisons I mention will be comparable to the comparable quarter of last year. Let me start by giving you an overview of the quarter, then I will follow on with some more specifics around how each of our seven businesses performed.  

From a revenue perspective we had a strong quarter with net revenue up 11% to $8.07 billion. Reported revenue also benefited from favorable foreign exchange rates. Had rates been constant with the prior year, revenue would have been approximately $255 million lower.  

In terms of the key business drivers, PC units had low to mid single digit growth, while server unit growth was just shy of double digits. Both multi-year and license-only billings grew from the prior year with enterprise agreements and government deals driving the majority of the growth. Corporate customers continued to move to multi-year contracts as our sales force executed well to close out the fiscal year. This contributed to the approximately $480 million sequential growth in unearned revenue, which was higher than we had expected.  

Operating expenses came in at $5.87 billion, which included legal charges of $796 million, primarily related to the AOL-Time Warner lawsuit, which we announced in May. As a result, operating income was $2.19 billion.  

Investment income totaled $689 million. Net income for the quarter was $1.92 billion with diluted earnings per share of 18 cents, including 5 cents for legal charges.  

Recognition of unearned revenue related to multi-year licensing agreements during the quarter accounted for approximately 28% of total revenues. This compares to 22% in the December quarter and 26% in the March quarter. In our addendum we provide further details about how this deferred revenue will be earned out during the next four quarters. Now let me take a minute to provide some color around PC demands.  

Now let me take a minute to provide some color around PC demands. We estimate total PC unit shipments worldwide grew low to single -- mid single digits during the quarter. North America and EMEA both showed low to mid single digit growth, and the Asia-Pacific region excluding Japan showed mid single to double-digit growth. Japan continued to struggle, showing a mid single digit decline, and Latin America also showed a slight decline.  

Now let me discuss our business segments in a little more detail. Revenue from the client business was $2.53 billion, up 4% on a year-over-year basis. Revenue came in at the low end of our range consistent with the underlying PC unit growth. The mix of professional versions of Windows was strong at 62% compared to 60% in June 2002 and 40% in June 2001. As you can see, we're looking at tough comps relating to mix, and therefore expect the client business to track much closer to PC rates going forward.  

Revenue from server platforms grew 17% to $1.93 billion. Despite the tough market, Windows, Sequel and Exchange servers all grew in excess of 20% with strong enterprise agreement, government and academic billings during the quarter. Server platforms unearned revenue increased nearly $300 million sequentially, with Sequel posting record billings during the quarter. Additionally, all three product lines have been selling at an increasingly higher percentage of high-end versions as we continue to increase penetration in the enterprise market. [INAUDIBLE] Corporation, Verisign and the U.S. army all acquired Microsoft server software this quarter. Finally, as in prior quarters, we saw strong growth in server OEM sales as unit growth and Intel-based servers continues to outpace overall market growth.  

Information worker revenue was up 8% this quarter to $2.35 billion, primarily due to the earn back of previously deferred revenue relating to a large volume of contracts signed earlier in the year. During the quarter information worker recorded solid billings from both multi-year and license only sales with the largest growth from enterprise agreements and government deals. We also saw strength in new and renewal billings, and the percentage of customers purchasing multi-year deals continues to increase as we add value to our software insurance programs. Additionally, despite a tough environment in Japan, our preinstalled Office business net market showed growth for the first time in several quarters.  

Revenue from business solutions was $179 million this quarter. While the year-over-year growth is primarily due to the acquisition of NaVision during the first quarter of this fiscal year, we also saw good organic growth specifically across NaVision product lines and EMEA. Business solutions added over 4200 customers during the quarter, and we continue to see strong interest in our new Microsoft CRM product.  

MSN had a record revenue quarter with 25% growth, coming in well above our expectations of low single digit growth. Revenue was driven by the 48% growth in advertising in the quarter as well as growth in subscription revenue. This quarter's increase in advertising revenue was due both to the strength and performance-based advertising as well as brand advertising on the MSN network. At the end of the quarter, MSN had 8.6 million subscriptions, including both access and our premium services, which is down slightly sequentially from last quarter. We continue to see churn of customers in our narrow-bounds base due to promotional subs turning off their agreements and subscribers moving toward broadband. This churn is somewhat offset by subscribers to our other premium services, including our Internet software subscription and Hotmail extra storage.  

Now let me turn to home and entertainment. Higher than forecasted Xbox console sales drove a 8% increase in home entertainment revenue to $483 million. We are very pleased to have ended this year having sold 9.4 million console units worldwide since launch, with 6.2 million in North America, 2.2 million in EMEA and 1 million in Asia-Pacific. This means that in the past year we sold over 5.5 million consoles. In addition, Xbox live continued to gain momentum with over 500,000 subscribers worldwide participating in more than 1 million game sessions every week. Game sales have also continued to be solid with a [INAUDIBLE] detach rate of 5.4 in the U.S., according to the May NPD data and worldwide attach rate approaching 5. And finally, revenue from our mobile and embedded devices business grew to 44 million on strong results from our pocket PC and map point products.  

Now let me talk about the rest of the income statement. As I mentioned earlier, total operating expenses were $5.87 billion, which included legal charges of $796 million primarily related to the settlement of the AOL-Time Warner lawsuit. Cost of revenue decreased 10% primarily due to lower Xbox console units sold over last year's comparable quarter.  

The balance of operating expenses increased $1.62 billion, including the legal charges previously mentioned. This increase was higher than expected due to some additional approved investments in the small and medium business space, higher than anticipated sales compensation, initial costs associated with improvements to software assurance, costs associated with the place work close, and the higher than anticipated impact from foreign currency.  

Operating income was $2.19 billion, including the $796 million legal charges, a 24% decline from the prior year. Operating income saw better gross margins offset by higher operating expenses during the quarter.  

Investment income of $689 million was stronger than we expected primarily due to improved market conditions that resulted in higher gains on the sales of investments during the quarter. Our effective tax rate remained at 33% for this quarter.  

Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet. Cash flow from operations decreased to $2.7 billion as we had the $750 million payment for our legal settlement with AOL-Time Warner this quarter. Cash used for stock buy backs totalled $1.2 million this quarter, and we spent right around $6.5 billion this year buying back our stock.  

On the balance sheet, total assets were $79.6 billion and stockholders' equity was $61 billion at the end of June. Cash and short-term investments totalled just over $49 billion, up nearly $2.9 billion from last quarter. Accounts receivable increased sequentially $1.1 billion, consistent with the seasonal trends we've seen in the past. DSO was at 55 days compared to 58 days in the prior year June quarter. As we usually point out, our DSO computation includes charges in unearned revenue in the average sales numbers, so it is consistent with what is included in receivables.  

Equity and other investments improved $640 million sequentially, primarily due to the improved market conditions. Also as mentioned earlier, our unearned revenue balance increased sequentially about $480 million to $9 billion. We saw strong billings of both multi-year and license only deals primarily in the information, worker and server platforms business. Although we still have some tough billed revenue comparisons coming up, we think most of last summer's pull forward billings is finally behind us. Unearned revenue relating to undelivered elements was flat sequentially.  

Finally, I'd like to point out our average diluted weighted shares outstanding decreased for the fifth consecutive quarter to 10.862 billion shares. We continue to actively manage share dilution through our various buy back programs, and this quarter we've repurchased over 48 million shares, bringing total repurchases for the fiscal year to 238 million shares.  

Before I turn it over to John, I want to discuss two important accounting items. First, as noted in our new compensation of plan announced on July 8th, we will include equity compensation expense in our financial statements beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2004 for both previously granted options and the stock awards. Going forward, comparable period financial statements will reflect equity compensation expenses and will be consistent with the amounts reflected in FAS 123 disclosures provide in prior quarters.  

Second, during the quarter our estimates of both product lives and percentage of revenue recorded as unearned relating to the undelivered elements in Windows and Office product sales changed. As a result, we will defer a smaller percentage of revenue at the time of sale, reducing the amount recording in unearned revenue. Additionally, the product life cycle over which we amortized the unearned revenue has increased. These changes resulted in a shift in the balance sheet of approximately $250 million of short-term unearned revenue to long-term unearned. Please refer to the addendum for further details.  

So, let me now turn it back to Curt and John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, Scott. I'd now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and guidance. John?  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Scott and Curt, and good afternoon again, everyone.  

Before I make my customary comments on the results for 2003 and give our guidance for the September quarter and full fiscal year 2004, let me make a few comments on the reporting changes that Scott just outlined. The guidance that I will give shortly includes an estimate of the total equity compensation expense for the quarter and the full fiscal year. The estimate includes the impact of previously granted options and stock awards that we expect to grant in September as part of our annual equity compensation program. The estimated impact of adopting the expense provisions of FAS 123 will result in approximately $980 million in additional operating expense for the first quarter of 2004 and approximately $3.92 billion for the full year.  

We have not included any impact of the option transfer program with JP Morgan that we outlined last week. We are still finalizing the program, and we will not know its impact until the program is approved and then executed. There will be no impact to our cash flows from this accounting change independent of buy back activity. Going forward, we will continue to earn a stock option tax benefit from the exercise of previously granted options. In addition, we will receive a tax benefit from the stock awards as they vest.  

Additionally, the change in assumptions regarding the unearned revenue percentages and product lives on Windows and Office is reflected in our revenue guidance. The change will result in recognizing approximately 90 million in additional revenue for the first quarter and approximately 400 million for the full fiscal year. The revenue effect applies roughly two-thirds to client and one-third to the information worker segment.  

Okay. Now let me start with a few key points for the quarter and the fiscal year that just ended. The past year was another tough one for our industry. It was characterized by tight IT spending budgets, geopolitical uncertainty and generally weak economic conditions, particularly in the Euro zone and Japan. Despite all of the challenges, we had a very solid year on an absolute basis and very good results relatively speaking. Additionally, I would characterize our fourth quarter sales results as encouraging.  

PC demand for the fourth quarter was just about where we expected, while server units were a little better. As you can see from our unearned balance, we had a good quarter in our multi-year licensing business. Billed enterprise agreements were strong sequentially and year-over-year, with new anniversary and renewal billings all contributing to the growth. MSN had a record revenue quarter, and we surpassed our guidance on Xbox console sales for the year.  

We are especially pleased with the progress that our emerging businesses have made over the past 12 months in terms of revenue growth, market share and progress in trends towards profitability. The rest of our businesses performed on par or better than we had expected on revenues. Expenses were roughly in line with our guidance with the exception of sales and marketing in the fourth quarter, which was higher than forecasted for the reasons Scott enumerated, and also I think we just missed the forecast a little bit. EPS was in line with our guidance.  

Looking ahead, while we did see indications that the environment may have stabilized over the course of the fourth quarter, IT budgets remain tight and customers are more focused on cost control than investment. Therefore, our guidance does not take into account any market improvement in the macroeconomic environment in the short term.  

For full year fiscal year '04, we are keeping our PC forecast relatively unchanged from the guidance we gave you in April of mid single digits. As we saw in fiscal 2003, we expect the business segment to do a little better than consumer, probably a point better over the course of the year. For the first quarter we are looking for low single digit growth in PC unit shipments.  

For the full year 2004 we continued to believe, as we said last quarter, that the server market has the potential to improve a little over 2003 with growth in the mid to upper single digits. This represents a rollup of both Intel and proprietary UNIX hardware, and we expect to see Intel-based servers continued continue to outgrow proprietary UNIX. For the first quarter we're looking for server shipments in the mid to upper single digit growth range.  

Before turning to revenue, please keep in mind a few things. First, our previous forecast was made prior to closing the FY '04 business plan. Seconds, FY '03, and specifically the first quarter, are going to provide tough comparables due to the effects of licensing 6.0, the billing transition that took place in our OEM business in Q1, and the dramatic mix shift to Windows XP Professional over the last 18 months. Third and finally, the reporting changes that Scott and I discussed earlier are reflected in the guidance to follow. Unless I specifically mention otherwise, all comparisons refer to the same period in the prior year.  

Net revenue for fiscal year 2004 should be in the range of 34.2 to 34.9 billion, up 6 to 9%. Net revenue for the September quarter should be in the range of 7.9 to 8.1 billion, up 3 to 4%.  

Now let me break this guidance down by segments. Starting with client, full fiscal year revenue should grow into mid single digits. For the first quarter, we expect client revenue to decline 6 to 7%. The year-over-year comparison for the first quarter is made more difficult due to the billing transition that took place in the first quarter of 2003, which resulted in non-recurring revenue of roughly 150 million. Overall, our guidance is consistent with our expectations for PC shipments and our view that we will not see the same benefit from increases in the mix of Windows XP Professional licenses sold that we saw in 2003.  

Server platforms revenue should continue to grow nicely, with full year growth rates of 8 to 12%. In the first quarter revenue should grow between 10 to 15%. Our server products have been gaining market share in a tough environment, and we expect to continue to do that going forward. We have a great product pipeline for our customers that includes the newly-launched Windows Server 2003, Exchange 2003, which was just released to manufacturing at the end of June, and the upcoming Small Business Server 2003 targeted at the small and mid-markets.  

Information worker revenue should be up roughly 10% for the full year and 5% for the first quarter. The Office 2003 system of products will be available later this year, and we expect that customers across every sales segment will find the new product offerings compelling. Internally here at Microsoft, we have rolled out the Office 2003 system quite broadly. The product has made noticeable impact on personal productivity, increased team work and collaboration sites, and has shown reductions in IT costs. There's something good for every scenario of use in this breakthrough product set.  

Revenue from business solutions should be between 700 and 750 million for the full fiscal year and roughly 140 million in the September quarter. We completed the purchase of NaVision one year ago, and we feel very good about the progress we have made to date in integrating our teams. We have growing customers and new license revenue at envious rates. We will continue to invest heavily in our products and in our channel partners in this segment, as we see a great growth opportunity over the long-term.  

MSN revenue growth is likely to decline in the mid single digits for the full year, and increase in the low double digits for the first quarter. Due to the decline in narrow band broadly speaking, we expect that the subscriber base will continue to come down over the course of the year, making revenue growth difficult for the subscription part of the MSN business. However, the overall quality of our subscriber base will continue to improve with a persistent focus on profitability going forward. In addition, we do expect that solid advertising growth should offset some of the decline in subscription revenues.  

Mobile and imbedded devices, formerly CE Mobility, revenue should be over 200 million for the full year and just over 40 million for the first quarter. This represents growth of over 40% for the full year.  

Home and entertainment revenue for the full fiscal year should be up just slightly over last year, with roughly 530 million in revenue expected in the September quarter. By the end of fiscal year 2004, we expect to have sold between 14.5 and 16 million Xbox consoles since product launch, and we expect to have one million Xbox live subscribers, doubling our number today. In addition, we anticipate having over 400 games available for the platform at the end of the calendar year. We will continue to focus on making share gains and offering compelling new games for the platform while improving margins in the business. We think we are well-positioned for FY '04 and beyond to continue to grow this important platform asset in the home.  

For the past three quarters I have given you some directional thoughts on the unearned balance, given the complexity of modeling our business as we transitioned to the new licensing model. We think that the unearned balance in the first quarter should trend down sequentially roughly 200 to 300 million due to seasonality in the September quarter.  

Turning now to the rest of the P&L. As a reminder, all of our guidance on cost of goods sold and operating expenses includes equity compensation as a result of our adoption of FAS 123 beginning July 1st of fiscal 2004. The breakdown of the equity compensation expense by line item is roughly equivalent to that in the addendum for the year 2003. For better comparability, I would urge you to compare the guidance below to the accounting presentation found in the addendum which shows the impact of equity compensation on prior years' financial statements. And again let me reiterate we have not included any equity compensation expense from the J. P. Morgan option transfer program.  

Cost of revenue should be between 18 and 19% of net revenue for the full year and just under 17% of net revenue for the September quarter. Research and development expenses are likely to be between 20 and 21% of net revenue for the full year, and the same percentage for the September quarter. Sales and marketing expenses should come in around 23 to 24% of net revenue for the full year and just about 20% for the September quarter. Similar to fiscal year 2003, we have many large product launches in 2004, including Office 2003 and Exchange 2003.  

As I mentioned last quarter, we will continue to invest in FY '04 in partner recruitment and development as well as broad-based demand creation. Additionally, we are making focused investments in our SA value and customer satisfaction programs as well as a significant investment worldwide in the public and academic sectors. These investments come at the expense of short-term profitability. However, we firmly believe these investments will produce long-term benefits.  

Finally, general and administrative expenses should be between 4 to 5% of net revenue for both the full year and the first quarter. So, in total operating expenses should be approximately 48% of net revenue for the full year and just under 45% for the first quarter. This drives an operating income range of 11.3 to 11.6 billion for the full fiscal year and 3 to 3.1 billion for the first quarter.  

Investment income should be approximately 2.4 billion for the full year and 600 million for the first quarter. The guidance for the full year is a little higher than we thought in April due to improved market conditions generally.  

With an effective tax rate of 33% and a projected share count of roughly 10.7 billion shares for both the full year and the quarter, we arrive at fully diluted EPS guidance of 85 to 87 cents for the full fiscal year and a fully diluted earnings per share of 23 cents for the September quarter. Again, both numbers reflect the changes to reporting that we talked about earlier.  

I wanted to share a few additional thoughts on fiscal year 2004 before I turn to key risks and opportunities we face as a company. We are leaving 2003 very well positioned in all of our seven businesses. Over the past year we have gained market share across our business units and penetrated even further into the enterprise after a great year in our server business. We feel very good about our competitive position heading into 2004.  

Going forward in fiscal year '04, we may not be helped by some of the key drivers of our results in FY '03. I want to make sure that I bring those to your attention once again as you think about our business.  

First, the benefit we saw from the mixed shift to Windows XP Professional will be less impactful going forward. Second, we may or may not see the foreign exchange movement we saw this year. Third, we will not have licensing 6.0 transition effect that significantly benefited FY '03.  

A few weeks back Steve Ballmer laid out his long-term business plan in a companywide e-mail to ensure we remain as successful for the next 10 years as we have over the past 25-plus years. He went over the challenges we face and how we need to respond if we are to meet those challenges as we have numerous times in the past. You will hear more about this next week at our analysts meeting. But we believe that all of these changes are creating an environment where every employee is laser-focused on achieving long-term success, and we believe that is good alignment with shareholders.  

Now, as I usually do, let me outline for you some key risks and drivers for our business. The general economic environment is risk and driver 1. Linux and non-commercial software is risk number 2. Growing new billings against a large base in a tight spend environment is number 3. Litigation is generally a fourth risk. And finally, as we've shared with you in the past, executing with excellence on multiple fronts is the last risk.  

So, in closing, I look forward to seeing many of you next week at our financial analysts meeting here in Redmond, where we will get a chance to share our business and product plans in greater detail. As I mentioned last quarter, we will be reviewing our current capital management strategy at the financial analysts meeting. We aren't going to be formally announcing a new policy today or at the financial analysts meeting.  

Our current policy remains intact; that is, we will continue to manage our incremental dilution and maintain significant funds to seek opportunities to acquire key technologies as well as to cover our considerable legal and business risks. At FAM we will provide you some insight into our current portfolio management strategy and results as well as give you an opportunity to provide input on the range of options we should consider once our legal and business risks are sufficiently behind us. For those of you who won't attend FAM in person, it will be webcast on our website on July 24th, and we hope you will listen in as it promises to be a great day. With that, let me turn it over to Curt for questions.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thanks, John. Operator, we would like to now proceed to questions. We'll try to accommodate as many of your questions as possible, so please limit yourself to one question.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. At this time, if you would like to ask a question, you may press star followed by 1. You will be announced by name prior to your question. Please press star 2 to withdraw your question. Our first question comes from Charles DiBona. Please state your company.  

CHARLES DIBONA, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Charlie DiBona with Sanford Bernstein. Could we delve a little bit into the marketing expenses which are up quite dramatically in this quarter? I'm wondering to what extent, particularly around something like Office 2003, we might have seen a pull forward of expenses out of Q1? And also, to what extent we're looking at sort of a structural increase here in our ongoing marketing expenses?  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks, Charlie. You know, Scott enumerated some of the items. I'll repeat. First of all, we probably missed on our forecast a bit in that we were a little too conservative in the CFO office about what we thought the year would end up given what we were spending relative to forecast in some prior quarters. So, it was just not as precise a forecast as it could be. Secondly, we did have a number of items that when we went into the quarter and provided guidance, we had not planned. Specifically around the small and mid-sized business market we invested for some accelerator activities once Orlando got in place. We also had slightly higher compensation as a result of hitting higher billed attainment levels than we forecasted. And then finally, we did have some accelerated marketing expense in terms of what we would have expected to see in the fourth quarter versus the first. The final thing would be, I think, that we did see a pretty dramatic move in foreign currency that helped us in revenue, but we also spend the biggest percentage of our marketing budget in the fourth quarter everywhere in the world, including the regions. So, there's some expense impact there. In general, the majority of the expenses are variable; that is, they're either marketing investments, partner investments or they're investments in infrastructure for businesses. The head count numbers weren't a huge part of the increase. They're mostly variable. So, I wouldn't characterize them as fixed costs long-term that permanently change the cost structure. I would characterize them as more discretionary and variable in the quarter.  

CHARLES DIBONA: Quickly, also, unearned revenues off the balance sheet, what happened there?  

JOHN CONNORS: We were -- you know, going into the quarter we were, you know, a little cautious given where things were with the economy and from a geopolitical perspective. We ended up closing the quarter quite strong, particularly the month of June. New EAs, anniversary and renewal EAs were quite good. Select annuity was pretty strong. Open probably a little less so. Then finally, we had a terrific, terrific quarter and month of June in the government sector in nearly every geography of the world.  

CHARLES DIBONA: Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Bob Austrian, your line is open.  

BOB AUSTRIAN, ANALYST, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: I wanted to come to the so-called reporting changes, in particular the change in the deferred revenue allocation, John. You mentioned that as a result of that you all experienced about 400 million in revenue embedded in your forecast for '04. Is that a similar amount that would flow into operating income, or are there substantial shifts to match that are otherwise, you know, spread across in the expense categories?  

JOHN CONNORS: If you -- if you're trying to reconcile our guidance from April for FY '04 to our guidance today, Bob, the 400 million was not in revenue, and it's pretty much -- should be considered an incremental revenue increase as well as operating income. We do have some increase in other revenue areas, some from FX, some from finalizing our plans, and then we do have higher expenses than we thought we would have early in our planning process. Most notably around our SA value program, we ramped up what we thought the necessary components of that were gonna be. We're gonna have to spend real heavily in IT infrastructure for SA value in the next year, as well as some significant investments in the small and mid-sized business market, and then finally the largest other area where we had a change in expense from FY '04 guidance in April to today would be in the level of investment we're making in people and programs in the academic and public sector. So, you know, if you're reconciling not all the revenue increase from the April guidance to today drops to operating income.  

BOB AUSTRIAN: Thanks. And just a clarification on the prior question when it came to deferred. Is there any comment you can add as it relates capturing the renewal of the UA customers as they roll off? I know that's coming in the next several quarters.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, if you'll -- both the SA attach and the UA renewal over the next couple of quarters we're hard at work on. For SA attach it's about where we thought it would be, both for select and open. For the UA renewal, it's probably too early to tell. I think the best gauge of how we're doing is talking to customers or channel partners about the value of the SA program. We rolled that out as a trial to, if I remember correctly, 1100 customers July 1st, and the early indications are generally pretty darn positive. So, the best would be what do partners and some customers think about the increased value under SA.  

BOB AUSTRIAN: Thank you, John.  

CURT ANDERSON: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund, your line is open.  

RICK SHERLUND, ANALYST, GOLDMAN SACHS: Just a clarification in follow-up to Bob's question on the change in deferred, why are you doing that? And also, did I hear you correctly that you said you're not going to discuss the cash utilization issue at the analysts meeting next week?  

JOHN CONNORS: Let me take the second one, and then I'll turn over to Scott to give you the accounting technicality on the first. We are not going to have a dividend program change or a stock buy back commitment program to announce at the financial analysts meeting. We really have to get through a couple of very significant legal issues, both in terms of what the financial impact could be and the business model impact could be, most notably the EU as well as the Sun antitrust case. We don't feel it would be prudent to commit to a long-term program until we see our way through those. What we do want to do, though, Rick, is give investors a much -- allocate more time at the analyst meeting for analysts and investors on how we manage the portfolio and what the portfolio return has been historically and currently vis-a-vis reported accounting because the accounting does include investment impairments, particularly in the cable and telecom stock area. And so, we want to give a much broader time allocation to the management of that portfolio. What we're doing to grow it and protect it. And then we do want to discuss the range of things that we have heard from analysts and investors on what to do when we -- when we are able to see our way clear. And we do hear the angst that many shareholders, and we have read pretty much what everybody's written. So, hopefully it will be a good forum for input. Let me turn over to Scott to give a brief run down of the technicalities of the accounting change around the deferred income.  

SCOTT DI VALERIO: Thanks, John. What we do every quarter is actually analyze the product at percentages that we use as well as the product life cycle. And we, in order to -- when you do that, which we did in the fourth quarter, you take into account a number of factors, including the time between product -- the historical product life cycles. And so, what we did this quarter, and the reason why it may change this quarter is we had noted a change both in the amount of percentage of deferral that we needed to do as well as the timing that we bring revenue in across the cycle because our launches have been extending out over the past year or so. And so, basically it's an analysis that we do each quarter, and it's a -- it's a refinement of an estimate, basically.  

CURT ANDERSON: Next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Mary Meeker, your line is open.  

MARY MEEKER, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I just have a couple of quick questions. John, can you drill down a little more on the investment gains in the quarter? And when you look out to '04, you mentioned that we shouldn't expect the kind of four X gains that you had in the quarter just reported. But can you give us a sense of what you have factored into that model, and if I may ask the fiscal '05 questions, it looks like the growth from the server business and the MSN business was a little better than expected. You noted that the emerging businesses were doing pretty well. I guess it seems to us that that could bode well for an acceleration in revenue growth in fiscal '05. And with three questions, hopefully I'll get an answer to one.  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, it's hard to say what fiscal '05 will be. If we do as good a job in each of the businesses in '04 we've done in '03 and the economy lifts, it will lift ours, as well. And I think the other thing, in the businesses that are losing money, we do have a pretty intense focus on how do we improve their profit profile. In terms of the investment income in the quarter, and, therefore, for fiscal year '04, we saw good results on the interest front. Secondly, we had a nice quarter with respect to our portfolio performance. And then finally, the impairment level was pretty low. In general the mark to market on that portfolio was up considerably over its cost basis, and then also the gains on the portfolio turnover on third party outsourcers has been pretty darn good. So, in general I think as long as the market stays healthy, as it's been the last quarter, we expect the investment income profile to be okay.  

MARY MEEKER: Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator, next question, please.  

OPERATOR: Drew Brosseau, your line is open.  

DREW BROSSEAU, ANALYST, SG COWEN: Thanks. John, I'm having a little trouble reconciling your first quarter guidance to your full year guidance, and I'm wondering if you can talk about either and both the revenue and the margin seasonality that might take place through the year because you're essentially implying in your guidance that every quarter after the first quarter will be lower earnings than the first quarter.  

JOHN CONNORS: You know, I would basically look at it this way, Drew: in the first quarter we have a pretty decent earn back of unearned revenue; and then secondly, our expense expectation for the first quarter is quite a bit lower than the second and the third and fourth. If you look at the majority of our marketing campaigns and our activities, they're much more heavily weighted to the December quarter, and then the half, too. So, I think that would probably explain the majority of it.  

DREW BROSSEAU: Okay. Thank you.  

CURT ANDERSON: Operator, we'll take another question, please.  

OPERATOR: Tiffany Husky, your line is open.  

TIFFANY HUSKY, ANALYST: Thank you. Just to follow up on the dividend, you seem to be focusing on the EU and the Sun litigation. And I guess if you look through the history of this litigation with Sun, one could argue that could go on for years. And is that individual case or that series of litigations really a critical element before paying out a dividend, or is it just more broadly sort of the litigation environment?  

JOHN CONNORS: I think it would be more broadly with those two being significant. The other thing is we still do have 12 of the 17 state class actions unresolved. I think our legal team has done Herculean things to get the one settled we have to date, but we've got two very large ones in the EU and the Sun anti-trust, and then we also have the 12 of 17 state class actions unresolved.  

TIFFANY HUSKY: And just one other quick follow-up. In terms of your information worker assumption, obviously you have a new product coming out. To what extent are you expecting that growth coming from incremental EA deals being signed and also sort of UA deals being renewed under, you know, SA and sort of driving that revenue growth?  

JOHN CONNORS: The information worker business, you know, is really driven for the most part by the licensing business around the world. It's a large EA business as well as a large select business. The open is pretty decent. In terms of growth year-over-year, the small and mid-sized market segment we're expecting good growth, and our assumption is that we do have a pretty high degree of success renewing EAs. It's less dependent on the UA to SA conversion in fiscal year '04, but if we don't see success with that more in '05, that would be troubling.  

TIFFANY HUSKY: Will you have to increase the EAs rather than just opposed to have a higher renewal rate to really get that type of growth?  

JOHN CONNORS: Well, what do you mean by "increase"?  

TIFFANY HUSKY: Add new deals or expand existing deals as opposed to, obviously, you've got a lot of them that are some kind of grandfathered in.  

JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, the majority of the renewed deals, what we're seeing is we're adding a lot more software in total to those EAs. I know that, you know, a good example would be an EA for a company that was historically a desktop deal. It renews with server, with Server Cal, with MSDN. So, what we're seeing increasingly is larger numbers of products added to those contracts as they renew. We also, though, think that the Office 2003 system of products, as users see it, as IT managers see it, as APT developers see it, it's a real breakthrough. There was a great article in CNET today about the use of the product set with the legacy COBAL applications, for example, on mainframes. I think we've got a real winner on our hands.  

OPERATOR: Our final question comes from Jason Maynard.  

JASON MAYNARD, ANALYST, WACHOVIA SECURITIES: Could we dive a little bit into the server business? I'm just trying to get a handle on the good growth you saw. Was that related to the momentum around the product launch, or are we just seeing more stable demand from some of your Enterprise customers?  

JOHN CONNORS: I think it's a variety of things. We had a very, very intense focus in the fourth quarter on demand generation. That was part of the increase in sales marketing expense. If you look at the single largest area where we spent over forecast, it was in the server platform's P&L. I think there's a couple of factors, though. The Intel-based server market was a little bit better in the fourth quarter than we thought it would be. We think it was up about 10% versus we thought it would be up more in the single digits in April. Secondly, Sequel server continued to perform very well. We had about a 34% increase there. Windows server was up about 24. Exchange server came in at over 20%. So, the server -- the big core server products performed quite well. Finally, the professional services side, consulting in Premier, was up about 11%. Then the developer tools training certification was about flat. So, you know, we think it was partly a function of the Intel market being a little better. Part of it's share gains with our platform and part of it was real accelerated activities in the quarter with sales and marketing campaigns.  

JASON MAYNARD: Does this accelerated seals activity cause you to rethink sort of the timing of the NT upgrade opportunity?  

JOHN CONNORS: No. We think that NT upgrade opportunity is still large, vast and long-term. If you look at most folks, you know, it will take them a little bit of time to evaluate Windows Server 2003. It takes some time to do the design and then the rollout, you know, even for the most pedestrian file and print infrastructures, not to mention more complicated directory projects like swapping out Netware for Active Directory. So, that's largely unaffected by our performance in the quarter. I think the other thing to note was the EMEA region and Japan turned in very good performances on the server front relative to where they had stacked up against the United States for most of the year. And hopefully we'll see that continue.  

JASON MAYNARD: Great. Thank you very much.  

JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Jason.  

CURT ANDERSON: Thank you, everybody for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or the IR team directly. This conference call will be available on our replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business July 17th, 2004. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by calling 1-800-308-7816. Use pass code 5834. And for international calls, dial area code 402-220-3837, again using pass code 5834. The dial-in replay will be available through the close of business July 23rd, 2003. Thanks again, everybody, for joining us today. Take care.  

OPERATOR: Thank you. That concludes today's Microsoft conference. You may disconnect at this time.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7h005rg
  


 HD
 Q2  2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,612 words
   PD
16 January 2003
   ET
10:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good afternoon and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Microsoft conference call. Presently, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. If you have a question, press star, then one on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. Should you need assistance, press star, then zero. As a reminder, this call is being recorded at the request of Microsoft for replay purposes. 

 At this time I would like to introduce Mr. Krish Srinivasan, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin. 

   TD
 KRISH SRINIVASAN, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks Katie. Good afternoon everyone, and thank you all for joining us today. Today I'm joined by John Connors, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Scott Boggs, Vice President and corporate controller, and Brad Smith, Senior Vice President to Law and Corporate Affairs. 

 As in past calls, Scott Boggs will cover the results of the quarter after which John will review the guidance for the third quarter and the full fiscal year. After that, as always, we will take your questions. Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. I would encourage you to review that document for more specific information related to our results. 

 Additionally, following the call today, we will post a deck of supplies on the investor relations website that summarizes the results discussed today. Look for that along with the replay of the conference call. We have quite a few financial topics to cover today, so I'll move quickly through some housekeeping items. Today's call will be recorded. If you choose to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. 

 Also, a live webcast of today's call is available at the Microsoft investor relations website, www.microsoft.com/msft. The replay of today's call will be available through the close of business on the website through Friday, January 24th. This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaty. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft. We will be making statements in this call that are forward looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, in the comments made during this conference call, and in the management discussion and analysis section of the company's annual form 10K, quarterly form 10Q, and other reports and filings with the SEC. Further, we do not undertake any duty to update any forward looking statement. With that out of the way, let's - begin briefly by calling on the key results of the quarter. 

 For the quarter ended December 31, 2002, net revenue was $8.54b, a 10% increase over the $7.74b recorded in the prior year. Operating income for the quarter totaled $3.26b, compared to $2.84b in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share was $0.47, which includes a post tax charge of $0.05 related to investment impairment recognized in the quarter, $0.03 related to the company's estimate of the cost of resolving pending class action lawsuits, and a two cent credit related to a favorable tax ruling. This compares with EPS of $0.41 in the prior year, which included $0.08 related to the company's estimate of class action lawsuit costs. 

 Finally, let me touch on two items that were covered in a separate press release today. We were very excited today to announce an annual dividend and a two for one split on the common stock. The dividend payable is $0.16 per share pre-split, $0.08 post-split. More details about the dividend and split as well as the time line of events leading to their execution are available on our website. With that, let me turn it over to Scott Boggs for more detailed discussion of the quarter's results. 

 Scott? 

 SCOTT BOGGS, VP & CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Krish Srinivasan, and good afternoon to everyone. 

 As Krish Srinivasan mentioned, our press release includes an addendum which gives a more comprehensive overview of our financial results for the quarter, and I would encourage you to review that information. I would, however, like to use this time to highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. 

 As usual, all growth comparisons I mention will be to the comparable quarter of last year. From a revenue perspective, we had a record quarter. 2nd quarter revenue grew 10% to $8.54b. In terms of the key business drivers, PC unit volume came in about where we expected, that was flat to slightly up over the same quarter a year ago, and IT spending was a little soft. Billings for new volume license agreements were down as expected as a result of the pull-forward effect related to the July 31 transition to licensing 6.0 that we saw last quarter. However, the client, server platforms, and information worker businesses all benefited from the earn back of previously deferred revenue. Total operating expenses came in at $5.3b. This includes a $210m charge related to our current estimate of the costs for resolving pending state antitrust and unfair competition class action lawsuits. This charge relates to all of the class action lawsuits, including the pending settlement in California we announced last week, and in addition to the $660m charge we took in the second quarter of last year. Excluding this charge, operating expenses came in about $175m better than our expectations, driven by lower cost of revenue as a result of Xbox units coming in at the low end of our range, lower product support and consulting service costs, and lower than expected head count growth. Investment income was $375m, including a charge for other than temporary impairments of $421m. Finally, I would like to point out our tax provisions for this quarter reflect a $126m one-time reduction, related to a favorable court ruling we received last month. Considering all of these items, net income for the quarter was $2.5b or $0.47 per share. 

 Now, let me help you reconcile that to our guidance last quarter. If you add back about $0.03 for the class action lawsuit charge, $0.05 for impairment, and excluding $0.02 benefit for taxes, EPS would have been about $0.07 better than the high end of our guidance of $0.46. 

 Now, let me talk about revenue in a little more detail. As we've discussed over the past several quarters, the shift of a significant portion of our business from periodic single license purchases to multiyear license and maintenance agreements has had a considerable impact on our financial results. The unearned revenue account on our balance sheet has grown appreciably over the last couple of years as customers have shifted their purchasing to multiyear annuity license contracts, but especially in the first fiscal quarter of this year, as many customers decided to sign contracts in advance of the licensing 6.0 transition. 

 This quarter, unearned revenue declined sequentially as expected by $295m to about $8.8b, reflecting both the pull forward effect of the transition to licensing 6.0, and the recognition of previously deferred revenue into the income statement. Recognition of unearned revenue from annuity license accounts for approximately 22% of total revenue this quarter, compared to 23% last quarter. In our addendum, we provide further details about how this deferred revenue will be earned out during the next four quarters. 

 Turning to PC demand, we estimate total PC unit shipments worldwide during the quarter were flat to up slightly. Both EMEA and the Asia Pacific regions showed modest growth, with EMEA growing in the low single digits and APEC growing in the mid single digits. The U.S. declined slightly, Japan was down single digits, and Latin America was down double-digits. Overall, this was just about as we expected, and John will give you our outlook for PC demand for the remainder of the year in a few moments. Revenue from the client business was $2.5b, flat on a year-over-year basis. Professional mix continues to be healthy, coming in at 55% compared to 45% a year ago, and declining sequentially as expected, given the seasonal strength of consumer revenue in the December quarter. We also continue to see market share gains by system builder OEMs, where prices are generally higher due to lower volumes. We also benefited from the earn back of previously deferred revenue related to the large volume of annuity license contracts signed in the 1st quarter. These factors just noted were partially offset by the impact of inventory accumulation at OEMs at the end of Q1 and the year-over-year reduction in the mix of higher-priced retail packaged products from the Windows XP launch just one year ago. We estimate the impact of inventory accumulation at the end of Q1 to be about $100-200m. Since its introduction last year, Windows XP has been the most successful operating system product we've ever launched, with over 90m copies licensed today. 

 Revenue from server platforms grew 12% to $1.76b, slightly better than we expected. This growth was especially satisfying as the anticipated recovery in IT spend seems to be soft. We think there are a couple of factors driving this growth. First, we continue to see healthy demand for our products, despite the soft IT environment. This reflects the ongoing shift to lower cost standard base hardware, and the solid value our software offers relative to high-end, high-priced UNIX alternatives. Sequel server revenue showed healthy double-digit growth compared to the similar quarter last year. This is an environment where the overall database market remains essentially flat. We saw especially strong growth for sequel server 2000 enterprise edition, due in part to strong adoption from U.S. Federal Government agencies, and revenue remains strong from renewals of enterprise agreements with major corporations, such as Coca-Cola, Ernst & Young, and Siemens. 

 Second, we are seeing the benefit of the shift to multi-year annuity license programs as previously deferred revenue is earned back. And finally, we see strong growth in OEM sales of server products, as unit growth in Intel base servers continue to outpace overall market growth by a wide margin, and as more customers purchase Windows, pre-loaded, on Intel-based servers. Turning now to the information worker business. Revenue for this segment was up 8% to $2.29b. Growth in this segment was primarily due to the earn back of previously deferred revenue. Increased mix of professional versions of Office XP sold through the OEM channels and strong academic license sales. 

 Finally, products such as Project and Visio continue to sell well, showing double-digit growth. Just as with our client and server businesses, we continue to look for new and exciting ways to help the information worker become more productive. This quarter we were delighted to launch the tablet PC, which we think will really change the way people work. Revenue from the MSN business was $459m for the quarter, consistent with our expectations. This represents 23% growth year-over-year when you exclude Expedia from the prior year. Advertising continues to be the strong story here, turning in over 40% growth versus a year ago. The success of our performance-based advertising model is not only driving revenue growth, but is allowing us to attract and retain big name customers like Volvo and Lexus. 

 While subscriptions have held steady at just over $9m, we are seeing the number of revenue-generating subscribers increase as subscribers under rebate and promotional plans turn off. This is consistent with our long-term goal of building a healthy base of profitable subscribers. This quarter also saw the successful launch of MSN-8, which is designed to give consumers advanced communication options, improve browsing and online safety features. 

 Now, let me turn to home and entertainment. Revenue grew nearly 40% to $1.33b on solid global performance by Xbox. We're very happy with these results, especially given the fact that overall industry sales were at the lower end of aggressive industry expectations. We have accomplished a great deal with Xbox in just over a year. We've now sold around 8m consoles worldwide, with 5.4m in North America, 1.8m in Europe, and a little over 800,000 in Asia Pacific. Xbox is now clearly number 2 in the North America and European gaming markets. We're also very pleased with game sales for Xbox. 

 And finally, Xbox live is off to a tremendous start. We had over 250,000 subscribers by the end of the quarter, more than double our initial expectation. 

 Let me turn to business solution. Revenue in this segment was $135m this quarter, and including Navision which we acquired this last quarter. We continue to build momentum in this segment. 

 This quarter, Microsoft Business Solutions added over 2,000 new customers across its broad product line. We have also been pleased with customer interests in the Microsoft capital finance program, with over 300 MBS customers already taking advantage of financing arrangements. We are looking forward to the upcoming launch of the Microsoft CRM product in the very near future. We are very excited about the long-term potential of this business. 

 And finally, revenues from our CEN mobility business grew 35% to $22m. Unit volumes and the number of original device manufacturers selling Microsoft pocket PC-based handhelds has grown dramatically over the prior year. We're excited about the early success of this business too. 

 Now let me talk about the rest of the income statement. As I mentioned earlier, total operating expenses were $5.3b, growing 8% over last year. Excluding the 32% increase in cost of revenue, which is primarily due to Xbox production costs, operating expenses decreased 3%. However, if you also exclude the litigation charge of $210m this quarter and the $660m last year, operating expenses grew 13%. This was driven primarily by Xbox marketing and sales and marketing resources. This was actually a little less than we expected, although we think any savings probably represent a timing shift into later quarters. As a result of these expenses growing a little faster than revenue, operating income was just about flat with the prior year when you exclude litigation charges. 

 As I mentioned before, investment income was $375m, excluding the $421m charge for other than temporary impairment, investment income was about $350m better than expected, driven by higher realized gains on sales of investments, and lower, unrealized derivative losses. 

 Finally, our effective tax rate for the quarter was about 29 1/2%, reflecting a one-time $126m adjustment I mentioned earlier. You should assume our effective tax rate for the reminder of FY '03 will return to 33%. Turning now to cash flow on the balance sheet. Cash flow from operations for the quarter was $2.8b, this was down significantly from the record high we saw last quarter, due to the pull-forward of annuity contracts signed during Q1. On a year-to-date basis, cash flow totals $8.9b, up over 28% from last year. 

 On the balance sheet, total assets were $72.3b and stockholders equity was $55.8b at the end of December. Cash and short-term investments totaled just over $43b, up $2.9b from last quarter. Accounts receivable increased sequentially $444m, and DSO was about 53 days, a sequential increase that is normal during the holiday quarter. As usual, our DSO computation includes changes in unearned revenue, so it's consistent with what is included in receivables. 

 Inventory was down $300m sequentially as the September quarter balance reflected the buildup of Xbox consoles and games in advanced holiday selling. 

 Finally, I'm sure many of you have noticed our unearned revenue on the balance sheet declined sequentially by $295m to $8.8b. This is just about what we expected and again reflects the large volume of annuity contracts that were signed in Q1, some of which was pulled forward from Q2. 

 On a year-over-year basis unearned revenue is up about 33%. 

 Before I turn it back to Krish Srinivasan and John, I'd like to point out our average diluted waited shares outstanding again declined this quarter to 5.441b shares. We continue to actively manage shared dilutions through our various buyback programs and this quarter we repurchased over 19m shares for just under $1b. That brings the total repurchase for the first half of the fiscal year to 79m shares up from the 27m shares we purchased in the first half of last year. 

 Krish Srinivasan and John? 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Scott Boggs. With that, I'd now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts and a forecast on guidance. 

 JOHN CONNORS, SVP & CFO, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Scott Boggs and Krish Srinivasan. Good afternoon, everybody. 

 As always, let me begin by reiterating some of the key points from the quarter's results. Once again, we were pleased to deliver solid results in a challenging global economic environment. Particularly notable that this is a record revenue quarter for Microsoft. The demand for personal computers was right about what we expected, and we saw good revenue from Windows and Office. Remember that both of these businesses benefit from the earn back of previously billed contracts in FY '02 and the first quarter of FY '03 as a result of our transition to licensing 6.0. Corporate IT spend continued to be tepid, but we were happy to see our server platform business do well despite that weakness. Windows 2000 servers, Sequel server, and Exchange continue to deliver great value to customers along with the rest of our server product lineup. 

 It is fair to say that we gained share in each server category. Our server business also benefited from the earn back of previously billed contracts. The December quarter is also traditionally a very important quarter for our consumer product business. 

 To that end, we saw strong performance by Xbox, including a lot of excitement for our new Xbox live online gaming service. We also launched a number of breakthrough new products, MSN-8, the Tablet PC, the Windows XP media center, and Windows powered spark phones. All these products and form factors will enable end users to experience a much broader set of computing and productivity scenarios than any of us could have imagined just a few years ago, so we're super excited about this product wave and its long-term potential. As we guided you in the last call, the unearned revenue balance declined sequentially in the quarter, following the tremendous increases in the second half of fiscal 2002, and the first quarter of fiscal 2003. 

 And you should also note that year-over-year that unearned balance is up 33%. If we now turn to the details of the forecast, let me start with our assumptions around macro economic and industry factors. We are still looking for PC shipment growth in the low to mid single digits for the full fiscal year. 

 As I mentioned last quarter, our numbers are a bit lower than those published by many industry analysts, whose forecasts have continued to move closer to ours since the beginning of the year. Our view continues to be that there has not been much change in the health of the PC ecosystem and that things are still pretty soft. For the third quarter we think that PC shipments will mirror the full-year trend and be in the low to mid-single digits. The demand from business customers continues to be challenging. 

 The weakness is mixed across geographies, with the largest challenge being Japan. We do not see robust corporate demand in any large countries. Our forecast assumes soft business demand for the second half of fiscal 2003. Should the global economic environment take a turn for the worse, we will be affected. Should it improve, we certainly expect that it will lift all votes and we've got a lot of votes. 

 Revenue, turning to revenues for the third quarter, we are forecasting top line revenue in the range of $7.7 and $7.8b, up 6-7% over the prior year. For the full year, we are looking for net revenue to be in the range of $31.9-$32.1b. This range is a little lower than our guidance last quarter, and as I go through the individual segments, I will explain to you our go-forward view in detail. This topline number does translate to growth between 12 and 13% over the prior year, on a large base of revenue. This translates to a lot of new business and a lot of new customers. 

 Now, let me breakdown revenue by segments. Starting with Clients, Q3 revenues should be flat sequentially with Q2 and end the year with growth in the low double-digits. This trend assumes that the mix of Windows XP Professional will continue to grow modestly following the seasonal slowdown in the December quarter. Server platforms revenue should also be flat sequentially and end the year with growth in the mid teens. Our server products have been gaining momentum despite the tough business environment, and we expect this will continue. The market for server hardware is not likely to be quite as strong as we expected for the remainder of the year, and we expect that high-end UNIX will fare considerably worse than standard spaced architecture using the Intel platform. In this environment, our products have been able to deliver outstanding value and performance, and we're working hard to keep that lead. 

 Information worker revenue should be up in the mid to upper single digits for the third quarter with full year growth in low double-digits. The sales force is working hard on the pipeline for new business and we're looking forward to the launch of Office 11 later this calendar year. Business solutions revenue should be up sequentially just a little bit, and end the year at a little over $0.5b. We are very excited about the long-term potential of this very young business, and the full-year forecast reflects our ability to get to nice scale if we execute well. 

 MSN revenues are likely to be relatively flat on a sequential basis, with full-year fiscal year '03 growth in the mid-teens, excluding the impact of Expedia in the prior year. The advertising side of MSN is performing nicely. We expect that subscription revenue will be a little lighter than we had forecasted in October, and as a result, our current forecast of MSN in the second half is a little lower than that forecast. CE and mobility revenues for the third quarter should be about $20m and the full year should be about $80m. 

 As I have said before, this is a young business and our products are being met with a lot of excitement. 

 Home and entertainment, we're forecasting the third quarter to be just a little under $0.5b, with full year growth in the high single digits. We aimed to exit fiscal 2003 with life-to-date sales of a little over 9m Xbox consoles worldwide, aided by a very strong portfolio of first and third party titles. Our current half-to-forecast for Xbox is slightly lower than our October guidance, reflecting our view that the worldwide gaming market will be a little weaker than previously thought. This quarter Xbox live will be available in both Japan and Europe. We're seeing a lot of excitement in anticipation of these launches. 

 Now, let's turn to expenses. Cost of revenues should tick down sequentially to just under 17% of net revenue as we come off the consumer heavy December quarter. And for the full year, should be just under 18%. 

 The reduction in cost of revenue is due to lower costs for both MSN and Xbox, given the slightly lower revenue expectation for those products and some good hard work on the cost structure, as well as lower costs in our services and consulting businesses. Research and development expenses for the March quarter should tick up to a little over 16%, as we ramp towards the launch of Windows server 2003, and other summer releases and the associated localization cost for those. This should continue through the fourth quarter and for the full year R&D should be a little over 15%. 

 Sales and marketing expenses should come down a bit from the December quarter to between 18 and 19% for the third quarter, and for the full year should be about 19%. 

 Finally, general and administrative expenses should be between 3 and 4% for the quarter, and for the full fiscal year. In total, operating expenses should be between 38 and 39% of net revenue for the third quarter and about 38% for the full year, leading to operating income results in a range of $3.4-$3.5b for the third quarter, and $14.1-$14.3b for the full fiscal year. 

 Note that the full-year operating income number includes the $210m charge in the current quarter related to the lawsuit Scott previously mentioned. Investment income should trend at about $450m for each of the third and fourth quarters, with a full year number of just over $1.3b. With an effective tax rate of 33%, and an average share count of 5.48b shares pre-split, we arrive at earnings per share of $0.47 or $0.48 for the March quarter, and earnings per share in the range of $1.90 to $1.93 for the full year. The full year assumes an average share count of 5.46b shares. In order to compare this with our prior guidance, you will need to adjust for the items in the current quarters results that we had not previously forecasted, specifically, the investment impairment, the tax credit, and the charge related to the class action lawsuits. 

 With the numbers out of the way, let me take a few minutes to put this forecast in context. Our view of the business and more generally, the technology sector, continues to be very, very positive for the long-term. We are executing well, despite a challenging environment. And we think we're making the right investments for ensuring the long-term health of the company. We also signaled a long-term commitment to shareholders this quarter with the announcement of a dividend and stock split. This is a significant step for Microsoft, and we're pleased to be able to take this step while continuing to make very broad and deep investments in research, sales, and marketing. 

 As always, I want to take a few minutes to share with you how we view the key assumptions and risks built into this forecast. There are at least seven important assumptions you should know. 

 To start with, I want to expand on something I mentioned earlier, building the sales pipeline for fiscal 2003 and beyond. Investors need to fully understand that we expect a sequential decline in unearned revenues for the next quarter and any sequential growth in the fourth quarter is likely to be modest. This is no different from what we told you in the last call, and simply reflects the fact that we saw such a huge surge in billings in the last half of fiscal 2002, and first quarter of fiscal 2003, the trend of which we don't expect to recur. We will continue to add significant resources to our field and partner-led sales efforts for the remainder of the year. We believe these investments won't begin to yield results until fiscal year '04. The third key risk is the economy continues to be relatively shaky, and our forecast assumes no further deterioration on that front in half two. LINUX continues to be a threat to our server business. The ramifications of free software to our business model should be obvious to everybody. 

 Fifth, we are pursuing seven unique business opportunities today, and while we are executing successfully on these today and hiring great leadership, this is no easy feat. If we continue to execute well, the opportunities are great. If not, there's a risk to the outlook. 

 The sixth risk is fiscal year '04 comparables for revenue and profit will be somewhat daunting. We're currently beginning the planning process for setting our FY '04 target. It sure would be great to get a better help from a worldwide economy, and we'll just have to see how that economy evolves. But the comparables for '04 are tough. 

 And finally, we now have more clarity on the legal front following Judge Collar Katelly's (ph) decision in November, and the proposed settlement of the California class action lawsuit. Nonetheless, we still face considerable legal risks today and investors should always be mindful of the risk today and the potential risk going-forward. 

 In closing, I will reiterate that we had a really solid quarter from a P&L perspective, and a great, great quarter from the standpoint of delivering new products and technologies. I think our presence at the computer electronics show speaks for itself. Our sales organization is executing well, and our competitive position in many markets continues to improve. Our view of the future is driven in part by a challenging global economy, and in part by a commitment to making the right investments for fueling the long-term profit growth for the company. As I've said many times before, all of our decisions reflect the long-term view for the business and a candid assessment of our opportunities and risks. We see a very exciting future for this company, driven by a super solid product road map, and a strengthening sales organization, and we believe shareholders will benefit in the long run. 

 With that, now let me turn it to Krish Srinivasan for questions. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Thank you, John. Let's now proceed to the Q & A part of the call. We want to accommodate as many questions as possible, so please, as a courtesy, we ask that you limit yourselves to just one question. 

 Operator, would you please repeat the instructions and take the first question? 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the question and answer portion of today's call. If you have a question, please press star then one on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. If you would like to withdraw your question, press star then two. 

 One moment, please, for the first question. 

 Our first question comes from Don Young with UBS Warburg. Sir, you may ask your question. 

 DON YOUNG, UBS WARBURG: Thank you. And good evening. I was curious if we could look a little bit more at the site licensing and the trends in the movement to multi year licensing if you could describe what that pattern looked like now that the deadline was passed, and give us a feel for the multi year revenue recognition, the multi year contracts as far as Enterprise agreements and selects that were signed and what the trend looked like if you looked at it from the prior quarter to the current quarter. 

 JOHN CONNORS: Thanks, Don. Coming off the September quarter, doing the sales pipeline work was honestly pretty tough because of the amount of business we had booked in the last half of fiscal year '02 and the first quarter of this fiscal year. I think that the sales organization feels like they have a better handle on that pipeline now than in October. And in general, our EA business continued to be the largest by far, and we did see pretty good growth there, and we see a good pipeline both for new and renewals in half two. 

 In terms of the select and open business, billed revenue dropped off quite a bit as we expected. The SA attach rate in both select and open looked okay. We do expect those attach rates to improve over time as companies choose the annuity route, and in addition to that, we have a lot of hard work going on in terms of ensuring we have besides a great product road map, the appropriate program in place for the value of SA. So I think we have better clarity. EA was the strongest, the renewal rates were pretty good, and select and open came in about where we thought. 

 DON YOUNG: Thank you. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Charles DeBona of Sanford Bernstein. You may ask your question. 

 CHARLES DEBONA, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: I wanted to go over the dividends a little bit, and basically the thinking behind sizing it at $0.16 or just $0.08 post-split, especially in relation to your cash flow, operating cash flow levels. 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks, Charlie. You could probably characterize our dividends as a starter dividend. The board has periodically reviewed our capital matters, including our dividend policy. And given that we have moved forward towards resolution on a number of legal issues, we still have a number of significant outstanding, we felt that we had better clarity. 

 In looking at the dividends, we looked at Dow 30 companies, we looked at other tech companies, and we feel what will be over $850m for our first dividend is a significant amount of money, and a meaningful dividend. 

 As we go forward, we'll look at what is our legal environment and risk profile look like. What does R&D look like. What do significant other uses of cash look like, and periodically review that dividend. But if you stack us up against other big tech companies, we're right in the ballpark, and it's a good place to start. 

 CHARLES DEBONA: Okay. Just one quick follow-up on the last question. The off balance sheet unearneds, can you give us a little color on what happened there? 

 JOHN CONNORS: The contracted but not billed was about where we thought it ended the quarter consistent with the unearned that shows up in the balance sheet. So the key thing we're focused on is half two enterprise agreement renewals, closing new enterprise agreements, and really getting the SA value proposition out to customers for both the desktop and server products. 

 CHARLES DEBONA: Thanks very much. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Can we take the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Neil Herman of Lehman brothers, you may ask your question. 

 NEIL HERMAN, LEHMAN BROTHERS: Can you talk a little bit about in terms of your OEM revenues, your mix between XP Professional versus XP Home this quarter, and as an adjunct, if you could talk about what you saw in terms of retail demand and corporate demand for upgrades to XP from other operating systems. 

 JOHN CONNORS: We don't break out the Windows Professional mix by channel distribution. In total, it was about 55% for the quarter. Which was up nicely from the prior year at about 45. In terms of the OEM channel, we saw growth in the system builders segment, retail was down, obviously, year-over-year significantly because the prior year included the launch of Windows XP. And PC UNIX shipments came in about where we thought. We expect that the Windows Professional mix will pick up in the last half of the year as a result of business units shipping more than consumer. 

 Worldwide, we estimate that the overall business market in the second quarter was maybe up a point, and the home market was pretty much flat. The U.S. in total was probably down about a point or so, EMEA was probably up about 3%. Japan was maybe up 3%, and Latin America was down. So we would expect the OEM business to end the year with a good year, and the client business to reflect that as well. 

 NEIL HERMAN: Thank you. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Can we take the next question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Bob Austrian from Banc of America Securities. Sir, you may ask your question. 

 BOB AUSTRIAN, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Two quick questions. One is, John, is there any changes to your head count plans as you articulated them at analyst day now that there's a slightly modified outlook? 

 And second, I wonder if we could spend another minute on the new subscription model. I'm particularly interested in the upgrade advantage which seems to have such an avalanche of demand recently. Can you give us any color on what it takes to get upgrade advantage contracts when they mature to convert into software assurance? Or just walk us through what has to happen there, particularly given the size of UA and the balance sheet and how it scrolls into revenue? 

 JOHN CONNORS: In terms of head count, we're probably a little bit below what we have budgeted and approved for fiscal year '03, but we've made no changes to our head count approval. You know, this is a year that we mentioned early that would be an investment year, and we're working hard on filling the sales force jobs, the developer evangelist jobs, TR&D positions, so the head count approval won't be taken down in half two. 

 In terms of the subscription, if you'll remember, the upgrade advantage was only available up to the transition to licensing 6.0, that upgrade advantage revenue will be recognized for a two-year period after the signing of those contracts. The key thing we've got to work with respect to ensuring that those upgrade advantage customers are convinced that annuity is the right program is two-fold, one is, we've got to continue to deliver great breakthrough products. Windows Server 2003, Office 11, the next generation of our database product on and on and on. 

 The second key thing we've got to do and we must execute successfully is we've got to ensure customers understand the value of SA in terms of the product offering, in terms of product support, in terms of the enterprise cost effectiveness of staying current, and the lower TCO they'll get with certain products. 

 So the UA customers, they're done. That's no longer available. And as they transition off over their two-year cycle, we'll try to move them to SA or the enterprise agreement offer. 

 BOB AUSTRIAN: Thanks, gentlemen. 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Drew Brusoe of SG Cowen. You may ask your question. 

 DREW BRUSOE, SG COWEN: Hi, thanks. John, this is not a completely fair question, but I'm looking for some help in figuring it out. Which is, given that we don't know the precise numbers that are off the balance sheet for the unearned revenue, if we do simple analysis of the bookings, taking the change and unearned that's on the balance sheet, adding it to revenues and comparing that bookings number to a year ago, that number's down about 3% year-to-year. 

 Is that a fair way to assess what the current business activity is? Or is there a better way? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, I think the -- you know, there -- you have to separate the revenue into a couple components, and the way you're doing it is the appropriate parse. 

 First take out the business that is not impacted by multi year contracts, and, therefore, multi year revenue recognition. Xbox, MSN, business solutions in part. CE, and the majority of the client business. 

 And then if you look at information worker as well as server, and you follow the change in that unearned balance over a period of time as we publish in our addendum against reported revenue, you can get a sense for the billings and bookings. I think the best way to look at it is for analysis purposes is not so much quarter to quarter because the anomalies we have as a result of the transition of licensing 6.0. But look at half two of fiscal year '02 and half one of fiscal year '03, and then also the year-over-year comparison, then if you do that and look at each individual segment, you can get a better sense for what new billings are occurring. 

 I will be clear that as we go through the second half of fiscal year '03, and as we get to fiscal year '04, if towards the end of fiscal year '04, if you don't start seeing that unearned balance increasing even modestly or you don't see that unearned balance increasing in FY '04, we have a problem with our underlying growth rate. 

 DREW BRUSOE: Okay. And so you've obviously gone through that exercise, can you give us some initial color, at least on -- you made a comment earlier about fiscal '04 having some tough comparisons, can you add any color to that? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, probably from a macro perspective, if you look at the company and the top-lying revenue growth that we've forecasted this year of 12%, 13%. And you look at the change in operating profit from '02 to '03 and you take out the legal stuff, it's a lot of new profit that we're booking this year. 

 So for us to grow enough absolute revenue and profit in '04 to have relatively good results against others, we're going to have to have a very good year booking new business, and we're going to have to go to work on our costs which we already have started. And finally, we're going to have to see a little bit of help from the economy. 

 If we don't get help from the economy in the form of increased server shipments or increased PC UNIX shipments, we've got a tough comparable issue, so we're now at the process of setting our top down estimates of what we think things will be as we get through the March quarter and we start to get the Q4 forecast, both billed and earned from the field, we'll have a better sense for '04. But everybody should understand that the comps given the nature of this year, and given where the economy is at, look pretty tough right now. 

 DREW BRUSOE: Okay. Thanks a lot, John. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Can we take the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs, you may ask your question. 

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. I have a follow-up on the first question on select and open. John, can you comment on how you saw the month of December? I'm kind of curious whether select and open business, the fact that you had cannibalized the quarter by the July 31 deadline, did you have a sense that it was resuming? 

 You know, upward momentum by the end of the quarter? Can you give us any sense of momentum there? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, the -- clearly the step is -- as we went through the quarter it strengthened and, you know, it's -- there's a combination of factors. I think, you know, one factor is, the sales force came up, you know, a really hard push with customers at the end of FY '02 and the first quarter of '03, but I think there was a little bit of fatigue and mental letdown probably early in the second quarter. 

 The second key thing is, that you do have a significant number of companies who end their year in December, and so we saw the normal seasonal stuff, and then the December month for enterprise agreements is always strong. So the things did strengthen throughout the quarter, and, you know, I think the sales force for half two in terms of build prospects is probably more optimistic than our BG executives, as well as the CEO and CFO. And in part, that is the not knowing what the second half trend will be given the anomaly of the September quarter, and part is, you know, you have a couple of the two largest countries in the world where economic growth is pretty tough. Japan and Germany, and U.S. we haven't seen a lot of confidence yet on what companies think their profits will be, so as you guys published in your Goldman Sachs report that got widely read in terms of IT demand, we probably are more cautious than the sales force. 

 RICK SHERLUND: And does the dividend imply anything about your willingness to be more aggressive repurchasing stock? Because it looked like you were a little slower going with repurchases in the December quarter. 

 JOHN CONNORS: We haven't changed the dividend-- the announcement of the dividend really has not changed, Rick our view of continuing to use our cash for buyback. We'll continue to be an absolute a large purchaser of our stock. 

 In addition, we do have the goal of managing dilution and will use the buyback for that. And as the price, you know, relative to what we think long-term the market might do, will be opportunistic, but we haven't changed our buyback strategy. 

 RICK SHERLUND: Thanks. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Can we take the next question please? 

 OPERATOR: Our next question comes from Chris Shurlakus of Merrill Lynch, you may ask your question. 

 CHRIS SHURLAKUS, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much, couple questions. First, on the gross up, the $210m gross up on the reserve for the class actions, is that primarily considering the California class action? Or have you also increased your assumptions for the other pending state class action? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, good question, Chris. Just for context, a year ago when we booked the $660m accrual, at that time our legal leaders were working with plaintiff lawyers across multiple states on a nationwide settlement. Since we have put forward a proposal that we thought had -- was probable and estimable, we booked what we thought was our best estimate for a nationwide settlement at 660. 

 As we've now moved forward with individual states -- and you'll recall that nationwide settlement was rejected in part because some states objected to it, including California. Now as we move forward with the number of states, we feel that we have a good framework for what the -- those states that have brought cases that were pending settlement or it's probable we'll get to a pending settlement. We've booked an additional $210m. That number is subject to a number of variables over time, and we'll adjust it accordingly. The number that we have on the balance sheet could also and, you know, probably would have to be increased as we get further resolution with a number of states. 

 CHRIS SHURLAKUS: That's helpful, John, thanks. And then if we could talk about EMEA for a second, if you look at the currency translation, the strength of the euro and the Xbox selling which was clearly incremental in the quarter relative to a year ago. How should we view for the second half the EMEA region and can you give us a little color on the enterprise side what you're seeing maybe by country over there? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, first, the FX benefit in the second quarter in EMEA was about eight points, in other words, we reported 32% growth in dollar translated revenue, it would be 24% at constant dollar. The Xbox group absolutely does have an impact on that second quarter of this year. In the third quarter, we're anticipating really a pretty good quarter from EMEA, both in -- across the board, and in terms of the growth that we have forecasted for the server business, EMEA is consistent with that. The U.S. -- EMEA and the U.S. are consistent with that. Maybe a little higher. Asia's a little lower than that average. 

 And in terms of PC demand for the EMEA region, we anticipate that will be positive in the second half of the year, and in the third quarter. So EMEA looks okay, maybe not quite as strong as the U.S. But when you add the FX effect to half two, it's pretty consistent. 

 CHRIS SHURLAKUS: Thanks. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Chris. Operator, can you just take two more questions, please? 

 OPERATOR: Thank You. Our next question comes from Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley. You may ask your question. 

 MARY MEEKER, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks a lot. John, this is kind of a multipart question, but there's been a fair amount of discussion about this '04 on the call. If you isolate the biggest variables for revenue for fiscal '04 due to the economy, the PC unit growth and then how the unearned revenue falls off and how that plays out. The unearned revenue is a fair amount of predictability, at least we know what it was for fiscal '03, the economy is what it is. 

 I wanted to spend a little bit of time talking about PC unit growth. If you've watched the PC industry for the last 20 years, as you guys have, you know there's a certain inflection to the point that occurs when the new operating system gets to 20, 25% of the install base, as you are right now with Windows XP. You know, what happens when the new microprocessor gets to a certain percent of the install base, you know what the average lifecycle is for PCs, as Bill Gates addressed at CES last week, called this the new decade, the digital decade. If you look at the install bases of stuff like MP3 players, digital cameras, and internet usage, combined with the aging of PCs in the corporate marketplace, almost in my opinion, the worst -- the upgrade cycle hasn't occurred, which typically would have occurred by now, in large part because of the economy. One could almost argue the worst this PC upgrade cycle is -- the better the opportunity there is for an upgrade cycle to happen sometime in fiscal '04. So your thoughts on looking out 12 to 18 months for the potential to get some either PC upgrade cycle or more of a PC operating system upgrade cycle and how that may play out for fiscal '04 is a key part of the question. 

 And the other part, the revenue growth rate that is we have, that Dave and I have for fiscal '04 is about 10%. That seems to be in line with what the street is thinking. So far, at least pre-call. Any thoughts on that as a benchmark out there, and whether operating expense growth will grow at a rate that's higher in fiscal '04 than revenue growth, or lower? Thanks a lot. 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, thanks, Mary. First of all, for FY '04, it's too early for us to have a sense of where the revenue could be, in terms of the components, the only other thing I would add, the economy is factor one, PC units is factor two, new -- the unearned balance and what happens with new billings is really three. But also, it's going to be tougher to get the kind of revenue increase out of XBOX that we've seen this year, because the year-over-year comparables will include being in every market, and then MSN has had pretty remarkable revenue growth, but as that base gets larger, we're not going to sustain that. 

 In terms of the PC market, it is -- you know, the longer people have machines in business, particularly, but also in the home, the larger the addressable market of upgrades. We would absolutely anticipate at this point that the PC unit growth rates will be positive in fiscal year '04. We don't know yet how positive they'll be. Some unforeseen geopolitical factor could impact that. But the tidal wave of the upgrade opportunity that people have talked about, we just have not done enough work to forecast that, and I think given where PC units are today, it's hard to know when it could happen. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Mary. Operator, can we take the last question, please? 

 OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Richard Scucosa of Raymond James. Sir, you may ask your question. 

 RICHARD SCUCOSA, RAYMOND JAMES: Yeah, thanks guys. Back on the Xbox, I wanted to know if you could let us know what the attach rate is that you're seeing for the game cartridges how much of that is being developed internally at Microsoft versus outside -- on the outside gamemakers and what you're seeing in terms of adverse to Play Station II. 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yeah, in terms of where we're at in general with Xbox, we feel great. We've now shipped over 8m units in two holiday seasons, and that's not being in every market a year ago at holiday. We also have a really great lineup of titles, there are over 207 titles available at the end of the calendar 2002 holiday, and we have a great lineup coming out this spring. 

 In terms of a tax rate, we've got -- we're right on par with the attach rate. We expected when we launched Xbox, and as we went into the year this year. In terms of the -- where we're at this far into the light, month 13, we are -- we have the highest attach rate of any platform, 13 months into its life, and we -- we don't publish that, but we think we're about a third higher than where the other players were 13 months into it. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Okay. Thanks, Rick. 

 RICHARD SCUCOSA: Okay. Thanks. 

 KRISH SRINIVASAN: Thank you, everybody, for participating in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me or someone in the investor relations team directly. As I mentioned at the top of this call, this will be available on replay on our investor relations website until the close of business next Friday, January 24th. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing 800-839-2808, passcode 7148, or for international calls dial 402-998-0857 passcode 7148. Thank you once again for joining us today. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icmpse : Computer Servers | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware
   NS
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020030117dz1g001e4
  


 HD
 Q1  2003 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
8,935 words
   PD
17 October 2002
   ET
09:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good afternoon, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Microsoft conference call. Presently, all participants are in a listen-only mode. Later we will conduct a question-and-answer session. If you have a question, simply press star then 1 on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. Should you need assistance, press star 0. Due to the large response of today's call, please limit your questions to one. As a reminder this call is being recorded at the request of Microsoft for replay purposes. At this time, I would like to introduce Krishnan Srinivasan, the Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin. 

   TD
 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN, SENIOR DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thank you, Katie. Good afternoon, everyone, and thank you for joining us today. Today I'm joined by John Connors, our Chief Financial Officer, Scott, the Vice President and Corporate Controller and Brad Smith, Senior Vice President for Law and Corporate Affairs. Scott will begin by covering the results for the quarter after which John will review our guidance for the second quarter and the full fiscal year. As always, we will take your questions after that. 

 Our earnings release includes an addendum of financial highlights which contains more detailed information about revenue, operating expenses, and other items. I would encourage you to review that document for more specific information related to products, sales channel, income statement and balance sheet. Scott's comments will largely follow the same outline as the addendum. Additionally, following the call today, we will post a deck of slides on the Investor Relations website that summarizes the results discussed today. Look for that along with the replay of the conference call. A few housekeeping items and then we'll move on to the details. Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you decide to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of that recording. Also, as we have done for quite a while now, shareholders and analysts can listen to a live webcast of today's call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/msft. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on Friday October 25th. The conference call report is also protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use of the transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft. 

 We will be making statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions, that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Finally, actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release, and the comments made during this call and in the management discussion and analysis section of the company's annual Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. Further, we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. 

 With that out of the way, let me begin by briefly calling out the key results for the quarter. For the quarter ended September 30th, 2002, net revenue was $7.75 billion, a 26 percent increase over the $6.13 billion reported in the prior year. Operating income for the quarter totaled $4.05 billion compared to $2.9 billion in the prior year. Diluted earnings per share was 50 cents, which includes a charge of 5 cents related to investment impairments recognized in the quarter. 

 With that, let me turn it over to Scott for more detailed discussion of the results. Scott? 

 SCOTT, VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Krish. As Krish mentioned, our press release includes an addendum which gives a more comprehensive overview of our financial results for the quarter, and I would encourage you to review that information. However, I would like to use this time to highlight a few significant financial and business momentum points. As usual, all growth comparisons I mentioned will be to the comparable quarter of last year. 

 First, let me give you a high-level overview of the quarter, then I'll spend a few minutes talking about some of our business segments in more detail. We reported record revenue of over $7.7 billion for the first quarter, which reflects exceptional growth of 26 percent year-over-year. And almost $700 million above what we had forecasted at the beginning of the quarter. In addition, we were pleased to report double-digit revenue growth across every one of our seven businesses. In terms of macro trends, the PC market came in fairly close to where we expected, and outlook for IT spending did not seem to change in any significant way. However, the real catalyst for these exceptional results was the healthy volume of multi-year licensing deals that were signed as we transitioned to the new licensing 6.0 program. I'll address the impact of this transition in greater detail in a moment. 

 Total operating expenses came in at $3.7 billion, about $300 million better than expected, primarily due to lower costs of revenue from Xbox and product support services-related costs. As a result, total operating income was $4.05 billion, up 40 percent from the prior year. Investment income was $41 million this quarter, and that includes impairments to our investment portfolio of $434 million, as financial markets continued to decline during the quarter. This brings us to the diluted EPS of 50 cents per share, which includes about 5 cents of impairment-related charges. In other words, compared to the guidance we have provided at the end of last quarter of 42 to 43 cents, we came in about 13 cents better on operating income and about 5 cents worse on our investment income. 

 Earlier, I referred to this quarter's results as exceptional. And I want to explain what I meant by that. Certainly, our operating results and growth in unearned revenue exceeded our expectations by a significant margin. However, by exceptional, I also mean there were several significant factors that affected our results this quarter in very positive ways that you should not expect to see continuing. The past four quarters marked a significant change to our business model as many of our corporate customers shifted from periodic single license purchases to multi-year license and maintenance agreements. This shift has and will continue to have a profound effect on our financial results. This quarter, unearned revenues grew nearly $1.4 billion sequentially to $9 billion. This was driven largely by the spike in contract signings made in advance of the July 31st transition deadline and includes a disproportionate surge in upgrade advantage contracts. Each UA contract places two years' worth of billings on the balance sheet at signing to be recognized rateably over the following 24-month period. Beginning last quarter, we provided a new metric to help you gauge the quarterly benefit from the recognition of previously deferred annuity licensing revenue. During this quarter, that recognition accounted for approximately 23 percent of total revenue. This is up sequentially from the 20 percent we reported last quarter. In our addendum, we provide further details about how this deferred revenue will be earned out during the next four quarters. 

 Another exceptional impact on the quarter is related to the transition in how we bill and record revenue from OEM customers. Now, when product is delivered directly to them versus estimating when the OEMs shipped licensed products to their customers as in the past. This quarter, we completed this transition to include all products including preXP versions of Windows and server platform products. Another thing this change does is make us much more subject to OEM inventory dynamics. In this quarter we underestimated the number of licenses that shipped at the end of the September for use in Q2. The final exceptional impact I wanted to mention was from exchange rates. Strength in the Euro and the yen versus last year gave us an additional bump in revenue of about $135 million. While we may see some continued benefit from exchange rates, it's not something we want to count on. 

 Now let me talk about PC demand before delving into the business segments. We estimate total PC shipments worldwide grew just over 4 percent during the quarter. By region, both the US and AMEA saw growth with the United States up in the low single digits and AMEA up in the high single digits. Japan declined by low single digits, slowing the double-digit declines we have seen over the past four quarters. PC demand seems to be about what we expected at the beginning of the year, but I'll let John give you a more detailed outlook during his comments. 

 Now let me discuss our business segments in a little more detail. Revenue from the client business was up 33 percent to $2.85 billion. This was driven by a 34 percent growth in OEM revenue and strong volume licensing by corporate customers as I mentioned earlier. Windows XP adoption continues to be healthy with over 67 million licenses sold to date as more and more customers recognize its value. The mix of Windows professional also continues to grow, with business versions of Windows accounting for 63 percent of all operating systems we sold this quarter. This has been a significant driver of growth over the last five quarters. Other factors that contributed to the strong growth included continued market share gains by system builder channel against multinational OEMs where the prices are higher due to lower volumes and the billing transition for the OEMs I mentioned earlier. 

 Next, let me discuss the server platform segment. First, some of you may have noticed a slight change in classification from our Q1 guidance against what we reported to you for this quarter. In July, we told you that we are planning to include all client access license revenue for our server products with the exception of SQL, in the Information Worker segment. Upon further consideration we decided revenue from those cows should be included in the server segment as this is more consistent with the manner in which we manage other business. Revenue from the server platform grew 14 percent to $1.6 billion. This is about 8 percent above our Q1 guidance when revised for the new classification of cows. There are a couple of factors that drove this performance. We continue to see an increase in servers purchased under multi-year volume license. We believe the popularity of these multi-year license for servers is a testament to the value customers expect to receive over the next two years from a rich product pipeline that includes Windows .NET Server 2003, Titanium, the next version of exchange, and Yukon the next version of SQL Server. 

 Secondly we continue to see a healthy demand for four server products outside of volume license-driven sales activity. For example, SQL Server revenue again grew robustly this quarter. Driven in part by the Enterprise edition of SQL Server which was up just over 50 percent for the quarter. Interestingly, while our primary competitor in this space is citing revenue declines due in part to a shift towards their standard editions, we in fact saw the opposite trend this quarter. We think this is pretty powerful evidence that SQL is gaining market share in the enterprise. Additionally, Windows sevener revenue is up 16 percent, largely driven by OEM sales benefitting from the performance advantage of Intel-based sevener hardware running Windows over non-Intel solutions. Finally, revenue from our developer tools business which includes visual studio.net grew 24 percent this quarter as we benefitted from the large number of MSBN subscriptions we sold after the launch of vs.net last February. 

 Moving to the Information Worker business, revenue for this segment was up 26 percent to $2.27 billion. After the reclassification of cow revenues, this was 13 percent ahead of our prior guidance as sales of office benefitted from the large volume of annuity license as well as strong exchange rates. Other products in the IW segment did quite well, also, including the recently launched project 2002 which grew 41 percent this quarter. 

 Now turning to MSN, revenue from the MSN business turned in significant growth of 23 percent compared to last year, that's when you exclude Expedia revenue from the comparable quarter. Despite a challenging online advertising marketplace, advertising revenue grew over 40 percent for the quarter as more customers recognized the value of MSN's performance-based advertising offerings. Subscription revenue also grew nicely from a combination of a growth in total subscribers to 9 million at the end of the quarter and an increase in average revenue per subscriber. Next week, we will be launching MSN 8, our most significant product upgrade in this space to date MSN 8 offers consumers the most advanced parental controls, spam filters, and enhanced communications features. With more than 300 million unique visitors each month, MSN is still the most popular destination on the Web. Although it is still in the investment phase, we are extremely pleased with the significant headway MSN has made in the last several quarters. 

 Now let me turn to home and entertainment. Revenue from this segment grew to $485 million. This fell shy of our original expectations by about $100 million, largely due to lower-than-expected selling of Xbox consoles in anticipation of the Xbox holiday bundle we announced earlier this week. We do expect that those sales will be made up in the next quarter and our installed base forecast of 9 to 11 million consoles by the end of fiscal year '03 remains unchanged. Revenue from other products in this segment came in about as expected, and we are very pleased with the launch of a number of new products including updated versions of Encarta, Works and our new line of wireless networking products. And looking ahead, Xbox has good momentum going into the holiday with multi-million dollar marketing campaign that includes television and radio campaigns for our big titles, like Blink and Megasalt as well as the launch of Xbox Live and with the holiday bundle we announced earlier this week, consumers can now purchase an Xbox console, controller, and two exclusive Xbox games from Sega all for under $200, a great value for gamers. 

 Let me turn to business solutions. Revenue from business solutions was just over $100 million this quarter, reflecting the addition of Navision. Microsoft business solutions added over 1400 new customers across this broad product line this quarter, and we're excited about the potential for this business. And finally, revenues from our CE and mobility business grew 21 percent to $17 million. Microsoft's pocket PC-based handhelds performed well and with the new devices from current partners as well as new partners coming on board we expect to continue to see this kind of momentum. 

 Now let me talk about the rest of the income statement. As I said, total operating expenses this quarter were about $3.7 billion, a 14 percent increase over the prior year. Excluding the 36 percent increase in costs of revenue due primarily to Xbox production costs, operating expenses were up only 6 percent, about in line with our expectations. Cost of revenue did come in about 300 million below our original forecast, due to the lower-than-expected Xbox sell-in, as well as lower product support cost. However, we do think much of this is a shift in timing between quarters and expect most of those savings to be pushed out into future quarters. John will address this in more detail when he provides forward guidance. As a result of this strong revenue growth combined with moderate expense growth, operating income for the quarter totaled $4.05 billion, up a nice 40 percent from a year ago. Finally, some of you may have noticed we raised our effective tax rate to 33 percent from our previous tax rate of 32 percent. This was primarily due to increased book income and the declining impact of various rate benefits. 

 Now turning to cash flow and the balance sheet, cash flow from operations was another significant highlight this quarter. We generated a record $6.2 billion primarily driven by the big increase in annuity contracts signed during the quarter, the good operating results, and collection of accounts receivable. On the balance sheet, total assets were $70.2 billion, and stockholder equity was $53.5 billion at the end of the September. Cash and short-term investments totaled just over $40 billion, up nearly $2 billion from last quarter. Accounts receivable decreased sequentially $679 million, and DSO is down to 45 days. I would caution, however, if you plan to calculate DSO, you should include in changes in unearned revenue in your average sales number so it is consistent with what is included in receivables. Inventory was up almost $300 million sequentially, and that reflects the build-up of Xbox consoles and games in anticipation of strong holiday sales. Also, again, as mentioned earlier, our unearned revenue balance grew almost $1.4 billion sequentially, to $9.1 billion, led by the mix change to annuity license programs from a traditional organizational licensing and package product sales. 

 Finally, I'd like to point out that our average diluted weighted shares outstanding again declined this quarter to 5.458 billion shares. We continue to actively manage share dilution through our various buy back programs. In this quarter, we repurchased over 60 million shares for nearly $3 billion. You shouldn't expect us to continue our buy-back at this level. We will be opportunistic as we can. 

 So with that, let me turn it back to Krish and John. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Scott. I'd now like to turn it over to John for his thoughts on the forecast and the guidance. John? 

 JOHN CONNORS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, MICROSOFT CORPORATION: Thanks, Scott and Krish, and good afternoon, everybody. As always, let me begin by reiterating some of the key points from the quarter's results. This truly was an exceptional quarter. While we could not be more pleased with our revenue and profit results, I think it is important to highlight a couple of the contributors to the quarter's strong results that are not likely to occur again. 

 First, strong revenues from the OEM channel which reflect on going customer enthusiasm for Windows XP and in particular Windows XP Professional, our business version of Windows. As Scott pointed out, a recent change in the way OEMs report and pay for licenses they ship on PCs leaves us open to inventory fluctuations at their end. We think we saw some of that fluctuation this quarter. It is hard to anticipate how this trend will -- how this will trend going forward, but given our system transition is now complete, it should be less than the current quarter. 

 Second, we experienced stronger-than-expected sales of Windows Office and server products through our volume licensing and annuity programs. As many of you are aware our business customers have had an opportunity for about a year now to acquire the most current versions of our business software at very attractive prices prior to July 31st of 2002. Primarily through the purchase of upgrade advantage or UA. What we saw in the quarter was a lot of demand for UA in advance of the July 31st date. Much more than we anticipated. However, since the availability of UA ended on July 31st, we do expect to see customer purchasing behavior return to more modest levels, especially since a large number of customers have already signed on to licensing 6.0. Keep in mind that the UA spike in this quarter means that our sales force now has to work extra hard on rebuilding the sales pipeline for the remainder of the fiscal year and for fiscal 2004. I'll have more to say about the sales pipeline later in the call. 

 Also this spike of UA purchases has an effect on our unearned revenue balance if future periods and I want to spend a few minutes on that topic. Unearned revenues were up nicely for the quarter to 9.1 billion. UA billings represented the majority of this increase, a good measure of the impact they had on this quarter. Remember that UA contracts are billed entirely up front and recognized rateably over their 24 month life. While we do not forecast unearned revenues, I think it is important for to us share with you this quarter our views on how they may trend in the short term. As we recognize the benefit of the recent UA spike in future periods, and as we continue to rebuild the sales pipeline, it is probable that the total unearned revenue balance will tick slightly down sequentially for the next couple of quarters. Given the growth in the last nine months in unearned, this is what we expected to happen. As you will see from our forecast in aggregate, we believe that we are in solid shape for the balance of the current fiscal year. 

 Let me now turn to the details of the forecast beginning as always with our assumptions around macroeconomic and industry factors. We are still looking for PC shipment growth in the low to mid single digits for the full fiscal year. In recent months, many industry analysts have brought their forecasts for PC shipments down a bit, closer to where our numbers already were. So our view is that there has not been much change in this ecosystem for better or worse and things could still be characterized as pretty soft. For the second quarter, we think that PC shipments could be up slightly or be flat from last year. The demand for corporate IT infrastructure continues to be challenging. However, it has not worsened significantly from when we last spoke with you so we are staying with our assumptions at the outset of this quarter. We are looking for things to stay about the sazme with perhaps some relief towards the middle of calendar 2003. Obviously, there is downside to IT spending as consumer spending weakens and corporate profit expectations decline. 

 Turning now to revenues, as you knows, beginning with this quarter, we reported revenues along seven segments and I will provide guidance along those same lines. Our addendum includes a detailed explanation of what products are included in each of the segments. At the top line, we are forecasting revenues in the range of 32.2 to 32.6 billion for the full year. This is somewhat higher than our prior guidance to you reflecting the up side from the current quarter as well as the benefit from increase in unearned revenues in the current quarter. 

 Now let me break this down by segments. Starting with client, we expect to see revenues for this segment grow in the low teens for the full fiscal year benefitting from the on going shift to Windows XP Professional. The second quarter bears the brunt of a tough comparable giving the launch of Windows XP last year, and we expect revenues to be flat or possibly even decline just a little. Server platforms revenue for the full year should be up in the mid-teens reflecting the momentum we are seeing with our full complement of platform and application products as well as the success of visual studio.net. We also see benefits from the increase in unearned in Q1. For the second quarter, this second should be up a little over 10 percent. Information Worker revenues made up primarily of Office and related applications should deliver revenue growth in the low teens for the full year and in the mid single digits for the December quarter. 

 Business solutions. This segment is home to our great plains Navision and B Central teams and represents our nascent efforts at delivering products and services to small businesses. For the full year, revenues should be a little over a half billion dollars and the second quarter should be up about 30 percent sequentially from the first. Remember that the prior year numbers do not include Navision, and that makes this comparable a bit tricky. MSN revenues should be a little shy of 2 billion for the full year, and a little under 500 million for the second quarter. CE and mobility revenues for the full year should be about 75 million and about 20 million for the second quarter. This is a business that is very early in its life cycle, and we could not be more pleased about the product reviews and press we have been getting for the products that we will deliver in this space. 

 Home and entertainment. This division is home to Xbox hardware, TV and entertainment software. Revenues for the full year should be up in the high teens and this critical holiday quarter should come in at a little under 1 1/2 billion dollars. This holiday season we will see the launch of Xbox Live and several exciting new game titles and we are very excited about the momentum we have with our product line-up in this incredibly competitive market. This business will be a lot of fun to follow over the years, and consumers will benefit tremendously from our innovations on both the hardware and software front. 

 Now turning to operating expenses. Cost of goods sold should tick up slightly for the full year as a percentage of revenue to a little under 20 percent reflecting a full year of Xbox console shipments and our continuing investment in MSN and product services. For the second quarter, COGS should be a little shy of 25 percent of revenue given the seasonal strength of Xbox. Research and development expenses for the full year are expected to be just a bit over the mid-teens as a percentage of net revenue with the second quarter a little under 15 percent. Sales and marketing expenses for the full year should be down a little as a percentage of revenue. In the second quarter, we are looking at a sequential uptick as a percentage of revenue to just under 20 percent reflecting the investments we will make bringing Xbox Live, MSN 8, Tablet PC, and other products to market as well as a ramp in the sales force hiring we described in July at our annual financial analysts meeting. Finally, general and administrative expenses should just be a little shy of 3 percent of revenue for the full year and a little under that for the second quarter. In total, operating expenses should be just below 37 percent of revenue for the year, down a couple of points from the prior year. The second quarter number should be about the same as the percentage of revenue. At the operating income line, this results in a range of 14.1 to 14.4 billion for the full year, with the second quarter at about 3.2 to 3.3 billion. 

 For the full year, we are forecasting investment income to be in the range of 1.4 to 1.6 billion, with the second quarter at about 450 million. Remember, this is after factoring in the results of the current quarter and does not include impairments we may be required to recognize. With an effective tax rate 363 percent and an average share count of 5.47 billion shares for the full year, we arrive at EPS in the range of $1.89 to $1.95. In order to compare this with our prior guidance, remember that you will need to adjust for 5 cents iner pairments recognized in the first quarter. For the December quarter, we are forecasting earnings per share of either 45 or 46 cents with outstanding shares assumed to be 5.475 billion. 

 As always, I want to take a few minutes to share with you how we view the risks built into this forecast. There are at least eight key risks that you should note. One, to start with I wanted to expand on something I mentioned earlier, building the sales pipeline for fiscal 2003 and beyond. Investors need to fully understand that we do not anticipate sequential growth in unearned in the next couple of quarters. Any growth in the final quarter of this fiscal year is likely to be modest. Our sales organization was very focused on taking care of customers and explaining the licensing program and its long term benefits. They did a great job. 

 As we look to the rest of the year, we will be adding significant resources to our field and partner-led sales efforts. This requires a great deal of management time and training. We are seeing a large increase in opportunities in the server business relative to several years ago. This is due both to the value proposition of our server platform as well as the remarkable potential of our .NET architecture and development environment. However, the sales cycle is longer in this business and while corporate wallets are not closed they are gripped pretty tight. Our sales organization is also spending significant effort sharing with customers all the productivity scenarios they have yet to discover with our Information Worker assets. We are very excited about the response we are seeing from influential end users as they get previews in the Tablet PC and its potential for productivity. Expect a lot of focus from the Information Worker organization on making clear all the things people in organizations have yet to discover in the productivity space. 

 Number two, there is also a lot riding on our ability to effectively execute on our plans for Xbox this holiday season. We have a great opportunity to establish a strong position for our products and this holiday season is a big test. This is a business with different margins than software, and a lot of inventory and supply chain complexity, and investors need to be mindful of that risk. Third, the economy continues to be relatively uncertain. Our forecast assumes no further worsening on that front. Should that assumption change, there could be a sizable impact to our business. Fourth, [Linux] continues to grow share on Intel servers and for investors in Microsoft, the ramifications are obvious. Five, we have multiple businesses today and executing successfully in each is no small order. If we execute well, there is great opportunity such as you saw this quarter. If we do not, there is risk. Six, we are benefiting from a strengthening of the Euro. The US Euro exchange rate has shown a lot of volatility in the last six months. A strengthening of the dollar would reduce the benefit of comparables to the first quarter. Number seven, fiscal year '04 comparables from an operating profit perspective will be challenging. Taking this year's growth in operating profit and extrapolating would not be a prudent exercise. We have to go to work now on FY '04 revenue and efficiency opportunities. And eighth, finally continue to have significant legal risk. 

 In closing, I will reiterate that we had a truly unique quarter. Our sales organization executed well and we have a broad range of innovative technologies for business and consumers with a very compelling long-term product road map. We do have challenges ahead, and I hope I have made those clear to you. We are convinced we are making the right investment choices to meet these challenges and are very focused on executing on the many businesses we're in. As always, we take a long-term view and strive to be a company that makes clear the opportunities and risks we face. We have a lot of work to do to help our customer, partners and employees realize their potential, but that is the mission we're on. 

 Let me turn it back to Krish for questions and we'll go from there. Thanks very much. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, John and Scott. With that let's now proceed to questions. Today's calling call is running a little longer as usual and we want to accommodate as many questions as possible. So please, as a courtesy, we're requesting that you limit yourself to just one question. Operator, could you please repeat the instructions and take the first question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, we will now begin the questions and answer portion of today's call. If you have a question, press Star 1 on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. If you would like to withdraw your question, press Star 2. One moment, please, for the first question. (Pause) Mary Meeker of Morgan Stanley, you may ask your question. 

 MARY MEEKER, MORGAN STANLEY: Yeah, Dave and I both are a -- had a question but, Krish, we flipped a coin and Dave won. So... here you go. [ Laughter ] 

 DAVE, MORGAN STANLEY: I guess my key question here is just in terms of Enterprise on the server and also with regard to deferred revenue so just I guess what I will do is focus on deferred revenue since we need to just ask one question. Knowing that it's going to decline slightly and, uhm, over the next couple of quarters, maybe see some modest growth in June, it seems I guess -- if we could just have a little understanding of what we're seeing in terms of SMEs kind of migrate to that Enterprise agreement and what that means for, you know, if that's what you're factoring in when you see the decline in deferred revenue over the next couple of quarters. 

 SCOTT: Yeah, thanks, Dave. That's a good question. And as now, one of our primary focuses is on increaseing the penetration of licensing agreements in the small and medium-sized business segment. We do anticipate that we'll see some progress on that front in the next several quarters. But more likely towards the last half of the year and throughout FY '04. It is one of the principle focuses. However, we don't anticipate real robust spend in that segment until the economy improves. But when it does improve, or when those companies start spending, we will get, we think, increased share. 

 DAVE: Great. Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Operator: -- Operator, can we take the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: John McPeek of Prudential Securities, you may ask your question. 

 JOHN MCPEEK, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: Thank you very much. I just had a -- I'll ask one question. The eligible select and open customers, can you give us a sense, John, as to what percentage of those have entered into either software assurance or upgrade advantage? 

 JOHN CONNORS: You know, we don't break that out. What I would say, though, John, is we were pleased with the number of select and open customers that moved to UA ahead of the July 31st deadline. There are still a large number of customers that have not. So I think the key thing for us is working with those customers to either move them to a select and open Land SA based on our product road map. We have a lot of compelling architecture and products to talk about. Or move them to EA agreements as those select and open agreements expire. 

 JOHN MCPEEK: Can I push a little bit and say is it sort of like 50/50 or is it more than 50/50 have signed? 

 JOHN CONNORS: You know, if you look at the total number of select and open customers and the number of -- of organizations in sort of that midmarket, it's 10s of thousands. There is still a lot of them that we have the opportunity to get on a multi-year plan. 

 JOHN MCPEEK: Okay. In terms of number of seats is what I was thinking about, yeah, okay. Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: John, we don't disclose that -- you know, we don't disclose that in any quantified way. 

 JOHN MCPEEK: Okay. Fair enough. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks. Can we take the next question. 

 OPERATOR: George Gilbert of Credit Suisse First Boston. You may ask your question. 

 GEORGE GILBERT, CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON: Thanks. On the sevener business, can you give us some color on how the attach rates for the annuity contracts improved versus last year and what was the increase in the unit volume so that we get a sense for, you know, backing out of the annuities deferred some of the revenue? 

 SCOTT: Yeah. The annuity growth in the server platforms and tools was strong from a small base. The key thing I think is that we ended up having good success attaching more servers and cals to Enterprise agreements and we estimate that the Intel based server in the first quarter grew about six percent against a shrinkage of UMIX of about 2 percent and we posted double-digit growth in both the Windows server business and exchange -- and SQL businesses so our attach on EAs is up and the individual sales are also up. 

 GEORGE GILBERT: Okay, thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, George. Can we take the next question, operator? 

 OPERATOR: Rick Sherlund of Goldman Sachs, you may ask your question. 

 RICK SHERLUND, GOLDMAN SACHS: The up side you showed in revenues on the quarter was a little surprising. And what I have heard at the multi-year agreements, but when we looked out to the June, back to the June quarter, and you know, we kind of forecast what kind of contribution were you going to get from the beginning deferred balance this year, I'm not sure I completely understand where the up side came from in multiyears. Didn't we see that coming or was that more of the 1.4 billion being recognized this quarter? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yes. Good question, Rick. There's a number of factors on the revenue upside. First of all, given that the July 31st deadline occurred early in the quarter and then the distributors had another two weeks to get their contracts in, we did see some recognition in the current quarter from the upside of licensing program, probably on the order of a couple of hundred million dollars. Secondly, as Scott mentioned, we had FX up side that we hadn't forecasted. And then finally, the Windows Professional mix was higher than we had anticipated. And the transition to type one billing helped a little bipt and then final, MSN and business solutions, also were a little bit higher than we thought. And then in summary, we also try to be cautious about what we think the -- the start of a year will look like because the summer quarter's fairly tough to predict. So we were probably a little more cautious than --than things turned out were necessary to be. 

 RICK SHERLUND: Okay. Thanks. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Rick. 

 OPERATOR: Don Young of UBS Warburg, you may ask your question. 

 DON YOUNG, UBS WARBURG: Yes. Thank you. And congratulations on a great performance. I'm wondering if you could address this -- the balance in deferred revenues. You're talking about a couple of quarters of declines and it may be some small strength in the final quarter. Could you share with us what some of the assumptions are behind that as far as your multi-year license mix? Are you assuming that your EAs are plateauing here? Or do you still need growth in EAs or multi-year select bookings to achieve that deferred revenue performance? 

 JOHN CONNORS: That's a good question, Don. You know, I think the -- when we look at the forecast for the rest of the year, we do still anticipate fairly strong build revenue growth from EA renewals as well as new EAs being signed for companies that don't have them yet. But if you factor in the last nine months and particularly the last quarter growth in UA, we aren't anticipating that kind of spike. So we're expecting a modest sequential decline in December, a modest sequential decline in Milosevic, and then depending on how -- in March and then depending on how the economy looks and our Enterprise business looks for June which is traditionally a strong quarter, we would expect a slight uptick. 

 DON YOUNG: Can I translate to mean that each quarter, then, you expect a little bit of growth in the EA mix? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Well, the June quarter, as now, is traditionally a strong quarter both for EA renewals and EA signings, and then the June quarter is generally strong but given we're coming off this big UA spike in this quarter, we do expect that the overall unearned balance combination of unearned and -- or short-term and long-term, to tick slightly down. 

 DON YOUNG: Thank you, John. 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yes. Thanks, Don. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Don. Next question. 

 OPERATOR: Charlie Dibona of Sanford Bernstein. 

 CHARLIE DIBONA, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: In the past you have given some breakdowns of the unearned revenue by category. And also particularly, you know, undelivered elements and other components like that could you give us some color on that? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yes. We didn't publish that this quarter, Charlie, and I'll just be straight and honest with you. We're going through a heck of a lot of work on our segment restatement and cut over there. And we didn't have the complete restatement of prior years where we wanted it to be so we'll get that published on the Web as soon as it's done. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Next question. 

 OPERATOR: Drew Brousseau of S.G. Cowen. You may ask your question. 

 DREW BROUSSEAU, S.G. COWEN: John, just a question around the same deferred revenue issue which is can you talk to the deferred revenue that's off the balance sheet and what you expect the trend in that number to be over the next several quarters? 

 JOHN CONNORS: You know, we -- we are -- anything that we haven't billed it isn't on the balance sheet. It's a substantial number but I would -- you could kind of quantify it as sort of around a range of half of our total unearned. 

 DREW BROUSSEAU: Do you expect it to follow a similar pattern to the unearned that's on the balance sheet? 

 JOHN CONNORS: It just depends on how the EA business goes the rest of the year and how the l&sa business for non-ua customers goes. 

 DREW BROUSSEAU: Okay. Great. Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks. Can we take the next question, operator. 

 OPERATOR: Bob Austrian of Banc of America Securities, you may ask your question. 

 BOB AUSTRIAN, BANC OF AMERICA SECURITIES: Great. Also congratulations on the quarter. One further on the deferred. Are we missing something or is all of the upgrade advantages contribution to deferred revenue going to be consumed over the next 20 -- 22 month? And can you give us any range of what part of your 9.1 billion relates to this one kind of contract and its rolloff so we can better model what will happen long term? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yes. That's a good question, Bob. The ua is billed up front and earned over 24 months. So that UA spike we saw in the first quarter would have probably an effective life left of about 22 1/2 months. In terms of the current quarter, it was a big contributor. We don't break it down, but it was significant. But you will see that over the next 22 1/2 months. 

 BOB AUSTRIAN: And John, as you describe the rolloff down slightly and then up and so forth, are there any other significant moving parts that we need to consider other than the UA program just running its course? 

 JOHN CONNORS: No. The most important factors in thinking through that unearned balance going forward are, how successful are we with EA renewals, and then secondly, how successful are we with EA penetration in -- in medium to small accounts with more than 250 PCs. 

 BOB AUSTRIAN: Great. Thanks. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Next question, operator. 

 OPERATOR: Mitch Wagner of Internet Week you you may ask your question. 

 MITCH WAGNER, INTERNET WEEK: Yes. One thing we've been seeing when we have been talking to some Enterprise customers and industry analysts is there were people were signing up for the new Enterprise agreement but doing so unhappily. And there was a prediction that there would be spending a lot of time in the next couple of years looking for alternatives and perhaps even finding them. Is that a concern for you guys? And if so, how are you addressing it? 

 JOHN CONNORS: You know, it's a fair question. And anybody that's a dissatisfied customer is a concern. Our sales force spent a lot of time explaining, first of all, the product road map and the benefits long term to the licensing 6 program. And I think really at the end of the day, the test will be, do we deliver great products on the client and server side, and is .NET an attractive development architecture? We think our product pipeline is very rich. But being honest, we would go back and probably change some things about how we implemented the program in hindsight. And we always try to wake up and learn every day. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Mitch. Operator, can we take just two more questions, please. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you. Our next question comes from Laura Lederman of William Blair & Company. You may ask your question. 

 LAURA LEDERMAN, WILLIAM BLAIR & COMPANY: Down to the wire! Looking at the small and medium sized businesses and whether or not they are going to go to the Enterprise agreement, is it just the economy or do they seem less likely to do it because they upgrade over a much longer time frame and so it would be unfortunately for them more expensive? Can you talk a little bit about non-economic factors with that market -- 

 JOHN CONNORS: You've identified two key criteria. One is the economy in general, and how much do you allocate for technology spend? And secondly, smaller organizations have generally spent less per user on technology and have smaller IT staffs and therefore the deployment of product technology is a bigger challenge. I think with the combination of investments we have made in product quality as well as making our products easier to deploy and manage, that helps. We're investing quite heavily in our SMB partner asset and that indirect sales force and I think we'll reach more customers as to give them the story about how they can use our technology to actually save money in their businesses broadly and make their workers more productive. But you have identified the two significant challenges. It's an expensive -- it's an expensive difficult market to reach. 

 LAURA LEDERMAN: Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Laura. And can we take the last question, then. 

 OPERATOR: Our last question comes from Chris of Merrill Lynch. You may ask your question. 

 CHRIS, MERRILL LYNCH: Laura, that wasn't even close. This is close!. Thanks for taking my call. As you look at fiscal '04, John, could you help us think through some of the profit challenges and kind of comparison issues that you mentioned? Kind of looking at gross margin impacts from Xbox as you would see those into the next fiscal year? Versus some of the M&A activity you have done bringing on head counsel from some of the business applications segments, as well? And are you considering any kind of belt tightening from an operating expense standpoint that would be different from kind of the more aggressive you know, continuing to invest into some of these emerging product segments as you look through fiscal '03? 

 JOHN CONNORS: Yes, it's a very good question. We obviously don't have a FY '04 plan or guidance model now but I think there are several things we have to do. We have to continue to sustain the momentum in the client business and look to maybe a bit stronger PC market than what we're now seeing. Secondly, we have a great opportunity with our Information Worker business due to -- to really get out and describe and show people all the scenarios for how our Information Worker assets have not been deployed to their full benefit. I think new form factors like the tablet, the Xbox products we ship next year, Office 11, really help to get us there. In the server and tools business, it's really a function of getting our .NET architecture story out and having customers see more and more deployments and seeing some critical ISVs move our way. And then as you move to our new emerging businesses, we have to see a better profit profile or lower investment level across the board there. Then finally, as we talked about with you guys at the analysts meet, we do now have large absolute spend in cost of goods sold and large absolute spend in operating expenses. And if we're really focused on continuous fiscal improvement, there is opportunity to -- to drop profits to the bottom line through more effective cost and business operations. But if you look at the operating profit we've now guided to and the growth over the last year, we'll ally have to get all the salespeople we're hiring this year carrying and meeting quotas. We'll have to be successful in the small to medium-sized business segment. We'll have to have lower investment or higher revenues with similar level of costs in some of our new businesses. And we have to really look for efficiencies. But I think the company's up to the challenge. And we're looking forward to it. 

 CHRIS: Great. Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Chris. And thank you, everyone, for joining us today. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me directly. As I mentioned at the top of the call, this conference call will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business next Friday, October 25th. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay at 800-308-4030. With pass code 8441 or for international calls, dial 402-220-3832, again pass code 8441. Once again, thank you for joining us today. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | icomp : Computing
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyah003ga
  


 HD
 Q4  2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
9,127 words
   PD
18 July 2002
   ET
09:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Good morning, and thank you for standing by. Welcome to the Microsoft conference call. Presently all participants are in a listen-only mode mode. Later, we will conduct a question-and-answer session. If you have a question, simply press star 1 on your touch-tone phone at anytime during the presentation. You will be announced prior to asking your question. Should you need assistance, press star 0. As a reminder this call is being recorded at the request of Microsoft for replay purposes. At this time, I would like to introduce Krish Srinivasan, Senior Director of Investor Relations. Sir, you may begin. 

   TD
 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN, SENIOR DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, MICROSOFT: Thank you, Brenda. Thanks, everyone, for joining us today. This afternoon, I'm joined by John Connors, our Chief Financial Officer, Scott Boggs, Vice President, Corporate Controller, and John Seahawk, deputy general counsel. On today's call, Scott will start by talking about our fourth quarter and year end results for fiscal 2002, and then John will provide with you some guidance on what we can look forward to next quarter and also for the full fiscal year. After that we will take your questions. 

 As always, we have included an addendum of financial highlights as part of the earnings release that has more detailed information about revenue by major product division and channel as well as detail about operating expenses and other items. We have structured our comments reviewing the quarter's results today in the same sequence as they are discussed in that document, so hopefully that makes it easy to follow along. Today's call will be recorded. Please be aware that if you would like to ask a question, it will be included in both our live transmission as well as any future use of the recording. 

 Also, as we have done for a long time now, shareholders can listen to a live webcast of the call at the Microsoft Investor Relations website, www.microsoft.com/msft. The replay of the call will be available at the same site through the close of business on Friday, July 26th. This conference call report is protected by copyright law and international treaties. Unauthorized reproduction or distribution of this report or any portion of it may result in civil and criminal penalties. Any recording or other use or transmission of the text or audio of today's call is not allowed without the express permission of Microsoft. 

 Let me now turn to the results. I assume most of you have already seen today's press release. In any case, let me highlight the main items. For the quarter ended June 30, 2002, revenue was 7.25 billion, a 10 percent increase over the $6.58 billion reported in the prior year. Operating income for the quarter totaled $2.87 billion. For the full fiscal year, revenue was $28.37 billion, a 12 percent increase over the $25.3 billion reported at the end of last year. Operating income for the full year totaled $11.91 billion. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were 28 cents, which includes a 15-cent charge related to investment impairments. For the full year, diluted earnings per share were $1.41, which included after-tax charges for investment impairments of 53 cents. Estimated expenses in connection with consumer class action lawsuits of 8 cents and a one-time gain on the sale of Expedia of 15 cents. 

 We will be making in this call -- statements in this call that are forward-looking. These statements are based on current expectations and assumptions that are subject to risk and uncertainties. Actual results could differ materially because of factors discussed in today's earnings press release. In the comments made during the conference call, and the management discussion and analysis section of the company's 2001 Form 10-K and other reports and filings with the SEC. And we do not undertake any duty to update any forward-looking statements. With that out of way, let me turn it over to Scott for review of our quarter's results. Scott? 

 SCOTT BOGGS, VICE PRESIDENT, CORPORATE CONTROLLER, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Krish and good afternoon to everyone. As he mentioned, our press release includes an addendum which gives a more comprehensive overview of our financial results for the quarter. And I would encourage you to review that information. I would, however, like to use this time to first summarize our results for the year, then highlight a few additional points related to the quarter. As usual, all growth comparisons I mentioned will be to the comparable period last year. -- comparable period last year. 

 Let me begin by reflecting a bit on the year we just finished, where we started and how we ended. Fiscal year 2002 was probably one of the most challenging periods I have seen in my career both for our industry and for Microsoft. Yet despite industry turmoil and very tough economic conditions, I think we executed remarkably well and continued to deliver value to our customers. We started the year with an expectation that the pc market would be soft. But I don't think anyone imagined we would see a decline of approximately 4 percent for the year. Nevertheless, we still grew our business by 12 percent to $28.4 billion. We delivered $11.9 billion in operating income, and we grew our earnings per share by 7 percent. Pretty respectable, I think, given the context and compared to our peers and competitors. 

 Let me spend a few moments discussing some of the things that drove our performance for the year and against our expectations at the beginning of the year. First, offsetting the unexpected decline in pc shipments was the overwhelming acceptance of Windows XP, and in particular XP Professional, which accounted for about half of all operating systems licensed we sold this year. This was a much higher percentage than we had anticipated and contributed to desktop platform revenue growth of 16 percent. That's almost double what we expected at the beginning of the year. Second was the strong uptake by organizations for our annuity license programs. As I have mentioned in past calls, the shift to these programs can sometimes negatively impact our current growth rates, especially for desktop application and enterprise software products. Reported revenue for these products grew quite a bit slower than we originally expected. However, the 2-plus billion dollar build-up in our unearned revenue account during the year does provide with us a more predictable revenue stream and the added benefit of better visibility going into fiscal 2003. The prolonged downturn in I.T. spending and softer than expected demand for server hardware also impacted enterprise software and services revenue. Despite this we gained significant market share in both the sevener OS and database markets and are comfortable that our efforts to deliver scalable solutions to our enterprise customers are right on track. 

 Finally, revenue from the consumer software and services segment totaled $3.6 billion for the year. While this represents growth of 80 percent -- 84 percent over 2001, it was on the low end of our original expectations largely due to the price cuts we took on Xbox last spring. Nevertheless, Xbox got off to a terrific start in its first year. We shipped over 3.9 million game consoles, although that's a little under the 4.5 to 6 million unit range we expected at the beginning of the year. In addition, about 20 million Xbox games were sold worldwide by us and our third party game developers. 

 Revenue from our MSN business was up 24 percent, just about as planned even in the face of a declining online advertising market. With fiscal year revenue coming in less than initially planned, we also took the opportunity to look really hard at bringing down our expense run rate. Due to the great work of all managers across Microsoft, we were able to hold operating expense growth to just 5 percent. That's before the $660 million charge we recorded related to the class action suit. Excluding this charge, operating income came in close to what we originally expected for the year. 

 Probably the biggest disappointment during the year was the charges we had to take for other than temporary impairments in our strategic investment portfolio. Over the last two years, we have written down $9 billion of capital invested largely in cable and Telecom companies. While we are not happy about this, it is necessary for to us make investments in technologies to drive future profits. And just like spending on research and development, some of these investments will pay off, others won't. While we continue to believe in the strategic initiatives we have with these partners, it does subject us to the volatility of the markets. 

 Now let me just discuss briefly the current quarter. Net revenue grew 10 percent to $7.25 billion reflecting good growth against a backdrop of mixed economic and industry trends. We estimate total pc shipments worldwide were down about 1 percent during the quarter. By region, the U.S. appears to have grown, albeit in the low single digits. Japan continues to be weak, although declines slowed to the high single digits. And amia was down as expected in the low single digits. These results are consistent with what we expected at the beginning of the quarter, and bolster our optimism that it's reasonable to expect slow but positive growth going into the next few quarters. 

 As anticipated, we saw many corporate customers take advantage of annuity license agreements such as enterprise agreements, upgrade advantage, and software assurance. As corporate licensing has and continues to become a significant portion of our business, starting this quarter, we will provide a couple of new metrics. First, I'll give you a way to quantify fight impact of previously deferred revenue -- quantify the impact of previously deferred revenue on our total reported revenue during the quarter. During Q4 the recognition of previously deferred annuity license revenue accounted for approximately 20 percent of our total net revenue. This has trended up a few percentage points each quarter throughout the year. Secondly, in our addendum, we have provided a look at how revenue currently deferred on the balance sheet will be earned in fiscal year 2003. Hopefully, you will find these metrics useful in gaining a better understanding of how annuity licensing impacts our business. 

 Moving on, we saw strong sales of Windows XP in both the OEM and corporate channels during the quarter, driving desktop platforms revenue up 20 percent to $2.4 billion. The single biggest contributing factor for this growth was the mix of Windows XP Pro and 2000 Pro. As a percentage of all 32-bit operating systems reported to us, business versions of Windows were 60 percent this quarter, compared to 41 percent reported in the fourth quarter of 2001. However, let me remind you, this ratio represents all operating systems in all channels, including OEM and corporate licensing, so I would caution that this may be somewhat skewed by the very large number of annuity contracts signed during this quarter, which include Pro version of windows. The mix of XP pro and the OEM channel also grew by a similar proportions, but continues to be quite a bit below the consolidated 60 percent ratio. In future quarters, the mix of OEM versus corporate license as well as the mix of home versus business machines will undoubtedly cause this ratio to vary quite a bit. 

 OEM revenue grew 17 percent this quarter, well above the growth of pc units, again primarily due to the increase in XP Pro mix. In addition, as we have seen in the past quarters, system builders continue to take share from the large multi-national OEMs, which results in a slightly higher average selling price to us. Finally, sales of office and server products in the OEM channel did a little bit better than we expected, also adding to the growth rate. In past quarters I have pointed out that OEM growth rates have been favorably impacted by the recognition of unearned revenue from prior quarters. I have also cautioned this trend would begin to taper off and this quarter, like last, had almost no impact on the growth rate. Revenue from desktop applications grew 1 percent to $2.5 billion this quarter. We continue to see very solid customer demand for Office primarily through the various enterprise volume license programs. Again, since most of the revenue from these programs is recognized over the term of the agreement, the real strength of this business is reflected in the robust growth of unearned revenue for desktop applications, which was up 59 percent over last year. We continue to see very solid customer demand for Office, especially from corporations, customers adopting Office XP this quarter included Glaxco Smithkline and the U.S. department of the Air Force. 

 In the enterprise space, revenue grew 4 percent to $1.35 billion. We continue to see tremendous acceptance of our server products into the data centers of some of the largest companies around the world. Including wins this is quarter with Target, Toyota Motors, Hilton Hotel, the NASDAQ, and the U.S. Navy, and SunTrust Bank. Sever platform grew 13 percent. We believe shipments of Intel-based server hardware grew slightly during the quarter while non-x86 hardware continued to decline, enabling to us gain market share from high-end Unix players. Growth in server application revenue was 4 percent. The popularity of annuity license to purchase server software exceeded our expectations by a wide margin. As with our desktop applications business, reported revenue doesn't tell the whole story. Unearned revenue for the enterprise software and service business was up an eye-popping 102 percent over last year, as customers took their opportunity to include more server products in their annuity license. SQLs server was a standout growing revenue and customers in a quarter when its competitors are going in the opposite direction. 

 Now let me talk about consumer software services and devices revenue, which totaled about $800 million for the quarter. The price cuts announced last week for Xbox appear to have had a positive impact on console sales, which were a little higher than we expected. In just the 6 months since launch, Xbox has achieved a 25 percent share of next generation gaming consoles sold in the United States. And even better, has a healthy game attach ratio of 4.2. This compares to PS2 at 2.9, and Game Cube and 3.7 during similar time frames following their launches. Our overseas market also did a bit better this quarter and we are looking forward to our first holiday season there. 

 MSN continued to execute successfully, turning in steady double-digit growth again this quarter. MSN advertising continues to perform strongly, led by the strength of performance-based advertising. Further, the MSN access business which includes access and premium services, finished the fiscal year with 8.7 million subscribers. As a result, revenue generated from the Internet access business showed healthy growth. We are seeing a real interesting transition in this business. If you recall, starting in the late '90s, MSN offered some very aggressive promotional deals to add new access customers. This helped to drive subscriber growth but did not contribute significantly to revenues. Now, as many of these promotional periods are expiring, we are seeing many of these customers convert to full-paying subscribers. In addition, we are making investments in broadband access through our partnerships with Qwest and Verizon, and we have seen that these subscribers tend to have a lower churn rate. The bottom line is that MSN has experienced very positive growth in full-paying subscribers and average revenue per subscriber growth, and while the growth in absolute number of subscribers has slowed, the quality of those subscribers has improved immensely. 

 Now, let me turn your attention to operating expenses. Total operating expenses came in at $4.4 billion, or 60 percent of net revenue and grew about 14 percent. Excluding costs of goods sold, which is higher than last year due to the Xbox business, operating expenses grew at a very modest rate of only 2 percent. Cost of goods sold came in under 19 percent of revenue, while consistent with the past several quarters this was a little higher than we expected due primarily to sales and costs associated with Xbox. One other item to note: Sales and marketing expenses reflects an unplanned charge related to an agreement to terminate a marketing arrangement in the MSN business. But despite these unexpected variances, operating income came in just about where we planned at $2.9 billion, or 40 percent of net revenue. I should also note that we ended the fiscal year with total employment of 50,500 people worldwide, representing a net growth of just over 2900 employees during the year. 

 Now, turning to investment losses. Every quarter this year we have taken significant charges related to investments that have become impaired. Each time we have told you we thought additional impairments were unlikely. However, would appear that none of us here are much good at predicting the markets and as the NASDAQ fell another 20 percent just in the last couple of months, the value of some of our holdings, particularly in the Telecom and cable sectors continued to decline. As a result, we have had to take an additional charge for other and temporary impairments of $1.19 billion before taxes. While this represents our best judgment at this point in time, continued financial market volatility could have a significant impact on us. One other cautionary note: We still expect the acquisition of AT&T by Comcast to be completed by the end of this calendar year. Our investment in AT&T is currently carried at an adjusted basis of about $3 billion, and when exchanged into 115 million shares of new AT&T/Comcast stock could result in a significant gain or loss given the recent volatility of both those companies' stock prices. 

 Finally, let me discuss a few cash flow and balance sheet items. Cash flow from operations was a very healthy $3.4 billion, reflecting continued growth in annuity agreements, offset somewhat by an increase in accounts receivable. Despite this cash flow, cash and short-term investments were flat over -- flat quarter over quarter at $38.6 billion, due to our large stock buyback, which I'll discuss more in just a moment. As I've mentioned a couple times, growth in unearned revenue on the balance sheet was very strong, up 38 percent year-over-year, and $830 million sequentially, reflecting the large number of annuity agreements signed during the quarter. At year end, the balance in unearned revenue stands at over $7.7 billion. And of this, almost $6 billion is expected to be recognized next year. Finally, this quarter, we were very active in buying back shares of our stock. During the quarter, we acquired about 89 million shares at a cost of $4.8 billion. That had the effect of driving down our average outstanding fully diluted share count for the quarter to 5.53 billion shares. While you shouldn't expect us to continue our buyback at this level, we will be opportunistic when we see the chance. With that now let me turn it back to Krish and John. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Scott. I would now like to turn over to John for his thoughts on the guidance and the rest of the year. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK, DEPUTY GENERAL COUNSEL, MICROSOFT: Thanks, Scott and Krish and good afternoon, everybody. Thank you for joining us today. I'd like to begin by reiterating some of the key results for the fiscal year just ended. Following that, I want to spend a few minutes reviewing some changes to our external reporting formats which will take effect in the September quarter. After that, as always, I will provide details of our guidance for the September quarter and full year fiscal 2003. As Scott indicated, fiscal 2002 was one of the most challenging periods for the technology industry specifically, and more generally for the broad financial markets. Yet despite this turbulence and weak pc demand and corporate I.T. spending, Microsoft was able to deliver extremely solid operating results from a revenue and operating profit standpoint. Scott walked you through the details. Let me just reiterate three key themes that characterize this year. 

 First, extremely successful launches for Windows XP, Xbox, MSN, and VisioStudio.net. Products represent some of the finest work we have done and we executed well in bringing them to market. Second, continued success with our sevener product line-up which grew and gained market share despite a shrinking market for server hardware. The market for Intel-based sevener hardware was softer than we expected, however our value proposition relative to UNIX continued to strengthen, and we enjoy better growth than most other players. And third, a focus on managing costs effectively while continuing to make the investments we deemed critical for the company's long-term success. We were able to drive efficiencies in business processes across the company and that had a positive impact on our cost structure. Over this same period, our business leaders remaining unwavering in their commitment to making the big bets that have the potential to deliver long-term shareholder value. The year was not without its challenges. We recognized more than $4 billion in impairments to our investment portfolio for the full year. I.T. budgets continued to be tight. And pc shipments for fiscal 2002 declined over the prior year. We believe that the macroeconomic environment will continue to be challenging in the short term, but we do feel confident that we are making good progress building and growing a diverse set of businesses, and if we execute well, our relative position in each of these businesses could be stronger exiting fiscal year '03. As always we take the long term view necessary for sustaining success. 

 Let me now turn to some reporting changes for fiscal 2003, specifically in the way we will report and provide guidance for revenue. As you all know, our portfolio of businesses has diversified considerably in recent years from our entry into the game console market with Xbox to the acquisition of great Plains and Navision, as we bring business solutions to knowledge workers in small and medium enterprises. In order to continue to provide you with better clarity into our many businesses, as well as to better align these revenue streams with the way we think about them internally, we will begin reporting revenues in the following categories. I will briefly describe them for you here on the conference call, however please refer to our addendum for a detailed definition of what goes into each of these lines, as well as a map that bridges the old and new views. First, client. This line will be comprised of Windows for the desktop as well as revenues from embedded versions of Windows, including Windows CE. Server will contain the Windows sevener family: 2000, 2000 advanced, 2000 data center, the dot-net enterprise servers, some associated client access licenses, enterprise support and service, and developer tools. Knowledge worker is comprised primarily of Office, but it also includes Project, Visio, and other desktop applications, Client access licenses and revenues from our business solutions group, which is made up of Great Plains, B central and an fy '03 Navision. MSN. This is self-explanatory and consists of MSN absorbs the portal and the internet properties. Home and entertainment. This is where we will report Xbox as well as our hardware and pc games revenue. It also contains revenue from our TV business. So those are the revenue categories that we will report on a go-forward basis. To assist you with your models and compare sons, we are making available a historical restatement for fy '01 and fy '02 in this new format. These tables available in the addendum to our financial results, as well. 

 With that out of the way, let me now turn to our guidance for the current year and for the first quarter. We are planning on pc shipment growth in the low to mid single digits for fiscal 2003 consistent with what we told you last quarter. It does not appear to us that there has been any significant change for better or for worse in the demand for pc's since our last earnings conference call. For the first quarter, we are looking for pc shipment growth in the mid single digits or slightly higher. The comparison with the prior year is an easy one, especially for consumer pc's which were quite weak in the first quarter of fiscal 2002. We are looking for consumer pc growth in mid- to upper single digits with business pc's up in mid single digits. Total net revenue for fiscal 2003 should be in the range of $31.4 billion, to $32 billion, or up 11 to 13 percent. Operating income should be up 12 to 14 percent, or 13.3 to 13.6 billion. This operating income growth includes 660 million we recorded as an estimate for the settlement of class action lawsuits in the second quarter of fiscal 2002. On a comparable basis, we are looking for operating income growth in the 6 to 8 percent range, excluding this charge. Diluted earnings per share should be between $1.85 and $1.91. 

 Some of you may be wondering why our revenue and EPS guidance today is a little lower than the numbers we shared with you in April. Keep in mind that our previous forecast range for revenue of 31.5 to 32.4 billion was made prior to the bottoms-up business planning exercise that the company engages in during the fourth quarter of every year. Our current forecast includes the input of our field subsidiaries and product teams and represents less than a 1 percent variance from our prior guidance at the high-end. EPS is a penny lower at the high end due to assumptions around investment income which I will describe in a minute. For the first fiscal quarter, net revenue is expected to be in the range of 7 to 7.1 billion. Operating income is expected to be about 3 billion. And EPS should be 42 or 43 cents. 

 Moving on to revenue details by business category, and keep in mind here, I will be using the new revenue categories I outlined previously. Client revenues for the full fiscal year should grow in the high single digits 7 to 8 percent. For the first quarter, client revenues will be up almost 20 percent. While this may seem like a very strong growth relative to underlying pc shipments in the first quarter, it is important to keep in mind that this quarter represents a very favorable comparison with the prior year. Also as the mix of Windows XP Professional continues to grow, it has a positive impact on revenue. 

 Server revenues should grow nicely in the mid- to upper teens for the full year. In the first quarter, that growth should be in the mid single digits. As I mentioned before, demand for Intel-based server hardware was pretty weak relative to our expectation in fiscal 2002. We are assuming that there is an improvement in this market as the year progresses, and we also benefit from easier comparisons with the prior year. In the knowledge worker line, we are looking for full-year growth in the low double digits with the first quarter up in the high single digits. This forecast reflects the benefit that accrues to this business as a result of business booked in fiscal 2002 that gets earned in the current year. 

 MSN revenues for the full year will be up in the mid- to upper single digits and decline in double digits for the first quarter. This trend is not reflective of a weakness in this business. Instead, it is a result of our divestiture of Expedia last year. Expedia revenues are included in fiscal 2002, but not in fiscal 2003. Excluding the impact of this, MSN revenues including revenues from Access and the Internet properties should be up nearly 20 percent for the full year and up in the high single digits in the first quarter. Home and entertainment revenues should grow a little over 20 percent for the full year as Xbox enters its second holiday season with a broad array of exciting titles and console availability in all three markets around the world. For the first fiscal quarter, home and entertainment revenues should be about 600 million. 

 And now turning to expenses. For full fiscal year 2003, cost of revenue should increase to about 20 percent of total net revenue. This reflects a full year of Xbox sales and the impact of the price reductions that went into effect in the latter half of fiscal 2002. For the first quarter, this number should be up sequentially to a little over 21 percent. Research and development expenses should grow to a little over 16 percent of net revenue, both for the year and for the first quarter. As I have said before, we are making some big bets in this year, and this increase reflects some of that investment as well as the full year impact of fy '02 hires. Sales and marketing expense will be a lower percentage of net revenue for the year and the quarter as we come off a year where we had to invest in the launch of products like Xbox, Windows XP, and MSN. For full-year fiscal 2003, this line should come in at about 18 percent, and for the first quarter, there will be a sequential drop of a couple of points to a little over 17 percent. G&A should be about 3 percent of net revenue for the year, and a little under that for the first quarter. 

 In summary, we are looking to bring operating expenses in at a little under 38 percent for the year and a little under 37 percent for the current quarter. This translates to operating income of between 13.3 and 13.6 billion for the full year, and about 3 billion for the quarter. We are forecasting investment income to be a little under 2 billion for the year, and about 500 million for the quarter. This may be a little lower than many of you expected and is driven largely by the fact that our recent buyback activity reduces the cash volume in our average portfolio for the year, and additionally expectations we have for interest rates in fiscal year '03 have trended down a little bit over the last couple of months. With an effective tax rate of 32 percent and a projected share count of 5.53 billion for the year and quarter, that brings us to EPS of between $1.85 and $1.91 for the full year, and 42 or 43 cents for the quarter. 

 A few more thoughts about fiscal 2003. We are entering this year very well positioned on many fronts. Windows XP has seen strong adoption. Our server products continue to gain share in most categories. Xbox is off to a great start around the world. VisioStudio.net and our Web services strategy is resonating extremely well with developers. We just announced the next version of MSN 8, and the unearned revenue balance is up nicely. We have also have a targeted set of investments that if properly executed, will deepen our commitment to the enterprise, to knowledge workers, to developers, and to small and mid-sized businesses. We feel extremely good about the long-term potential of these investments. We also continue to face significant risks and challenges. Linux is a threat as are the other competitors we face every day in customer situations. In such a vigorously competitive environment, there is a premium on execution and we are well aware of that. The threat of litigation and the ongoing legal process is also a risk for shareholders. Global financial markets are clearly in a state of flux and have created a fair amount of uncertainty in the economic environment. It is our expectation that things improve modestly throughout the year. If markets remain weak or weaken further, it almost certainly will impact consumer confidence as well as I.T. spending. 

 Many of you will be here in Redmond for our financial analyst meeting next week. At that event, we will delve further into the details of our technology and product plans for the short and long term. It promises to be an exciting day, and I look forward to seeing and meeting with you then. For those of you who will not be here, please note that we will be holding a live webcast of the event as we have done in the years past. Those details will be available on our website. 

 I would now want to spend just a few moments on the topic of corporate governance. In the last year, we have seen a wide range of issues and behaviors exposed from the bubble of the late 1990s that have badly damaged shareholder wealth and confidence. At Microsoft, we take our responsibility to shareholders very seriously. There are several principles that I want to share with you today that hopefully provide a context and foundation for your evaluation of how we manage this responsibility. First, our Chairman, CEO and board of directors take a long-term view of the business and always have. We do not manage the company for the short term. Those among you who have tracked us for a while know this to be true. Second, we strive to be very open and candid about the risks we face in our business. We want you to really listen to the risks we enumerate and have you factor them into your view of our near and long-term potential. Third, we strive to meet the letter and spirit of regulation FD, and we strive to provide you the transparency into our business that allows to you make measured decisions. We want to you know all the positives and potential we see but we also must insist you recognize the risks. Further, we have always placed a premium on broad, consistent, and timely disclosure of material financial information and see that as a key tenet to the long-term relationship we want to build with the people who are part owners in this company. Fourth, we strive to properly assess assets so they are never overestimated, and we look hard for any liabilities that should be reflected in our financial results and in our disclosures to you. Fifth and finally, we have asked that every single finance employee in Microsoft locations worldwide attest to a Microsoft finance code of business conduct, which is modeled around the code of business conduct defined by the financial executive institute. 

 In closing I want to thank you for your support. We had a good year on a relative basis, and we think we are doing the right things for the long term. If we execute well and continue to build the products and services that allow people to realize their potential, shareholders will be well served over the long term. Thanks and let's turn it over to Krish for questions. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, John. With that let's proceed to questions. We want to accommodate as many of your questions as possible. So please, I request that you limit yourself to just one question per person. Operator, could you please repeat the instructions and take the first question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Thank you, ladies and gentlemen we will now begin the question and answer portion of today's call. If you have a question, please press star 1 on your touch-tone phone. You will be announced prior to asking your question. If you would like to withdraw your questions, press the pound key. One moment, please for the first question. [ Pause ] Our first question is from Chris Debona in a from sanford and Bernstein; you may ask your question. 

 CHARLIE DEBONA, SANFORD AND BERNSTEIN: Hi, Charlie Debona in a here with Bernstein. Had a question about the unearned revenue balances. Could you give us a little more color on what's driving the increases -- -- particularly in the enterprise phase and the certainly composition of two-year versus three-year long-term agreements there? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yes. Thanks, Charlie. We were real pleased with annuity and license program results for the quarter. And we're seeing a couple of things in the enterprise side of that. First, we have a much broader product line-up available to sell under our annuity programs from the server side than we have ever had. And we think we are real competitive with those products today. And what we are seeing is a much higher attach rate of server products in all forms of multi-year licensing agreements than we have seen historically. We would hope that would continue, but that's been a good result. And then secondly, the largest component of our licensing programs are the enterprise agreements. As part of the licensing 6.0, you'll note that we reduced the number of desk tops that were the minimum available under that program to 250. So we expect to continue to have good success with renewals or conversions to enterprise in the largest organizations, and you should expect us to over the next several years to be converting more select and open to EA's and mid-sized companies. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Charlie. Can we take the next question, operator? 

 OPERATOR: Charles McPeak with Prudential Securities. 

 JOHN MCPEAK, PRUDENTIAL SECURITIES: John McPeak at Prudential Securities, not Charles. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Hi, John. 

 JOHN MCPEAK: Hey, guys. Not that it's a huge increase, but it was mentioned also in the discussion of the cash flow. Could you just talk a little bit about the increase in the DSO and what caused that? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yeah. The DSO number, whether you calculate it with unearned or not, did tick up to about 65 days. That's due to two factors. One is that we had the large volume of licensing business relative to prior quarters. And then secondly, we did have stronger volume in this quarter than the prior quarter with our Xbox business that has slightly longer terms. We did do a real thorough analysis and we don't think there is anything unnatural or any risk to the company or the results going forward into '03. It was just a result of the strong licensing and Xbox business in Q4. 

 JOHN MCPEAK: The licensing was as you approached the July 31st deadline, it was skewed towards the end of the quarter? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Historically, the June quarter is strong and the month of June is strong. 

 JOHN MCPEAK: Okay. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Consistent with our fiscal year end. This was just a little bit stronger than years past and did kick that DSO up. That combined with Xbox. 

 JOHN MCPEAK: Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks. Can we take the next question? 

 OPERATOR: Rick Sherlin with Goldman Sachs. 

 RICK SHERLIN, GOLDMAN SACHS: Thanks. I wonder if you can comment on the enterprise agreements and the volume agreements? Were you happy with, uhm, how much these -- of these agreements were harvested during the June quarter versus what you are looking for for July, uhm? Is there a lot still out there yet to harvest in July? And related to that, you guys had made the comment that you expect of the 7.7 billion of unearned, 6 billion to be recognized over the year. Now, as I recall, uhm, some of these agreements of software assurance go on the balance sheet every year as they're billed. So I guess the question is: How much of that is going to be renewed? Do you -- Maybe the best way to think about it is, do you expect the unearned balance to grow over the next year versus being depleted over the next year? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yeah. Thanks, Rick. You know, the -- we had good success in the quarter with our renewal rate of EA's, whether that was in large verticals, multinationals, or mid-sized companies. There is a large number of EA's up for renewal throughout fiscal year '03, and I think the sales force feels pretty good about where we stand in that renewal process. Secondly, the -- what we show on the balance sheet is unearned in short term. That will all be earned in the next 12 months. And then as we do subsequent billings for EA'S, the balance sheet will reflect that. To the extent we are being successful with the large volume of EA'S that come up for renewal and to the extent we are penetrating the mid market successfully as we have in the past, the enterprise agreement portion of unearned will grow, and the real question is how successful are we moving the select and open contracts over the course of fiscal year '03? If we're -- if we are successful with our licensing programs, you should expect the unearned balance to grow through throughout the year. If the unearned balance isn't growing throughout the year and I wouldn't expect it to grow probably the way it did in June, that should be a signal for you guys that our underlying growth rates in the out years run a risk. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Rick. Can we take the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Briar Dudley, Seattle Times. 

 BRIAR DUDLEY, SEATTLE TIMES: Hi, guys. Could you talk a little bit more about the change with the class action settlement? You sounded like were you going to fold that back in because you don't expect to pay out the costs of that settlement. Is that correct? And also, if you could discuss any plans to expense options [allah Warren Buffet]. That would be terrific. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Thanks, Briar. I probably wasn't clear in my comment. What I was trying to explain was what our growth rate would be on a GAAP reported basis '02 to '03 of the operating income line. If you keep the accrual in '02, which we are, our operating income growth on a GAAP-reported basis would be 12 to 14 percent. If you want to compare the underlying growth rate excluding that item, which is not in the normal course of our business, we hope, you get a growth rate of 6 to 8 percent. That liability still exists and that reserve expense stays in our P&L. And there is no new news there to update. On the stock option front, we are following the debate closely. I do want to point out that we think we are a model for reporting stock option expense under the current accounting pronouncements. We publish every quarter with our financial addendum, and in our 10-Q what the results of stock options would be on the quarter's results. The recurring accounting requirements are that you publish it annually. We show what the effect would be on every, single part of our business, R&D, G&A and sales and marketing, which is further disclosure than is requested. We try to be very clear about the dilution and what the dilutive effect is of the stock option program. If the regulatory system, legislative system, standard-setting system, arrives at a decision that stock options should be expensed, we will follow suit, and we will strive to give the best disclosure of anybody to investors about that effect. 

 BRIAR DUDLEY: Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Briar. Can we take the next question, please. 

 OPERATOR: Barry Meeker with Morgan Stanley. 

 MARY MEEKER, MORGAN STANELY: Thanks. Dave and I have a question and clarification. You talked about your stock purchases in the quarter. It was an impressive number. Could you give us a little sense on the context of that past and future and how you are thinking about the cash generally, certainly get a lot of questions about that. And then one clarification on the new reporting plan. Will you give that to us? You give that to us quarterly in the 10-Q, will you also provide the operating income or the profitability by division, or will that be an annual thing or a not at all thing? Thanks. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Thanks, Mary. Yeah, the quarter, this was a pretty robust quarter for stock repurchase. I think it was the largest quarter in our history. We ended up for the year buying back about 6 billion which was consistent with the prior year. We are very mindful of using that balance sheet for dilution to fight dilution. To the extent we can't earn good returns on the cash or we can't find good investments from a strategic perspective, natural use for the cash is the buyback. In terms of our revenue categories, as well as how we'll report in the future, we will use these revenue categories for reporting. We will use them for guidance, and we're finalizing our segment decisions that we'll share with you guys next week. But it's likely going to be along the lines of this with maybe some modification. 

 MARY MEEKER: Thank you very much. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Can we take the next question, operator. 

 OPERATOR: Chris Galvin with J.P. Morgan. 

 CHRIS GALVIN, J.P. MORGAN: Thanks. John, if you could go into a little more detail on the unearned revenue growth during the year. Of that $2 billion build-up, is there a certain amount that we could associate with transition to licensing 6.0 or the movement to get current? And then I didn't catch the answer to the earlier question on how much is -- should we think about is still to happen in terms of getting current and that final month? Is there a pretty substantial build-up that didn't happen or close in the June time frame? Thanks. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yeah, thanks, Chris. The -- of the unearned balance that we end the year with, the portion that is EA's or from our volume licensing program; generally EA's, UA, SA is about 4.3 billion of it. In terms of the opportunity moving forward, you know, there's a large number of accounts up for EA renewal, which we are going to work very hard to win. There is a large number of open and select contracts that expire throughout FY '03 that we'll work very hard to convert to LS&A. So the -- we should expect to see the balance continue to increase. And in terms of the current quarter, I don't have anything more to say other than the guidance we provided you, and we'll be able to share with you in October how we think we did. 

 CHRIS GALVIN: Okay. Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Chris. Operator, can we take the next question. 

 OPERATOR: Chris Shurlakus with Merrill Lynch. 

 CHRIS SHURLAKUS, MERRILL LYNCH: Thanks very much. One housekeeping question. John, you mentioned a charge to terminate this sales and marketing relationship on the MSN side. I was wondering if you would just quantify that charge. And then in terms of the outlook by geography, can you just run through the regions and give us a feel of where you feel best by region and where the most risk might exist from where you see it now? Thanks. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yup. Thanks, Chris. That charge was about 50 million in the fourth quarter for the termination of the agreement. In terms of the geographies, our U.S. business and our Canadian business have just had a great year, terrific year. We are -- our Latin-American business is facing some pressure. It's consist extent with some of the economic and political issues in certain of those very important countries. Asia was -- had a good year, and we now, you know, look at Asia separate from Japan in some ways. Japan had a tough year but appears to be on some potential for improvement or maybe no further decline. And then we saw good strength in our Amia region in the fourth quarter with year-over-year growth of 7 percent. One big issue we are following closely is: What does the dollar-to-yen and dollar-to-Euro exchange rate look like for the year? And that's something that we'll track closely. So our big geographies I think just did pretty well. 

 CHRIS SHURLAKUS: Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Chris. Can we take the next question please, operator. 

 OPERATOR: Dave Green with Business Week. 

 JAY GREEN, BUSINESS WEEK: Hey, John, you mentioned that the knowledge worker line was going to grow low double digits in fiscal '03. And I want to make sure I understand why that is, given that it grew just about 1 percent in fiscal '02. What's the -- you mentioned that there would be a business that was booked this year that will come in next year. I want to get some specifics on that. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yeah. If you look at the unearned revenue business for desktop applications or the knowledge worker, we had real strong growth in signing contracts under licensing 6.0. So we'll see good, strong growth in recognized revenue in '03 as a result of licensing activity in '02. Secondly, Jay, the '03 numbers will include Navision, while '02 has no Navision revenue. And then finally, we are expecting our business solutions group to have nice growth. That's the great Plains b central groups. And we would expect client access licenses to grow. But the biggest component of it is the licensing activity under 6.0. 

 JAY GREEN: And in which products are those specifically? Is that mostly Office? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Yeah. It's Office. 

 JAY GREEN: Okay. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Thank you, Jay. 

 JAY GREEN: Thank you. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Operator, I think we have time for just two more questions. 

 OPERATOR: Drew Brusoe with S.G. Cowen. 

 DREW BRUSOE, S.G. COWEN: Hi. Thanks. Uhm, my -- another one around the new licensing approach. It's sort of two things. One, do you have any sense of what the penetration of -- particularly around Office is of people who have gone on to some form one way or the other of a subscription sort of license? And secondly, is there any -- do you see any risk that you have pulled forward purchasing activity in those items via the licensing 6.0 deadline, and that after the September quarter there is a risk of things slowing down materially? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: You know, our licensing programs historically have been designed principally to sell desktop products because that's what we had to sell. As our server line-up has grown, servers have become a larger percentage. But the penetration or the inclusion of Office in those subscription agreements is very, very high. There would be very few that didn't have Office. In terms of our business prospects going forward, you know, I think the -- they are -- like I mentioned, there is a large EA renewal pipeline. There is a large number of existing mid-sized accounts that don't have enterprise agreements. And we have a large number of -- of, uhm, open and select agreements up for renewal. I would not expect the kind of unearned revenue percentage increase that you have seen in this year. But to the extent people see value of the current version of Office and the future version, to the extent we continue to excite them with our desktop client and to the extent we continue to gain share in server, that enterprise business will grow as the unearned balance should grow accordingly. If we are not seeing year-over-year growth in the unearned revenue on the balance sheet, it is something you guys should be concerned about. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thanks, Drew. Operator, can we take the last question? 

 OPERATOR: Don Young with UBS Warburg. 

 DON YOUNG, UBS WARBURG: Yes. Thank you. I was wondering if you could give us a feel for your site licensing today and how much is split between select, open, and EAs. And also, the question came up a couple of times. I don't think you directly answered it. But the movement diversions, or licensing level, or the new licensed version 6, has that driven more EA sales -- more enterprise agreement sales than anything else, would you say, John, for people who are looking at making a switch? 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: I think, you know, the -- our preferred contract is -- is really the -- you know, is the enterprise agreement. And you know, the key is that we really do want to get in a model with our customers where it's an annuity relationship. And they have the value of maintenance and they have the value of services. And we have a model where it's easier for them to deploy and support software such that they stay current. In terms of the -- those agreements that cover a site, the enterprise agreement would be the overwhelming majority. 

 DON YOUNG: What about the mix between the three different options. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: The enterprise is the largest, Don. 

 DON YOUNG: Is it over 50 percent? 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Don, we don't disclose that level of details. Suffice it to say that the enterprise agreements piece is the fastest growing. 

 DON YOUNG: Thank you very much. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thank you, Don. 

 JOHN SEAHAWK: Thanks, Don. 

 KRISHNAN SRINIVASAN: Thank you, everybody, for your participation in today's call. If you have any further questions, please feel free to call me directly. As I mentioned at the top of this call, it will be available on replay at our Investor Relations website through the close of business next Friday, July 26. In addition, you can dial in to hear the replay by dialing (800)925-4627, pass code 1418. Or for international calls, dial 402-220-4183. Pass code 1418. Thank you very much for joining us today. 

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | i49411 : Video Game Consoles | icmpse : Computer Servers | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Electronics
   NS
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e21 : Government Finance | e211 : Government Taxation/Revenue | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy7i005kn
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q3  2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
7,212 words
   PD
18 April 2002
   ET
09:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Krishnan Srinivasan, Senior Director of IR   . Scot Boggs, VP & Corporate Controller   . John Connors, CFO   . Tom Burt, Deputy General Counsel 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Microsoft reported for the quarter ended March 31, 2001 revenue of $7.25b. Operating income for 3Q02 totaled $3.3b. Diluted EPS for 3Q02 was $0.49, which includes a $0.15 gain on the sale of Expedia and a $0.14 charge related to investment impairment. 4Q02 EPS is expected to be $0.41 or $0.42 and for the full year $1.54 or $1.55. 

 FINANCIAL DATA 

 A. Key Data From Call   1. 3Q02 revenues were $7.25b.   2. 3Q02 operating income totaled $3.3b.   3. 3Q02 diluted EPS was $0.49.   4. Desktop Application revenue was about $2.4b in 3Q02.   5. The Consumer Software, Services, and Device segment revenue      totaled about $1.1b for 3Q02.   6. Cash and short-term investments totaled almost $39b in 3Q02.   7. Forecasting total net revenues to be in range of $7-7.1b for 4Q02.   8. 4Q02 operating income to be between $2.9-3b.   9. 4Q02 EPS is expected to be $0.41 or $0.42 and for full year      $1.54 or $1.55.   10. 4Q02 operating income expected in the range of $2.9-3b. 11. Diluted EPS expectation is in the range of $0.41 or $0.42 for 4Q02.   12. Full year EPS is expected to be $1.54 or $1.55.   13. Expects FY03 revenues in the range of  $31.5-32.4b.   14. Operating income is expected to be in the range of $13.3-13.6b      for FY03. 15. EPS expected to be in the range of $1.89-1.92 for FY03. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS (Krishnan Srinivasan)   1. For the quarter ended March 31, 2002 revenue was $7.25b, a 13%      increase over the $6.40b reported in 3Q01.   2. Operating income for 3Q02 totaled $3.3b compared to $3b in 3Q01.   3. Diluted EPS for 3Q02 was $0.49, which includes a $0.15 gain on      the sale of Expedia and a $0.14 charge related to investment      impairment. 

 B. OVERVIEW OF THE QUARTER'S RESULTS (Scot Boggs)   1. All growth comparisons mentioned will be with the comparable      quarter - 3Q01. 2. Net revenue grew 13% to $7.25b reflecting good growth against a backdrop of mixed economic and industry trend.   3. The PC market was a little better than expected resulting in      good growth in Desktop Software.   4. This was offset by continued softness in enterprise IT spending      and underlying Server unit sales that impacted the Enterprise      Software and Services revenue.   5. Revenue growth from MSN advertising and Internet access was      healthy.   6. Although initial sales of Xbox was slower than expected in Japan      and Europe, they still contributed the majority of revenue      growth in the consumer segment.   7. Managed expense base carefully and delivered $3.3b in operating      income, a 10% increase from 3Q01.   8. Continued to see corporate customers take advantage of      multi-year volume license agreement such as Enterprise      agreement, upgraded Vantage, and Software Assurance (Phonetic).   9. Since the accounting rules require the company to defer the      revenue from these agreements and recognize it ratably over the      life of the contracts, quarterly growth rates are dampened      somewhat despite stronger license growth.   10. As a result of this Microsoft saw a healthy 30% YoverY increase      in unearned revenue on its balance sheet.   11. Revenue earned in 3Q02 from previously deferred amounts      continued to increase and represented almost 30% of total      revenues in 3Q02. 

 C. PC DEMAND (Scot Boggs)   1. Estimates that total PC unit shipments worldwide declined about      3% in 3Q02.   2. Despite this being the fourth consecutive quarter of declining      shipment, this was somewhat better than Jan. expectations.   3. By region, the US declined in the low single-digit, but this was      a significant improvement vs. past quarters especially in the      consumer segment.   4. Japan continues to be very weak with double-digit decline and      EMEA (Phonetic) was down just slightly.   5. Expects PC shipments to begin growing some time in the next six      months.   6. Continues to see momentum from Windows XP during 3Q02.   7. Overall Desktop Platforms revenue grew 11% to $2.3b reflecting      increased penetration of business Windows.   8. This growth was largely driven by licensing in the OEM channel,      although Microsoft continues to see good results in the finished      goods channel following last quarter's launch.   9. In 3Q02 Windows XP represented nearly 60% of all operating      systems sold with new PC, a faster penetration rate than any      other operating system Microsoft has ever shipped.   10. As in the past several quarters, growth in the OEM revenue      outpaced the general PC market as the company continued to      benefit from changes in mix of products and customers.   11. The single biggest contributing factor for this was again the      mix of Windows 2000 and XP Pro.   12. As a percentage of all 32-bit operating systems reported to the      company, business versions of Windows were 47% in 3Q02 up from      35% in 3Q01.   13. Additionally sales of Office and Server products in the channel      did a little better than expectations adding to the OEM growth      rate.   14. For the third consecutive quarter Microsoft continued to see      growth in the system builder channel, which again gained market      share in 3Q02 against the multi-national OEM where prices are      lower due to higher volume discounts.   15. In the past OEM growth rates have been favorably impacted by      the recognition of unearned revenue from prior quarters.   16. The company had cautioned that this trend would begin taper off      and in fact it had less of an impact on 3Q02 results. 

 D. DESKTOP APPLICATIONS BUSINESS (Scot Boggs)   1. Desktop Application revenue grew 1% to about $2.4b.   2. This was a little better than the guidance and is the result of      reasonably solid performance of Office.   3. As discussed last quarter the mix of annuity-based license continued to trend up as a percentage of total business, which does have the effect of dampening growth rates for this product.   4. In the enterprise space Microsoft's revenue grew only 2% to      $1.3b. 5. There are a couple things contributing to the modest performance here.   6. First, the company still sees enterprise customers being very      cautious in their IT spend.   7. Second, the shift to more annuity license similar to the Desktop      Application business is beginning to affect the Server business      as well.   8. Excluding services nearly 40% of the total enterprise billings      in 3Q02 were related to multi-year annuity licenses.   9. This is nearly twice the relative mix from 3Q01 and is reflected      in a 23% YoverY growth in unearned revenues related to this      segment on the balance sheet. 10. Still reasonably pleased to show positive growth and increased share given the difficulty many of the peers appear to be going through.   11. Server platform revenue grew 6% despite a decline in total      server hardware shipments.   12. At the beginning of the quarter Microsoft expected full FY02      server units would decline by just under 3% with Intel based      servers faring a little better than non-Intel servers within      that number.   13. Based on what was seen in 3Q02 expects the full year to come in      a little worse probably declining in the mid single-digits.   14. Growth in Server Application revenue was only 1%.   15. The trend towards annuity sales has been greater than      anticipated for this segment.   16. In particular nearly 30% of SQL and Exchange licenses in 3Q02      were annuity based, up from the mid single-digit mix in 3Q01.   17. Even with that impact SQL Server revenues actually grew strong      in 3Q02.   18. SQL's continuing double-digit growth compared to double-digit      revenue declines by the company's primary competition   proves      SQL is gaining market share.   19. Recent SQL Server wins include EDS and Unilever.   20. 3Q02 saw a very successful launch of Visual Studio .NET.   21. In the last six months after launch Microsoft has shipped over      1m copies of Visual Studio .NET and the .NET Framework.   22. The majority of developers purchased this product via MSDN subscription where again revenues are deferred and recognized rateably (Phonetic) over the next 12 months.   23. As a result Developer tools revenue declined about 12% from      3Q01.   24. `DUE TO DIFFICULTIES IN CALL AUDIO, THIS PORTION OF THE EVENT      BRIEF SUMMARY HAS BEEN EXCLUDED.`   25. Has seen incredible partner, developer, and customer enthusiasm      for this tool set.   26. Disappointed with Enterprise Services, which only grew about 9%      during 3Q02.   27. The company has significantly cut back its expectations on      services until it sees a rebound in corporate IT spending. 

 E. CONSUMER SOFTWARE, SERVICES, AND DEVICE SEGMENT (Scot Boggs)   1. The Consumer Software, Services, and Device segment revenue      totaled about $1.1b for 3Q02.   2. Xbox launched in Japan, Europe, and Australia in 3Q02 and met      with great critical reviews.   3. However, overall sales of Xbox in 3Q02 came in just a bit below      expectations.   4. Sales in North America remains solid following seasonal and industry trends and came in about where it was expected.   5. In Europe the just announced price cut will make Xbox accessible      to a broader audience of gamers.   6. Has had great response to Xbox from reviewers, developers, and      consumers and the company wants to make sure that price is not      an obstacle to the Xbox experience.   7. Sales in Japan have been a bit more challenging but not wholly      unexpected. 8. Had recognized that Japan would be its toughest market.   9. The real highlight for this business has been the success of      Xbox games for both Microsoft and its third-party publishers.   10. Microsoft's Halo - the widely popular action adventure game      passed the 1m mark in 3Q02, faster than any other      next-generation console game thus far. 11. Over 20 Xbox games have sold more than 100,000 units, which brings the games attach (Phonetic) rate in North America to      about 4.1 per console.   12. For context, Sony in the comparable period after launching PS 2      in North America had a game attach rate that was under three per      console and only eight of their games had eclipsed the 100,000      unit barrier.   13. The bottom line is that Xbox has sold 25% more consoles and 80%      more games than PS 2 had in the respective launch periods.   14. MSN continued to execute successfully also turning in an      outstanding revenue growth of over 40% in 3Q02. 15. Despite facing difficult advertising market conditions, MSN bucked (Phonetic) the trend with double-digit advertising      revenue growth.   16. The highlight was MSN's advertising partnership with NBC and      the Salt Lake City Organizing Committee for the 2002 Winter Olympic Games that drew advertisers like McDonald's, Office      Depot, and Universal Pictures.   17. MSN Internet access revenue also grew at a good pace as a      result of increased average subscriber base and a higher trend      in average revenue per subscriber.   18. MSN continues to further establish itself as the number one      network on the internet.   19. As stated in past quarters, MSN is the number one in total      unique users worldwide, number one in communications with MSN      Hotmail and MSN Messenger, and number one in Search. 

 F. REST OF THE INCOME STATEMENT (Scot Boggs)   1. Total operating expenses in 3Q02 were $3.9b with the largest      increase coming from cost of revenue reflecting the cost      associated with Xbox.   2. Excluding this cost of revenue, operating expenses grew just 2%      due to moderate headcount growth and careful management of discretionary spending.   3. This YoverY comparison is also benefited by the new accounting      rules, which require goodwill to remain on the balance sheet      until impaired.   4. 3Q01 includes about $70m of goodwill amortization and without      goodwill in the prior year the non-COGS operating expenses still      would have grown less than 5%. 5. As a result of this moderate expense growth, operating income for 3Q02 totaled about $3.3b, up 10% from 3Q01.   6. Investment income includes two items.   7. First, Microsoft recognized the gain from the sale of its      interest in Expedia in 3Q02.   8. The total gain was $1.25b, which was about $400m higher than      expected due to both a higher conversion value and fewer shares      tendered by minority shareholders.   9. Second, the company recognized $1.2b in impairment charges in      3Q02.   10. This was primarily related to the investment in AT&T, which      will be converted into AT&T - Comcast common stock upon the      closing of the AT&T Broadband Comcast agreement that is expected      by the end of 2002.   11. On an YTD basis Microsoft has now recognized about $3b in      impairment charges and written these investments down by almost      40%.   12. While the company believes that additional impairments of these      investments is unlikely, it could happen in the future.   13. Continues to be committed to the strategic business      relationships these investments represent.   14. Reported diluted EPS of $0.49 in 3Q02.   15. Compared to the Jan. guidance of about $0.50 Microsoft was      about $0.06 better in operating income, $0.07 better in      investment income with $0.05 of that due to the Expedia gain and      $0.02 on a portfolio return less the $0.14 taken in recognized      impairments.   16. Cash flow from operations was another significant highlight in      3Q02.   17. Generated a record $4.1b driven by strong operating results, continued growth in unearned revenue, and a reduction of      accounts receivable following the seasonally high sales in 2Q02. 

 G. BALANCE SHEET (Scot Boggs)   1. Total assets were $68.4b and stockholders' equity was $54.3b at      the end of March.   2. Cash and short-term investments totaled almost $39b, about flat      with 2Q02. 3. As cash balances grow the company continues to look for new ways to diversify its portfolio to both reduce risk and maximize returns.   4. As a result, in 3Q02 invested nearly $3b of its short-term      investments into diversified equity positions, which shows as an      increase in the equity investments and other line on the balance      sheet.   5. Accounts receivable decreased sequentially $865m reflecting      normal seasonal collections in 3Q02 with DSO down to about 51      days.   6. For calculating DSO changes in unearned revenue should be      included in the average sales number so that it is consistent      with what is included in receivables.   7. As mentioned earlier the unearned revenue balance grew almost      $300m sequentially to $6.9b.   8. This is up over 30% from a year ago, led by the mix change to      annuity license programs from traditional organizational      licensing and package product sales.   9. The average diluted weighted shares outstanding are about even      with 3Q01.   10. Microsoft continues to actively manage its dilution through various buyback programs, and in the last 12 months has used almost $4b to repurchase about 62m shares of its stock. 

 H. KEY ELEMENTS IN 3Q02 RESULTS (John Connors)   1. Microsoft is extremely happy with the operating results for 3QFY      02.   2. Although revenues were a hair lighter than expected, is very pleased with the level of operating profit.   3. This was driven by continued awareness across the company of the      need to be more efficient in the way the company uses its      discretionary R&D and marketing dollars.   4. Will continue to make big bets for the long term on products,      technologies, services, and people.   5. Had made an announcement today about Xbox prices in Europe.   6. Microsoft is very encouraged by the progress it is making with      Xbox.   7. The North American region is on track.   8. Software sales and attach rates are strong and Microsoft is very      well positioned relative to where Sony was at a similar point      following the launch of PS 2.   9. Xbox has met with very positive reviews in Europe as well with      solid sales and attach rates in key markets like the U.K.   10. The announcement today to drop the price of Xbox in Europe to      299 EUR and 199 pounds is expected to attract a much wider range      of gamers in that region.   11. This price point puts Microsoft at parity to Sony and competitive relative to Nintendo.   12. The prices in Europe are also effective in Australia where the      market dynamics and technology standards are similar.   13. Japan was the toughest market to crack with Xbox.   14. The company has not had much traction in Japan and sales have      been less than expected.   15. Success in Japan is based on taking a long horizon, building      relationships, and focusing on great content.   16. We also recognized the impairments in 3Q02 primarily related to      the investment in AT&T.   17. The accounting treatment of these investments does not reflect      a change in Microsoft's belief or commitment in their long-term      strategic value. 

 I. GUIDANCE FOR THE 4Q02 (John Connors)   1. PC shipments for the March quarter were in line with the      expectations.   2. Expectations for 4Q02 and FY03 reflect some guarded optimism in      the direction the market is taking.   3. Expects the PC shipments to be flat to down slightly for the      4Q02.   4. Expects the PC market to see growth in the low single digits for      FY03 vs. the low single-digit declines expected for full-year      FY02.   5. Forecasting total net revenues to be in range of $7-7.1b for      4Q02 with operating income between $2.9-3b.   6. EPS is expected to be $0.41 or $0.42.   7. Expects Desktop Software to be up in the mid to upper      single-digits.   8. Within the Desktop Software category, the company is expecting      Desktop Applications to be flat or up just slightly.   9. With desktop platforms up in the mid teens, Windows XP continues      to fire on all cylinders.   10. In the Enterprise Platform and Services segment, the company      expects to see revenue growth in the low to mid single- digits      for 4Q02.   11. IT spend levels are lower than expected. 12. This has had an impact on both Server Platform and Server Applications business as well as Enterprise Services.   13. The market for Intel-based servers, while weaker than expected      in the current quarter, is still doing better than the high-end      Unix market.   14. This gives Microsoft a distinct advantage over vendors like Sun      and Oracle.   15. The Windows 2000 Server product family continues to advance      strongly against Sun.   16. SQL Server 2000 out ships Oracle on the NT 2000 platform.   17. Expects this advantage to continue and the gap to continue to      widen.   18. This quarter will also represent the first full quarter of      sales for Visual Studio .NET, which is gaining a lot of traction      via the Microsoft Developer Network.   19. On Consumer Software, Services, and Devices area, MSN continues      to do well with strong ad sales despite a weak environment.   20. Expects this trend for MSN in 4Q02 with YtoY growth a little in      the low-to-mid teens.   21. Based on the current view of the business Microsoft expects      Xbox shipments through June will likely be in the 3.5-4m range      vs. the previous guidance of 4.5-6m console shipments.   22. This revised forecast reflects the ongoing weakness in Japan      and also accounts for the many weeks of sales opportunities lost      in Europe while the product was at the higher price.   23. The 4Q02 and FY2003 guidance also incorporates the pricing change for Europe announced earlier today.   24. In total, Consumer Software, Services, and Devices segment is      expected to come in just under $700m in revenue.   25. The remainder of the revenue streams, Consumer Commerce,      Investments, and Others is expected to be between $132-142m for      4Q02.   26. Cost of revenue expected to decline sequentially to 17% or      slightly under for 4Q02, reflecting the lower forecast for Xbox      consoles.   27. R&D expense expected to pick up sequentially to be under 17% as      well, which is a sequential growth of about $120m.   28. Expects sales and marketing expense to be up sequentially to      about 21% of revenue.   29. General and Administrative expense is expected to be about 4%      of net revenue for 4Q02.   30. The company is looking to bring in its operating expenses at      just under 40% for the entire 4Q02, that is, operating income in      the range of $2.9-3b.   31. Investment income is expected to be slightly lower for 4Q02.   32. Expects it to trend at about $500m.   33. The effective tax rate for the year is expected to be 32%. 34. The share count used for calculating EPS is expected to be just under 5.6b for the full year.   35. Diluted EPS expectation is in the range of $0.41 or $0.42 for      4Q02. 

 J. GUIDANCE FOR FULL YEAR (John Connors)   1. Based on the guidance for 4Q02, the company expects to exit FY02      with revenues in the range of $28.1-28.2b and operating income      of about $12.5b, excluding the $660m estimated expenses for      settlement of the consumer overcharge class action lawsuit.   2. Including this estimate, operating income is expected to be just      north of $11.8b for the full FY02.   3. Full year EPS is expected to be $1.54 or $1.55. 

 K. GUIDANCE FOR FY03 (John Connors)   1. Expects FY03 revenues in the range of  $31.5-32.4b.   2. Operating income is expected to be in the range of $13.3-13.6b.   3. EPS expected to be in the range of $1.89-1.92.   4. The senior leadership team at Microsoft has always emphasized      the need to make and nurture big bets.   5. Specifically the company is focusing on the following areas.   6. Investing significantly in a dedicated knowledge worker sales      force with the emphasis particularly on selling to small and      medium sized businesses.   7. The company has a significant increase in sales resources      devoted to selling server solutions and reaching developers.   8. In R&D, the company will continue to sustain the broad level of      investment on multiple fronts, while increasing investments      focused on the tablet PC, mobility solutions, storage, and      security.   9. In business solutions, the Great Plains division has some      significant new products on the horizon that will need development and sales focus, and the company is making      investments there to build a great long-term business.   10. MSN has made great progress against AOL, and expects to      continue that trend in FY03. 11. Accordingly, the company will continue to fund additional customer acquisition activities during the course of FY03.   12. Will also continue to invest in Xbox.   13. Price erosion is a reality in this business, and the company is      factoring that into its FY03 thinking.   14. The company believes that if it executes well, it can end FY03      with an installed base of between nine and 11 million consoles.   15. These incremental investments are likely to drive incremental      operating expenses of about $800m in FY03.   16. Will continue to work hard at managing the discretionary cost      structure more efficiently.   17. FY03 provides Microsoft a remarkable opportunity to realize its      potential of having multiple successful businesses. 18. Microsoft is well positioned today and believes that if it invests and execute well it will end FY03 in an even stronger position for creating and sustaining long-term shareholder      value. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  You brought down revenue guidance a little bit for FY03. However, you did indicate that unearned revenue has been a little higher than you had expected and that has been apparent in the last several earnings reports. Could you give us a sense, if you go back 6-12 months when you began giving guidance for FY02, was the impact of unearned revenue has been relative to the revenue projection? The operating margin in the quarter was much better than expected, excluding investment gains, and on a peer apples-to-apples basis,  the operating expense was up 2% YtoY was very controlled. The  consumer loss during the year clearly kind of $1.5-$2b all in. You  are clearly focused on efficiencies. Could you give us a sense of  what you think happens with the operating margin at FY03 plays out?  Any thoughts on whether, operating margin for the company goes up or  down in FY04 vs. FY03? (Mary Meeker, Morgan Stanley Dean Witter) 

 A.  The key thing about looking at unearned revenue vs. our revenue expectations for 2003 will really depend on how we end this quarter and how the month of July goes as we move to the LS&A deadline. So  we will have a better idea in July. If you look at the short-term  unearned revenue balance that we end March with, that is revenue  that we will recognize over the next 12-month without anything other  than accounting movement from the balance sheet to the income  statement. So it gives us a base of revenue that I think people can  feel very good about going into 2003. The second part in terms of  margins for 2003, we'll get the benefit of the annuity business in  Office hitting in 2003 that helps margins. The PC market should be a  little bit better, that's a high-margin business, but we will see  faster growth in revenue from our low-margin businesses throughout  2003 than we saw in 2002. So cost of goods will get hit relative to  2002, but we think we have a good forecast for what that would be.  In terms of our management of expenses, there's lots of Microsofties  listening to this call, they've done a fantastic job at a grass  roots level, at a mid manager level, at an executive level managing  expenses and we're all shareholders and option holders here and we  just have to keep the pressure up on expense and given the size of  our expense base if the grass roots level continues to do it, it has  an enormous impact. We're not forecasting the kind of impact in 2003  that you've seen YTD, but we're going to work hard on efficiencies. 

 Q2.  The street I think was looking for about $0.51 in earnings, which included $0.10 from Expedia. So that would give you operating  earnings of $0.41and it looks to me that it came in at $0.48 from  operations if we back out all the Expedia and the charges and the  sort of non-operating stuff. So the $0.48 from operations. Do you  agree with that? (Rick Sherlund - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  We probably had another penny of investment income excluding Expedia, excluding the impairment that was due to gains on our bond fund. Our operating earnings per share are $0.06-0.07 higher than  what we had guided. 

 Q3.  The expenses and the kind of revenue breakout for 2003, you're not  going to be specific at this time. You said you had an idea, a handle on the gross margin item. Is that something you can give us  an idea of where that might come out in 2003 vs. 2002 given your assumptions for Xbox? (Rick Sherlund - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  If you look at the range of revenue that we have, the range is really probably a function more of where we think we'll come out  with our final plan for Xbox as well as MSN, and given that range is  broad, we want to see how 4Q goes particularly with Xbox before we  finalize our cost numbers. 

 Q4.  How will the investments that you are making will translate into headcount? Do you have a percentage growth or round number of additional bodies that you might add? (Brier Dudley - Seattle Times) 

 A.  We will be adding headcount in the Peugeot Sound area (Phonetic) and  we haven't finalized the distribution of headcount in Peugeot Sound  (Phonetic) employees vs. non Peugeot Sound (Phonetic), but we will  be adding employees in the Peugeot Sound (Phonetic) region. The largest percentage of our additional headcount resources will absolutely be customer facing and customer satisfaction oriented. So it will be to drive revenue and to drive customer satisfaction,  where the majority will go. 

 Q5.  Do you a number for the percentage of growth for employees? (Brier  Dudley - Seattle Times) 

 A.  We do not yet. I think Deborah N. Willingham our senior VP of HR would be able to sit down with you later in the quarter as we get  that finalized. 

 Q6.  Beginning with 2QFY02, as stated in your 10-Q filing, you changed your revenue recognition for certain products shipped through the  OEM channel to book the revenue on a sell-in basis as opposed to the previous sell-through basis. Clearly sell-in is a little more aggressive than sell-through which is a little more conservative. To what extend of that change in the way you book revenues for those products with the OEM channel aid your OEM revenues or total  revenues in 3Q? (Sanjiv Hingorani - Dresdner Kleinwort Benson) 

 A.  A few investors have called since we filed that 10-Q and there really is no impact on revenue. It's a change in reporting from our OEMs vs. a change in revenue recognition. Historically our OEMs  would report to us 30 days after the close of a month with the unit  sales that they had shipped of our products. We would generate an  invoice at that time. In order to have the appropriate GAAP numbers  for the period we report to the SEC and to shareholders, we would  call down and use estimates to determine what that OEM accrual in  that month should be. We've moved to a different distribution model  that allows us to get real-time reporting, essentially, from our OEM  channel when they ship units. So the impact on revenue is immaterial  to zero, and the only difference is that we get the report of when  they ship, as opposed to 30 days later and then having an estimate. 

 Q7.  If I could focus on the enterprise business for a moment. If you could talk about how the business kind of proceeded through the  course of the quarter. A number of enterprise software companies  have talked about March being a particularly weak month. Did you see  that? Going into 4Q, how much of that lower estimate is driven by  business showing up more on the balance sheet and where you'd see it  on the P&L? (Chris Galvin - JP Morgan H&Q) 

 A.  We didn't see deterioration in the quarter. The environment generally in the largest economies of the world is challenging. The thing we do want to make clear is based on what we saw IBM report. They had a 12% revenue decline YoverY. Oracle says they're going to  be down 16% and Sun, I think they're down 20% YoverY. We're growing  and we're gaining share from every one of these folks. And we're  going to continue to gain share, we think. It's a tough environment,  but we're in a good position with the price performance of our  products. Folks had to sell hard to meet the numbers they delivered.  In terms of our forecast for 4Q, our desktop forecast is up maybe  just a bit.  The enterprise forecast is down just a little bit but  pretty much consistent and where we've taken down our 4Q forecast is  for our expectation that our Xbox shipments will be lower. 

 Q8.  On the software assurance side of the program, can you give us a feel of how those multi year annuity streams breakdowns into to one, two, and three-year type of deals? Are those mostly three year deals that you are negotiating currently? Could you give us a sense of  what percentage of eligible customers right now have taken software assurance and do you anticipate extending the deadline for kind of reupping (phonetic)on those contracts? (Chris Shilakes - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  The enterprise agreements are generally three-year agreements. The software assurance is two-year terms. And in terms of the percentage of customers who have moved to the license and software assurance,  we don't break that out, but it's not a significant percentage of  all the organizations in the world and it's too early. We're hopeful  that we'll get a good result in 4Q and through July, and then we  obviously have a large number of contracts in 2003, particularly  select and open contracts that we'll be working hard to sell the  value of LS&A. So three year for an enterprise agreement, two years  for software assurance, a small percentage have moved to LS&A to  date and it's too early to predict how we will do buy hopefully  we'll do well. 

 Q9.  So the bulk would be EA right now in those multiyears? (Chris Shilakes - Merrill Lynch) 

 A.  Yes. The most probable are the large EAs. 

 Q10.  I am wondering if you could just clarify on this incremental $800m  in the fiscal year, if that is from what you described? It sounds  like it's mostly sales and marketing spend. In terms of the enterprise agreements in your side licensing, it sounds like you are getting some pretty strong growth in new areas like servers. Could  you give us a feel for where EA mix is today inside licensing and a comparison with the same period a year ago? (Don Young - UBS  Warburg) 

 A.  In terms of the $800m in incremental spend, it is more heavily weighted to sales and marketing, particularly when you include the customer acquisition for MSN, and in terms of what of that money is fixed that hits us in 2004, it's probably   somewhere just north of half of it is the bow wave effect. In terms of the enterprise agreement mix, the enterprise agreement mix for our server and (Indiscernible) business as represented in our unearned balance  YoverY for the   enterprise segment, it is growing rapidly, but it's  hard to quantify where we'll get to by the end of this year or next  year.I think the balance is at about  $400m in revenue now on the  balance sheet, 390, which is up 47% from the prior year balance. But  it's too early to tell what percentage of those customers will get  moved. What we are really focused on for the analysts meeting,  though, and for next year is having an easier way for you guys to  model what the effect of LS&A is. 

 Q11.  Is it your perception that street estimates for FY03 included an assumption of some gains for next year? It sounds like your current guidance for $1.89 to $1.92 includes no assumed gain. Comment? On  the platform business, given the make shift it seems to be  flattening out in terms of movement towards business versions of the  operating systems. When do you anticipate the growth of the platform  revenues to converge on your assumptions for PC unit growth? (Drew  Brousseau - SG Cowen) 

 A.  We don't have any significant material gains assumed in our 2003 forecast, nor do we have any material accounting changes assumed in the forecast. In terms of the penetration of Windows XP Pro and platform growth, we saw good growth YoverY in the percentage of Windows XP Pro units from 35% a year ago to 47% this year and we're hopeful that we can continue to move that number up. If you look at the mix of business PC's to consumer PC's, there still is room to  move that percentage north. We won't get the same kind of growth  that we've gotten absolutely YoverY in 2002, but with a little luck  on the PC unit front and some good work continuing to drive that PC  penetration to the relative mix of business machines, we should  still see PC growth be lower than our platform growth. 

 Q12.  You guys have been making long-term investments for a long time and  typically the return on those investments has been pretty good. Now  you're telling us you're going to do another year of some pretty heavy investing and that's a good thing. But you know, from an outsider's point of view it looks like the returns are getting a little marginalized here. What are you going to do internally or  what are you doing internally to make sure the dollars you're  spending are going to give us a decent return in 2004 or whenever?  (Scott McAdams - McAdams, Wright & Ragen) 

 A.  That's a very fair question. The first order of business is really continuing to sustain and then grow those two unique franchises  called the Windows client and the knowledge worker/office business. Investments in 2003 are really intended to grow the knowledge worker and the client business.  Secondly, we feel that we've done an extraordinarily good job, investing and building our enterprise business, and I think we're beginning to scale in that enterprise business. As we grow the revenues, the profit increases we get from that revenue will continue to increase as a percentage over time. So  I think the enterprise business will be a good contributor. With  respect to MSN and Xbox, we hope we've been clear that these are  long-term investments that in the short term don't generate profits.  However, I think if you look at the success we've had particularly  in the last 2.5 years with MSN, we're in the game there, we could  reduce the loss over the next couple of years and get to profit.  After that, Xbox, the next year is critical but we're in a good  position, and business solutions we think we're in a good position  for the long term. For us to prove to investors that you're getting  the kind of management in return, we are very focused on having  end-to-end views of these businesses and end-to-end profit targets  for these businesses with leaders accountable for their results  improving and over the next 12 months we will report out to you how  we're doing in each of them and most importantly, we have to  outperform the rest of our tech peers. To the extent we're growing  profits more than them, I think that's how you measure our success,  and it's pretty darn clear we're outperforming the peer companies  that we compete against. If we don't continue to outperform, it's  pretty clear what happens to our market cap. 

 Q13.  The $3 billion you're doing in diversified equity investments, are  you managing that internally? Have you farmed it out? Is it something we need to worry about in terms of the types of  investments or waking up someday and finding there are more  impairment charges? Can you give us a little visibility on that?  (Scott McAdams - McAdams, Wright & Ragen) 

 A.  Some of those funds are managed internally and some outsourced to third party fund managers who you would recognize and others on the call would recognize. Those investments are more diversified than  the historical emphasis we had on short-term interest-bearing  investments and we've done an elaborate amount of study and due  diligence to look at how we could diversify our portfolio to mostly  eliminate interest rate risk. We had high interest rate risk because  of the concentration in short-term interest-bearing instruments. So  we wanted to reduce our interest rate risk, still have plenty of  liquidity and get a slightly higher return without undue levels of  risk. So I think we're in good shape that you wouldn't see the kind  of impairments you've seen on some of the vertical, large-scale  strategic equity investments we've made. If you did see that, you  would probably have a different CFO and a different treasurer. 

 Q14.  Regarding your assumptions for the PC upgrade cycle, we're getting a  little long in the tooth after Y2K replacements and I'm thinking  about as you guys think about how your customers look at this issue,  when do you think that's going to start in earnest if at all? (John  McPeake - Prudential Securities) 

 A.  You know, there's a reason for some level of optimism that 2003 and  then certainly 2004 begins to see a positive growth rate in PC units  as a result of refresh in businesses and then a replacement cycle of  consumers. Our anticipation is that the PC market begins to rebound a little bit in the FY2003 time frame, and then 2004 could become a better year if it doesn't happen in 2003. So, our expectation is  that we begin to see some effects of the PC recycle upgrade in 2003,  and then our longer-term thinking is that 2004 also has some of  that. 

 Q15.  So towards the end of 2003, am I right? (John McPeake - Prudential  Securities) 

 A.  Yes. That would be a fair assessment. 

 Q16.  A clarification on 4Q02 reduction in guidance on the revenue mainly  coming from lower Xbox assumptions. Why is the EPS going down given  the low gross margin there and second I was wondering if you could  articulate further what your data feeds are, that come into play with the higher assumption in PC growth in 4Q02? (Jim Moore - Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown) 

 A.  In terms of 4Q02 net income, EPS, and operating margin, we're looking at operating income that we think in our forecast is  actually down just modestly from what would have been Jan. guidance.  I think it's probably somewhere in the neighborhood of on an  operating income basis maybe $100m to maybe $200m lower. That's due  to the to the fact that we are expecting lower console shipments and  it's factoring in the price effect of the action we announced in  Europe. In terms of net income you also have to factor in that we  are probably somewhere around $70m to $75m lower in our investment  income forecast for 4Q02 than what the majority of the models have  out there and versus what the guidance we provided in January would  imply. 

 Q17.  Did you have any clarification on how you came to this slightly higher PC growth for the 4Q02? (Jim Moore - Deutsche Bank Alex. Brown) 

 A.  Basically we do kind of a three-way approach to arriving at PC unit  shipment forecasts. We look at third-party groups and we have contracts with each of them. Secondly, our geographies do a forecast of what they think is going to happen and then our OEM division has close contact with the accounts they manage and try to estimate  where things will be.From there the controller group along with  the Windows marketing group builds a quarterly forecast and they vet  (Phonetic) that forecast real heavily and based on that, they think  it looks like things improved this quarter, and we think the trend  will continue next quarter versus our Jan. guidance. 

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | i49411 : Video Game Consoles | i836 : Accounting | iacc : Accounting/Consulting | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | ielec : Electronics
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy4i003a7
  


 HD
 Abstract of  Q2  2002 Microsoft Earnings Conference Call - Final 
   WC
6,461 words
   PD
17 January 2002
   ET
10:30 PM GMT
   SN
Financial Disclosure Wire
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) Copyright eMediaMillWorks, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.). All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 CORPORATE PARTICIPANTS 

 . Krishnan Srinivasan, Microsoft Corporation, Senior Director, Investor Relations   . John Connors, Microsoft Corporation, Chief Financial Officer &     Senior Vice President   . Scot Boggs, Microsoft Corporation, Vice President & Corporate     Controller 

   TD
 OVERVIEW 

 Revenue was $7.74 billion, an 18% increase over the $6.55 billion reported in the prior year, for the quarter ended December 31 2001. Operating income totaled $2.84 billion compared to $3.19 billion in the prior year. Operating income for the December quarter included a $660 million charge for estimated expenses in connection with certain class action lawsuits. 

 PRESENTATION SUMMARY 

 A. HIGHLIGHTS   1. Revenue was $7.74 billion, an 18% increase over the $6.55      billion reported in the prior year, for the quarter ended December 31 2001.   2. Operating income totaled $2.84 billion compared to $3.19 billion      in the prior year.   3. Operating income for the December quarter included a $660      million charge for estimated expenses in connection with certain      class action lawsuits.   4. Including this charge, net income for the quarter was $2.28 billion.   5. Diluted EPS for the December 2001 quarter was $0.41 including      the $0.08 charge for the charge noted above. 

 B. FINANCIAL RESULTS   1. Net revenue for the quarter grew a strong 18% to $7.7 billion      primarily reflecting a very successful launches of both Windows      XP and Xbox this quarter.   2. Pleased with these results given continued uncertainties about      the global economy and declining PC sales.   3. Another big factor that impacted results was a much-larger-than-expected signing of multi-year volume license agreement such as Enterprise agreements; upgrade advantage maintenance, and software assurance by the company's corporate customers.   4. Expects to see the same trend in the future quarters. 5. Reported revenue on Desktop Applications and Enterprise Software segments were negatively impacted this quarter.   6. The unearned revenue on the balance sheet grew over 29% YOY,      assuring a good steady stream of revenue for future quarters. 

 C. PC MARKET   1. Estimated total PC shipments for the quarter declined about 5%      with consumer PCs slightly worse than business PCs, which is a      little worse than expected at the start of the quarter.   2. In PC shipments, the United States was better than last quarter,      but still declined by double digits YOY, both Europe and Asia      were flat to down and the ICANN (Phonetic) was down in the high      single digit.   3. The company believes that PC shipment will continue to decline      in mid single digit at least through the remainder of the fiscal      year.   4. Despite these trends, the launch of Windows XP was very      successful; the most successful launch of a new operating system      in the history of this company.   5. Retail sales have been very good, exceeding expectation and      demonstrating the excitement from home users for Windows XP.   6. Business customers such as EDS, Wells Fargo and Siemens deployed      Windows XP in this quarter.   7. Over 17 million licenses of XP have been sold on new personal      computers and by retailers; OEMs and retailers have sold more      than 2 copies per second since the launch.   8. Desktop platform revenue was a record of $2.55 billion, growing      a healthy 24% from a year ago.   9. Little less than half of this growth was due to the strong      retail sale with the remainder coming from strong results in the      OEM channel that continues to benefits from the trends discussed      in the previous quarters.   10. Continued to see an increase in the average revenue per license      in the OEM channels due to the mix of products, customers, and      other factors.   11. The mix of Windows 2000 and XP Pro as a percentage of all      32-bit operating systems reported to the company was 45% this      quarter, up from 31% last year.   12. This was down slightly from the record 48% last quarter due to      the relative strength in home versions of Windows XP this      holiday quarter.   13. This trend continues to prove that the customers realize a      business PC should really just come with Windows 2000 or XP      Professional.   14. Saw strength in the System Builder channel which gained market      share this quarter against the multinational OEMs, where prices      are a little lower due to volume discounts.   15. Also the company saw some uptick in the mix of products other      than Windows being sold to the OEM channel, which also helped      its average revenue per license.   16. As in the past year or so, growth was favorably impacted by the      recognition of unearned revenue from prior quarters, when PC      growth rates were higher.   17. The company is realizing the benefit of strong OEM sales from      prior years, a portion of which revenue it earned (Indiscernible).   18. This trend will have a smaller impact in future quarters.   19. Launch of Xbox in North America was a big highlight for this      quarter.   20. Sales of Consoles, Games, and Peripherals all finished ahead of      expectations.   21. Sold 1.5 million Xbox video game systems through the end of the      year at the high-end of its range and significantly ahead of its      competitors who also launched this quarter.   22. Over 36 games are already available for Xbox and according to      independent sources; over 3 games have already been sold for      every console. Xbox has proven to be a great platform for video      games, both for the company and for the third party game development partners.   23. Microsoft games like Halo, Project Gotham Racing and NFL Fever      2002 were among the top sellers this holiday. 24. In total, third party developers sold 50% more software for Xbox this quarter than they did for Game Cube.   25. All in all the launch of Xbox was one of the most successful in      the history of the video game industry.   26. The momentum for Xbox is very good which bodes well for      upcoming launches in Japan and Europe later this quarter.   27. The company is extremely happy about the success of this product. 

 D. DESKTOP APPLICATION BUSINESS   1. Desktop application revenue declined 1% to $2.45 billion.   2. Softness in the retail market, lower PC shipments, and      continuing weakness in the economy of Japan, where the company      gets significant portion of revenue from Office Suites bundled      with PCs shipped at retail - all had a significant impact on the      Office business.   3. Saw a higher than expected shift to annuity licensing program      which lead to lower revenue earned in the current quarter.   4. While some of these were offset by revenues from Microsoft Great      Plains products and growths in desktop CALs, the company expects      these trends to impact Office business through the remainder of      the fiscal year.   5. In the Enterprise base, revenue grew a modest 4%.   6. Uncertainty about the economy has continued to have an impact on      IT spending by corporate customers.   7. Server products continued to gain momentum in market share.   8. Despite IDC estimates that server shipments actually contracted      about 8% in this quarter, Server platform revenue grew 2%,      particularly on the strength of Windows 2000 Advanced Server. 9. Growth in the Server Application revenues was 9%, impressive in light of the surge in this revenue base a year ago.   10. Also experienced more strength than expected in the annuity      volume license business for .NET Enterprise Server family.   11. This is reflected in the strong 25% YOY growth in unearned      revenue for Enterprise Software and Services.   12. The net impact of this trend is that while the company      continued to have solid sales for the .NET Enterprise Servers,      more of this revenue is deferred to future quarters.   13. Nevertheless, saw good strength in SQL Server, Exchange, and      the other .NET Enterprise Server products.   14. Had some super customer wins this quarter as well for the .NET      Enterprise Servers including Verizon and (Indiscernible).   15. Although Developer tools' revenue declined to more than 20%      from the prior year, the company sees a lot of excitement about      the impending release of Visual Studio. NET.   16. The company has distributed over $2.5 million Beta copies of      Visual Studio and had over 7000 developers attend the Professional Developer's conference in late October.   17. Happy to announce that the company had released to      manufacturing the final code for Visual Studio.NET and it is      already available for download by MSDN subscribers.   18. It is clear that developers share enthusiasm for the .NET      initiative and the February 13 launch is an event the company is      looking forward to. 

 E. CONSUMER SOFTWARE SERVICES AND DEVICES SEGMENT   1. MSN also had a very good quarter in terms of business and      revenue results.   2. Revenue from MSN including Internet access and online      advertising grew over 40% this quarter, fuelled by growth in the      MSN subscriber base.   3. Total MSN subscriptions now exceed 8 million, which includes over 7.7 million MSN Internet access subscribers and over 300,000 premium service subscriptions like Hotmail Extra      Storage. 4. MSN search being ranked first in the US in terms of reach by Jupiter Media Metrix.   5. Search is the second most popular activity on the web after      email, which incidentally the company is #1 with MSN Hotmail.   6. The overall online advertising market does continue to be soft.   7. Yahoo reported yesterday that their revenues have declined 39%      this quarter.   8. MSN advertising sales were about flat YOY and given the context      the company thinks it is a respectable result.   9. MSN e-shop had a great holiday season attracting 106% more shoppers than last year.   10. Had several great advertising customer wins by signing      multi-year, multi-million dollar advertising alliances with      Volvo and Bank One.   11. The other major portion of Consumer Software Services and      Devices segment is revenue from PC games, learning, and      productivity products - all of which declined largely due to the      decline in home PC sales this quarter.   12. Cost of goods sold increased significantly due to cost associated with Xbox, although the total was a little less than expected due to overall product mix.   13. Total operating expenses for the quarter was $3.3 billion      including $660 million charge related to the pending state class      action lawsuits.   14. The Court denied preliminary approval of a nationwide      settlement earlier this year; accounting rules require that we      continue to recognize this as a liability until the cases are      resolved.   15. This amount is little higher than the $550 million estimate      that was announced in November due to further review of expected      cost.   16. Excluding this charge, operating expenses for the quarter would      have been about $2.7 billion.   17. This reflects, YOY growth of just 8% due to moderate headcount      growth and careful management of discretionary spending.   18. This YOY comparison is also benefited by the new accounting      rules, which require goodwill to remain on the balance sheet      until impaired.   19. The prior year quarter does include about $76 million of      goodwill amortization.   20. Operating income for the quarter totaled about $2.8 billion,      but again excluding the legal charge, it was up 10% YOY      reflecting stronger than expected revenue in moderate expense      growth.   21. EPS for the quarter was $0.41 but excluding the legal charge      EPS would have been about $0.08 higher, or $0.07 or $0.08 better      than expected in October. 

 F. BALANCE SHEET   1. Total assets were $65.4 billion and stockholder equity was $51.5      billion at the end of December.   2. Cash and short-term investments totaled $38 billion.   3. Cash flow from operations grew 22% to $3.6 billion primarily      driven by strong growth in earned and unearned revenue;      partially offset by an increase in accounts receivables and      other working capital items. 4. Accounts receivables increased sequentially $1.5 billion reflecting normal seasonal increases in revenue including Xbox      this quarter with DSO just up slightly to 55 days.   5. If DSO is calculated from the reported numbers then changes in      the unearned revenues should be included in the average sales      number so that it is consistent with what is included in the      receivables.   6. Equity and other investments increased sequentially about $200      million to $12.2 billion at quarter end primarily due to      increased market values during the quarter and additional      strategic investments. 7. Unearned revenue balance grew over $770 million sequentially to $6.6 billion, up over 29% from a year ago led by the mix change      to annuity licensing programs from the traditional      organizational licensing and package product sale.   8. Reclassified a portion of the unearned revenue to long-term on      the balance sheet reflecting revenue expected to be earned more      than 12 months in the future. 9. Diluted average weighted shares outstanding were down slightly from the December quarter a year ago.   10. Continued to proactively manage dilution through various buy      back programs and within the last 12 months have repurchased      about 68 million shares of the company's stock. 

 G. KEY ELEMENTS IN THE QUARTER RESULTS   1. Launched 2 landmark products from Microsoft this quarter and      they are both off to a terrific start.   2. The arrival of Windows XP marked the beginning of a      fundamentally new era in consumer and business computing.   3. The results are strong sales of retail, enthusiastic adoption by computer manufacturers, and a groundswell of partners support      for peripherals, accessories, and applications.   4. The strong retail results are the function of the product      launch.   5. Xbox is the first step in Microsoft's long-term strategic vision      for the future of home entertainment.   6. Delivered a strong launch and a wide array of exciting software      titles.   7. During the quarter, saw strong adoption of volume licensing      programs, specifically annuity programs like enterprise      agreements and upgrade advantage.   8. There was a shift in the product mix, much greater than      anticipated in favor of these license types primarily in the      office and server business.   9. The net effect of the mixed shift in the current quarter was      that the company recognized less revenue for these products on the income statement that was expected and deferred more to the balance sheet.   10. In addition to the mixed shift phenomenon, did see lower sales      across the entire enterprise segment as anticipated. 11. While the company believes that it gained share in this segment, demand worldwide was wider as expected.   12. Excluding the accrued liability for the proposed legal      settlement, pleased with the growth in operating profits this      quarter.   13. Will maintain the focus on discretionary cost but will not      reduce the more important focus of investing for the long term      in products, sales, services, and people. 

 H. GUIDANCE FOR FY 2002  PC DEMAND 

 1. The global PC market continued to deteriorate in the December quarter with all major economies around the world reflecting the weakness.   2. Although the month of December was somewhat better than expected, the company does not feel that it is a recovery leading to positive growth in the near future.   3. Believes that the second half of FY 2002 will continue to be      weak with mid single digit declines in Q3 and Q4.   4. As a consequence, believes that PC shipments for the full year      FY 2002 will decline over the prior year with the rate of      decline in the mid single digits.   5. The PC business is a great business for Microsoft in the long      term but it does appear that the current challenges have not yet      passed.   6. In light of the revised view of the PC market and the global economic environment, now expects the full year 2002 revenue to      be in the range of $28.8 billion to $29.1 billion or up 14-15%      over FY 2001.   7. Operating income will be between $11.5 billion and $11.8 billion.   8. At the bottom line, expects diluted earnings per share to be in      the range of $1.57-$1.60.   9. The operating income and diluted earnings per share guidance      includes the $0.08 charge taken in this quarter as an estimate      for the settlement of class action law suits as well as the      $0.20 investment impairment reported in Q1.   10. For Q3 2002, revenue is likely to be in the range of $7.3 billion to $7.4 billion with operating income in the range of      $2.8 billion to $2.9 billion.   11. Earnings per share should be $0.50 or $0.51, which includes the      expected gain from the closing of the Expedia transaction. 

 I. FY 2002 GUIDANCE ON BUSINESS SEGMENTS  DESKTOP SOFTWARE 

 1. Expects Desktop software to be up in the lower to mid single digits for the full fiscal year and a few points shy of that for Q3.   2. Within this category, looking for Desktop applications to be flat or to decline slightly for the full year with the possibility that the business could decline slightly in the      March quarter.   3. This is driven primarily by 2 factors:     1. Office sales for the December quarter were adversely affected        by the economic situation in Asia, specifically Japan. The        weakness in the Japanese business will continue through the        remainder of fiscal 2002.     2. If the company continue to see the current mix of annuities        carried forward in Q3 and Q4 then there will be an impact of        the net revenue line; however, this impact moves revenue to a        later quarter.   4. Desktop platforms will be up in the low double digits for the      full year and up in the mid-to-high single digits for Q3.   5. The company is coming off a great launch for Windows XP with      strong retail and OEM penetration; however, it is cautious about      PC sales in the second half of the year and does not anticipate      the retail results experienced in the December quarter. 

 ENTERPRISE PLATFORM AND SERVICE SEGMENT 

 1. In the enterprise platforms and services segment, expects to see revenue growth in the low double digits for the full year and in the high single digits, possibly reaching double digits in Q3.   2. The services business will continue to grow well but the company      is tampering the forecast from prior guidance for 3 reasons     1. The current economic environment has driven a lot more        conservatism around IT budgets and they are not strong        indicators that this will reverse in the second half of the        year.     2. The weakness in the underlying market for Intel based servers,        which began during the December quarter, has not yet shown        signs of recovery.     3. As with the Desktop applications business, the enterprise        platform and services segment is affected by the shift in        product mix to annuities which has an impact on the quarter in        which the revenues are earned.   3. These trends are somewhat offset by the launch of      visualstudio.net, which is going to be an exciting new product      and development frame work for developers and it does contribute      to the growth of this segment in the last half of the year. 

 CONSUMER, SOFTWARE SERVICES, AND DEVICE 

 1. Based on the current quarter results, primarily for Xbox, the company is raising its forecast for this segment.   2. For the full year this business will probably come in between      $4.1 billion and $4.2 billion.   3. Came in at the high end of the December guidance for Xbox unit      volumes and the attach rate of games in peripherals was a little      better than expected.   4. Will carry these trends forward into the second half of the      year.   5. There are two major launches coming up in Japan and in Europe      that carry inherent operational risks.   6. Unit guidance for Xbox remains the same for the full year FY      2002 at between 4.5 million and 6 million units.   7. MSN with the launch of MSN 7 also contributed to the revenue      upside for the December quarter and the forecast for this      segment includes slightly stronger forecast for MSN in the      second half.   8. In the March quarter, the company is looking for revenues of      just under $1.2 billion for the entire consumer software      services and devices segment.   9. The remainder of the revenue streams, consumer commerce investments and other, should be between $815 million and $835 million for the full year and just under $200 million for the      March quarter. 

 J. GUIDANCE ON EXPENSES   1. Cost of revenue should be about 20% of net revenue for the full      year with Q3 coming a bit over 22% due to the consumer segment      growth expectations.   2. The sequential increase in R&D as a percentage of net revenue      from December to March is driven primarily by the seasonal      revenue growth experienced in December quarter.   3. Sales and marketing will probably be little below 19% of net      revenue for the full year with the March quarter taking up      slightly on a sequential basis to be a little over 19%.   4. The company launched Xbox in Japan and Europe and it continues      the investment in the Enterprise.   5. General and administrative expense will be about 5% of net      revenue for the year, primarily a result of the estimated legal      charges taken in Q2 with Q3 ended up under 3% of net revenue.   6. The company is looking to bring the operating expenses in about      40% of net revenue for the year, staying relatively flat with      fiscal 2001.   7. For the March quarter, the company will be little above 39% of      net revenue. 

 K. OPERATING INCOME   1. Operating income is one of the best measures of long-term      profitability targets.   2. Exceeded the operating guidance for first half of FY 2002, but      the full-year guidance is maintained in the range of $11.5-11.8      billion, which shows that the company is reducing the operating      income guidance for the last half of FY 2002.   3. The economic weakness in Japan is driving a lower target for the      Office business in that region.   4. Expecting a modest reduction from the previous guidance in the      Enterprise.   5. Partially mitigated these factors with good expense initiatives that continue on.   6. Investment income for the full year will be a little higher than      the prior guidance at just under $1.5 billion. 7. This difference is primarily due to a slightly higher expected gain associated with the Expedia transaction.   8. The March quarter will reflect the closing of the Expedia      transaction, and total investment income will come under $1.4      billion.   9. The company has recorded some large impairments in Q1, which is      reflected in the forecast for the full year.   10. The effective tax rate for the year will be 32%, and the share      count used for calculating EPS is likely to be just under $5.6      billion for the full year.   11. This brings the diluted EPS expectations in the range of $1.57      to $1.60 for the year and $0.50 or $0.51 for Q3. 

 L. IMPORTANT ASSUMPTIONS   1. These assumptions represent both risks and opportunities      depending on how they play out in coming months and quarters.   2. The forecast assumes that demand for PCs does not deteriorate      beyond currently projected levels, if it does there will be an      impact on revenues and operating income.   3. Results are dependant on corporate IT spend continuing at least      at current levels to the extent that medium and large      organizations cut back on the software-related expenditures.   4. The knowledge worker and server businesses could be adversely      affected.   5. It is too early to assume that recovery is underway in the major      economies around the world.   6. In terms of the growth and earning expectations for the coming      year, for the technology industry generally and Microsoft specifically, many must be assuming a booming recovery versus a more modest recovery.   7. The company does not see a booming recovery anytime soon.   8. Online advertising continues to be soft as a result of the      prevailing economic uncertainties.   9. MSN business has outperformed the broader market in terms of      percentage growth until now, but should the demand for online      advertising show further decline, the company would not be      immune to it.   10. Xbox is expected to have a great start.   11. This forecast relies on the company executed in the similar      fashion for Japan and Europe launches, where it faced the same      operational risks as it did with the North American launch.   12. The company does not underestimate the strong competitive      forces faced in all businesses.   13. Continued to face ongoing litigation and regulatory scrutiny. 

 M. CLOSING REMARKS   1. This was a very good quarter for Microsoft and happy with the      results at both the top and bottom line.   2. Successfully launched Windows XP, Xbox, and MSN under difficult economic environment, and they are all having a great start.   3. Operating income results were strong, driven in part by good      cost management.   4. Looking ahead, the company sees an admittedly mixed environment.   5. The market for PCs is likely to be weak for the rest of the year      as is corporate IT spending.   6. In the weaker economy, the company has a solid financial      foundation with good cash flow growth, a strong and growing book      of contracts for future years, and a diversification strategy      that are being executed successfully today.   7. Bill Gates and Steve Ballmer have built the company with a      long-term view.   8. This quarter results reflect the wisdom of sacrificing      short-term profits over the last several years to build      businesses for the long-term.   9. This long-term view is the right way to run a company and it is      now more evident than ever.   10. If the company executes well, Microsoft has a great opportunity      to deliver shareholder value for many years to come. 11. Launching Visual Studio. NET this quarter and excited about the product set (Phonetic), the development framework, and solutions      in .NET services companies.   12. Leimen (Phonetic) and his leadership team and the entire      Developer Tools Division have put forth a phenomenal effort;      they represent the essence of Microsoft. 

 QUESTION AND ANSWER SUMMARY 

 Q1.  Can you clarify on the operating income guidance excluding the things like the civil charge?Can you give a little color on the  fiscal 2003? (Mary Meeker - Morgan Stanley) 

 A.  Best way to think about the guidance for the second half of 2002 operating income is down slightly from what our full year guidance would be after taking into effect our operating income being higher than guidance, net of the legal accrual, in the December quarter. We are anticipating that our Desktop applications revenue to be down north of $300 million for second half of 2002. We are expecting that Enterprise will be down about $130 million from second half of 2002 guidance that we provided in October. We have other revenues of miscellaneous types that are down around $70 million. Platforms' revenue will be actually up about $150 million and Consumer  including X-Box will be up about $200 million. So on a net revenue  basis, we are down about $200 million from what the range of  guidance would be after adjusting for December.  Secondly, our COGS  (Phonetic) will be up due primarily to Consumer somewhere around  $150-200 million and operating expenses will end up being about $70  million higher than what our guidance would be. So, if you take all  of those factors revenue being a couple of hundred million less than  the December adjusted with (Indiscernible) COGS being probably a  couple of hundred million higher as a result of Consumer and  operating expenses being around $70 million. From an operating  income perspective, it is about $400-450 million lower than what  guidance would be if we added the December results to the prior full  year guidance. In terms of investment income, it is likely to be up  about $130 million from where we guided in October due to a higher  gain on Xpedia. In terms of 2003, we have not begun the detailed  planning. Looking at some of the earnings forecast for 2003, it  appears that for Microsoft specifically in the technology industry  people are expecting a quite strong economic recovery. 

 Q2.  On the strength in acceleration in OEM revenue growth in quarter, given the weakness in PC units and benefiting from a mixed shift.  Can you elaborate on that? Can you give us some sense of the overall contribution of X-Box hardware and software to the CSST line in the P&L? (Deu Breso (Phonetic) -  S G Cowen) 

 A.  With OEM, we did have appreciably stronger growth in the underlying  PC units. There are several factors.  A part of that is the unearned  revenue dynamics from earning back revenue that was previously  deferred. It also was impacted by higher Office revenue in OEM in  the prior year as well as higher Server revenue in the OEM channels  in the prior year. Secondly we continue to benefit from the mixed  shift to Windows 2000 and Windows XP professional and this penetration or the percentage of Windows XP Pro and Windows 2000 as  a percentage of total licenses grew to 45% in the December quarter  from 30% the prior year. So, a 50% increase. Lastly, we saw growth  in the system builder channel and our named segment channel over the  December quarter, the prior year when both of those were negative  and as you know those segments have higher average revenues per  license than our Multinational segments. In terms of Xbox, we do not  provide specific guidance on Xbox specifically other than the  channel. But, we were pleased with the aggregate revenue that we got  from the consoles. We were pleased with the attach rates of games  and we had a good quarter on Peripherals. 

 Q3.  On Xpedia gain, you were modeling about $650 million which was about  $0.08 a share. We need to move that from the June quarter and to the  March quarter now. Is it going to be $130 million more than that? (Rick Sherlund - Goldman Sachs) 

 A.  Our investment income in total will be up about $130 million we estimate. The Xpedia gain is likely to be $150 million or slightly north of $150 million higher than the $650 million and then we  expect to have slightly lower investment income that we had  anticipated due to current and potentially, future interest rate  reductions. 

 Q4.  If we had a chance to play with the numbers in the deferred side, directionally it sounds like given the mixed shift to license; if we were to make those adjustments play with the numbers, do you have a sense where the Desktop applications business and the Enterprise Software business growth rates would have come out, if you adjust  for the change to greater deferred revenue? 

 A.  There is really almost no way to quantify that.  We basically are working hard to get the Enterprise agreements, and the long terms upgrade advantage, and the software assurance contract signed. So,  we have not really kept track of what the future year, multiyear  versus what might have been. It is a kind of apples-to-oranges  comparison. If we had not introduced the multiyear contracts and the  licenses of software assurance programs, we would have expected  those revenue numbers to be higher. 

 Q5.  On Xbox, given the attach rate, and having new machine shipping, you  must be getting pretty close to break evens. If you lose 75 bucks on  a machine, it looks like you are making at least 60 given the attach  rate. Is that right? 

 A.  It is a business where selling the razor blades has better economics  than the razor. But, we are at the point now where we are just very  focused on Japan and Europe and as we get through this quarter and  the following quarter we will have a lot better sense of what that  model is going to look like for 2003. The other thing to remember is  the attach rate does include third party titles that have a slightly  lower margin for us than our own titles. 

 Q6.  Can you talk a little about the Enterprise servers and the EA agreements? Have you offered the nonperpetual license on the EA  versus perpetual? What has the take up been between the two options?  (Stan young (Phonetic) - UBS Warburg) 

 A.  We do have, under our licensing program and have had selected open for servers and also CALs have been included in our Enterprise agreements for some time. So we do have a way of offering multiyear agreements and licensing agreements for Servers and CALs both for NT File and Print as well as exchange in SQL have continued to grow. As we broaden our server line up, the sever platform agreements will continue to grow as an offering category. In terms of the perpetual and nonperpetual license, we are only couple of months into the changes to our licensing program. 

 Q7.  Can you clarify the $660 million charge related to legal expenses is  in light of the (Indiscernible) projection of the previous settlement and anticipating a new settlement? How much will be the legal expenses versus payout for a settlement? (Indiscernible) 

 A.  The $350-$375 million was actually an amount after tax and so the pretax estimate originally was really $550 million and that is how  you should compare the current estimate of $660 million. The  proposed agreement had a number of relatively complex provisions in  it and it has also been a moving target as our lawyers have  continued to work with various parties and that has driven some  changes. 

 Q8.  So there is a better understanding on your part basically? 

 A.  Right. 

 Q9.  Can you talk about the reduced expectation for PC until shipments,  which seem to be from your take and enthusiasm for the XP launch,  particularly with the 17 million in your shipment number across OEM  and retail? Can you comment about the lowered second half of 2002 guidance on income Desktop application and Enterprise, what sort of accounting issue is here? (David Wederman (Phonetic) - (Indiscernible)) 

 A.  On the reduced PC expectations versus the Windows XP results, we still anticipate that our Desktop platforms business is going to  show nice growth in the last half of the year relative to the  underlying PC growth rates.  The area where we have seen decline is  primarily in Asia and less rapid recovery in US as we expected. 

 Q10.  Can you comment on the guidance on the lower second half of 2002,  what sort of accounting issue is there? 

 A.  In terms of the overall lower half two guidance in relation to our ship to our enterprise ad multiyear licensing programs, the rough December estimate is about $600 million of contracts that we would have expected to see through the December quarter got moved to multiyear agreements and our sales organization selling into the Enterprise has a similar forecast for the second half of the year.  So, it is probably somewhere between $300-350 million. 

 Q11.  The $300 to 350 million that might have flown to the income statement as quarterly revenues that is now going to the balance  sheet and will come off on unearned or amortized revenues. Is that  correct? 

 A.  Yes exactly. 

 Q12.  Is that $600 million for quarter or for the second half? 

 A.  That was for the first half of the year that is the estimate. In terms of the second half guidance, we have taken down our  expectations for our sales in Japan as a result of slower PC  shipment and PCs that have Office bundled with them with  (Indiscernible). We do think that the second half we will see  slightly lower IT spending than we thought in October regardless of  the contract type. 

 Q13.  Can you give more detail on the geographic break out and comment on  the Europeon market dynamics that you see away from the conversation  around the Xbox launch? (Jim (Phonetic) - Deutsche Bank) 

 A.  If we break down our major countries, the biggest concern is clearly  Japan relative to our initial plan as well as our October expectation. Secondly, in the major economies of Europe, Germany and France are down from where we would have expected for the full year  on October with the UK holding up slightly better. The US business  is probably about where we thought it would be maybe slightly slower recovery in the second half than we would have thought in October. Those would be the majority of the countries I think that have the biggest effect on us. 

 Q14.  Your Enterprise agreements with your corporate customers are contributing to an unknown revenue, which means it is coming out of the IT budgets of those customers and on the flip side the  propensity of those customers to buy server and server related  products is being diminished and ultimately all of this comes out of  corporate IT budgets. Can you explain if there is a dynamic here  towards increased dollars going towards Enterprise agreements of  Microsoft because of renewed software assurance program or what is  going on here in terms of the dynamic of what Microsoft is getting  from corporate IT budgets? ((Indiscernible) - Dresdner) 

 A.  Our Enterprise agreements are billed annually so people pay every year and from the perspective of their expense it gets reflected multiple years. We do think that in each of our significant  Enterprise categories whether that is Enterprise Server platforms,  Database, Messaging and increasingly our broad array of .NET  Servers. We clearly feel good about our market share position,  however it is fair to say that our sales force is seeing is that lot  of IT budgets have come under pressure and their level of enthusiasm  for how quickly that will recover is lower today than it probably  was in October. But we are getting a better share than we had a year  ago and again the fact that people get billed and pay annually and  spread that expense in their budgets over the life of the contract  does help us in selling those multi-year contracts. 

 Q15.  Last quarter you gave pretty specific guidance on numbers on the SQL  and Exchange and Server platform performance, can we get that kind of detail for this quarter? Where specifically are you going to see weakness relative to your prior guidance in the Enterprise base  going forward? (Charlie Debono (Phonetic)- Sanford Bernstein) 

 A.  You should get our Addendum, it does include break down of Server versus Server Apps. With respect to our database growth in the  current quarter over the prior year that was in double digits. Our  messaging growth was in high single digit. In SQL Server we estimate  in total was up over 15% YOY including the (Indiscernible),  Messaging was not up as much and then our .NET Server line up which  includes Commerce Server, Host Integration Server, App Center Server  were up but that is from a small base. 

   CO
mcrost : Microsoft Corporation
   IN
i3302 : Computers/Electronics | i330202 : Software | i3302020 : Systems Software | i3454 : Electronic Consumer Goods | i4941 : Dolls/Toys/Games | i49411 : Video Game Consoles | icmpse : Computer Servers | icnp : Consumer Products | icomp : Computing | icph : Computer Hardware | ielec : Electronics
   NS
c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c17 : Funding/Capital | c171 : Share Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020020913dy1h000xu
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) not hd=event and co=msft
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
56
   Timestamp
5 December 2016 8:07 AM GMT
  
