 
•	 Q3 2016 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2016 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2016 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2015 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2015 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2015 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q1 2015 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q4 2014 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q3 2014 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Call - Final
•	 Q2 2014 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2014 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2013 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2013 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2013 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2013 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2012 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2012 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2012 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2012 Wells Fargo Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2011 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2011 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2011 Wells Fargo & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2011 Wells Fargo and Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2010 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2010 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2010 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2010 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2009 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q3 2009 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2009 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2009 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2008 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-recorded Conference Call - Final
•	 Q2 2008 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
•	 Q1 2008 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final
•	 Q4 2007  Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q3 2007  Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q2 2007  Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Record Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q1 2007  Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final   
•	 Q4 2006 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2006 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2006 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2006 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2005 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2005 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2005 Wells Fargo & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2005 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2004 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q3 2004 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2004 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q1 2004 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q4 2003 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Presentation - Final  
•	 Q3 2003 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	 Q2 2003 Wells Fargo & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
•	  Q3 2002 Wells Fargo Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final 


 HD
 Q3  2016 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
15,665 words
   PD
14 October 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin the conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our President and CEO, Tim Sloan, and CFO, John Shrewsberry, will discuss third quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our third quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our President and CEO, Tim Sloan.

TIM SLOAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, everyone. Thank you all for joining us today. A lot has happened since our last earnings call so our formal presentation this morning will be a little bit longer than usual. I couldn't be more proud of our financial performance in the third quarter and John Shrewsberry will be discussing those results more in a few minutes but I'd like to focus on the events of the past few weeks and the impact on our Company.

This week, John Stumpf announced he was retiring from Wells Fargo and the Board. He made this decision because he believed his leadership had become a distraction and therefore, the best thing for Wells Fargo was for him to retire. This action demonstrates the dedication John has had to Wells Fargo throughout his 34 years with the Company, including successfully leading us through the financial crisis and the largest merger in banking history.

As the new CEO, my immediate and highest priority is to restore trust in Wells Fargo. As you know, on September 8, we announced settlements with the CFPB, the OCC, and Los Angeles City Attorney related to sales practices in retail banking. I know that this is not the type of activity you expect from Wells Fargo and it's certainly not what we expect from ourselves.

We let down our customers, our shareholders, and our team members. We simply failed to fulfill our responsibility to all our stakeholders. Our vision of satisfying our customers' financial needs and helping them to succeed financially is about building life-long relationships one customer at a time.

The core values of Wells Fargo are as true today as they were a month ago, a year ago, and 164 years ago; however, we had serious problems in our retail bank where products became the focus rather than the relationships with our customers. Our senior management could have and should have done more. I'm fully committed, along with the entire leadership team, to fixing these issues and taking the necessary actions to restore our customers' trust.

We have a specific action plan in place to lead our Company forward during this period, which is focused on outreach to everyone who has been impacted by retail banking sales practices including our customers, our team members, our investors, our regulators, elected officials, and the communities that we do business in. It includes being transparent in our communication and we have included a lot of information in this quarterly supplement for you.

On Pages 3 and 4, we provide some background regarding the sales practices settlements, along with details of the account review that was completed by PricewaterhouseCoopers. I believe most of these facts are familiar to you, but let me highlight a few key points.

The 2.1 million consumer and small business accounts that were identified as accounts that may not have been authorized cost Wells Fargo much more than the $2.6 million of fees we received, which we have fully refunded. And let me clarify that these accounts had a de minimis impact to the retail banking household cross-sell ratio that we report on a quarterly basis with a maximum impact in any one quarter of 0.02 products per household or 0.3% of the reported metric.

At no time were all of the identified accounts included in our reported cross-sell ratio because unused deposit accounts rolled off. While the revenue generated was small relative to our annual income and the impact on our cross-sell ratio was not material, the implications for our Company and on the trust of our customers are significant.

We made several changes to enhance our oversight, expand customer transparency, and improve the customer experience, which we highlight on Page 5. Effective October 1, we eliminated product sales goals for our retail banking team members and next year, we will introduce a new performance plan based on updated metrics around customer service, growth, and risk management.

We want to make sure nothing gets in the way of doing what is right for our customers and the elimination of product sales goals has been positively received by both our team members and our customers. And we've made system and process enhancements, including sending automated e-mails, application acknowledgments, and multi-factor authentication. We expect to spend a total of over $50 million this year on enhanced quality assurance monitoring.

We've implemented an independent third-party mystery shopper program, targeting 15,000 to 20,000 annual visits to our branches to test actual product purchase interactions. We've added risk professionals to provide greater oversight and significantly expanded our customer complaint servicing and resolution process. We will continue to invest in process enhancements and product monitoring -- or proactive monitoring and we're committed to getting it right for our customers.

We're reaching out to all retail and small business checking, savings, credit card, and unsecured line of credit customers. And we're asking them to contact us if they have any concerns about their accounts or any aspect of their relationship with Wells Fargo. We have dedicated resources available 24/7 for inquiries and questions.

In cases where customers believe they have received a product that they did not want or authorize, and they are not satisfied with our resolution, we're providing an option of mediation through a third party that is convenient and free for the customer. Our team members are proactively calling and meeting with their customers in all areas of the Company.

Additionally, we've been working on contacting the credit card customers identified by PricewaterhouseCoopers. As a reminder, their analysis included all credit cards that were opened but not activated. There are a lot of reasons why customers don't activate their cards so we're trying to contact all unactivated credit card customers with open accounts to confirm whether they want their credit cards.

For consumer credit card customers identified, over half have closed their accounts, in part, reflecting the passage of time, as some of these accounts were opened five years ago. For those accounts that are still open, we've called 166,000 unactivated customers so far. And we've spoken with 34,000 customers who have made a decision whether to keep or close their account. Of those customers, 17% have said that they did not a apply for a credit card and 8% said that they did not recall applying for a credit card.

We are also focused on determining potential additional impacts that the identified consumer and small business deposit and credit card customers may have incurred. We've allocated significant resources to this effort. We're contracting with a third party firm to work with us as well as with the primary credit card bureaus to develop a plan for submission to the regulators for their approval.

Here is what we've learned so far. According to FICO, the impact on FICO scores from a credit card application varies based on a person's unique credit history, but in general, credit inquiries have a small impact on FICO scores. For most people, one additional credit inquiry will take fewer than 5 points off their FICO scores for a period of up to 12 months.

We're working on determining potential financial impact for customers who obtained a loan with Wells Fargo or another company during the 12-month period where their FICO score may have been impacted by the credit inquiry. For example, if the loan was from Wells Fargo and the customer was impacted by a lower FICO score, we will adjust the line size, modify pricing, and refund any additional cost incurred.

As we did with our original account analysis in all circumstances, our intent is to err on the side of the customer and to make it right. We've been actively monitoring and tracking our customer activity since the announcement.

In order to be as transparent as possible, on Page 9 we are providing data to compare activity levels across a number of metrics in retail banking. When analyzing these trends versus the prior month, it is important to remember that September had two fewer business days this year than August. While it is too early to determine the long-term impact and we're prepared for things to get worse before they get better, here is what we've observed so far.

Our customer traffic to our branches and call centers remained at typical levels for September. Customers calling and speaking to a phone banker are up 4% from a year ago, and so far, formal complaints related to sales practices have been less than 1% of the calls we've received. Historically, approximately 70% of Banker interactions are service, not sales related, and this percentage increased slightly in September.

Customer visits with bankers in our branches, a subset of overall customer traffic, were down 10% in September compared with the year ago. The lower level of interactions in September was driven by lower internal referrals, decreased product offerings and reduced marketing. We have begun to reintroduce marketing and will be gradually increasing our marketing efforts throughout the coming months.

The drivers of lower banker interactions also resulted in new consumer checking account openings declining 25% in September compared with openings in September a year ago. To put this in perspective, account openings were down 143,000 from a year ago on a base of 33.2 million accounts. We continued to have year-over-year growth in primary consumer checking customers, up 4.5% in September.

As a reminder, primary checking customers are those who actively use their checking accounts and therefore, this metric was not impacted by the accounts identified by PricewaterhouseCoopers. Our deposit customers continued to use their accounts, with balances up $6.5 billion in September compared with August, and debit card transactions up 9% from a year ago.

Lower referrals, marketing, and product offerings also impacted credit card applications, which were down 20% in September compared with September a year ago. Applications were down 77,000 from a year ago, compared with 7.8 million total active cards. We continued to see increased usage among our customers, with active cards up 9%, balances up 10%, and transaction volume also up 10% from a year ago.

We are also actively monitoring customer experience scores with over 80,000 branch customer surveys completed in September. Loyalty scores in September were down from an all-time high in August but were consistent with where they were as recently as two years ago.

We also asked customers about the quality of their most recent branch visit. The score in September was down from August but was also consistent with two years ago. Our enhanced focus on service seeks to bring these scores back to pre-settlement levels, as we work to rebuild confidence and trust with our customers.

We're also tracking the impact from the announcement on our other businesses, which we highlight on Page 10. Mortgage referrals from retail banking, which account for 10% of our year-to-date mortgage originations, were down 24% from August to September. Auto originations have been minimally impacted since over 90% of our originations were through the indirect channel in the third quarter. We remain focused on maintaining our deep and long-tenured dealer relationships, which drive most of our origination volume in our auto business.

Within wholesale banking, our team members are actively meeting with customers and responding to their concerns. There have been a few state treasurers and municipalities who have made public announcements about temporarily suspending certain business activity with Wells Fargo, while several others have reaffirmed their relationship with us. Overall, we did not see any meaningful change in business trends in wholesale banking late in the quarter and deposit balances were up 4% during the month of September, and loan pipelines were in line with the second quarter.

We've also seen minimal impacts so far within our Wealth and Investment Management business. September-ending deposit balances were up 1% from August month-end and up 11% from a year ago. Client transaction activity was muted in September but largely reflected the market environment.

Retail brokerage advisory flows in September were strong, up $1.6 billion from August. September closed referred investment assets, these are the referrals resulting from the wealth community banking partnership, were more than $1 billion, in line with prior trends, but these referred assets are dependent on banker referrals so we will be watching this trend very closely.

We've always believed that our team members are our most important asset and it's been disturbing to hear claims of retaliations against team members who contacted the ethics line. We are investigating these claims. We are also assisting former team members who left retail banking due to sales performance and who remain eligible for re-hire and applying for available positions at the Company.

Leaders throughout Wells Fargo have had ongoing regular outreach with their teams throughout our markets. Mary Mack, who is the new Head of Community Banking, has met with team members in ten cities so far to gather ideas, concerns and questions from front-line retail managers at all levels to help inform the go-forward strategy for a service-driven community bank.

Eight additional executive officers and their leadership teams met with more than 116,000 team members across the country. During these meetings, we're reinforcing our code of ethics, business contact -- conduct, ethics line, and non-retaliation policies. We're also shifting our language in retail banking training and communications to make it more customer focused, less sales focused, and reinforcing our commitment to do what's right for our customers.

We offer all of our team members competitive pay and benefits, which we highlight on Slide 12. For example, tellers and customer service representatives earn at least $12 an hour, 60% above the federal minimum wage. 99% of team members are eligible for Company-sponsored health benefits and our benefits programs cover more than 515,000 team members, spouses, domestic partners, and their dependents.

We believe that team member engagement is critical to our success and each Spring, our team members have the opportunity to take an anonymous survey administered through Gallup. It's a chance for our team members to share their perspective and what it's like to work at Wells Fargo. In 2016, over 90% of eligible team members participated in the survey and Wells Fargo's overall engagement scores were above 88% of the companies represented in Gallup's database.

While we ranked high on the survey, this is not a -- the only mechanism to identify team member concerns, like sales practices and we're implementing other ways for our team members to share their views with management. Our team members are active in the communities where they live and work and in 2015, the United Way ranked our Workplace Giving Campaign, the largest in the US, for the seventh year in a row. We've just finished our 2016 campaign last week and during the time that has been very challenging for our Company, our team members demonstrated their continued support for their communities. The preliminary contribution results are similar to last year.

We're also committed to team member development and last year, we invested $300 million in team member training in credit, risk, technology, and customer service. Additionally, we provided $21 million in tuition reimbursement.

As we move through this period, we will continue to be transparent regarding trends across the Company. John Shrewsberry will now discuss the details of our financial results.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Tim, and good morning, everyone. Our strong financial results in the third quarter were relatively straightforward and in order to allow extra time to take questions, my prepared remarks regarding our results will be shorter than usual.

I want to start on Page 13, with a few key takeaways from our third quarter results, which reflect the benefit of our diversified business model and the momentum across many of our businesses. For the 16th consecutive quarter, we generated earnings of greater than $5 billion. Our loan, investment and deposit balances are all at record levels.

Compared with the second quarter, we grew revenue, driven by growth in net interest income. Many of our businesses had their best non-interest income results in five quarters, including strong mortgage banking results. We grew revenue despite equity gains being at five-quarter lows and $780 million lower than a year ago.

Expense growth was driven by higher operating losses and a contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. Credit quality improved, including lower losses in our Oil & Gas portfolio, and our capital position remained strong as we returned $3.2 billion to shareholders.

Turning to Page 15, let me highlight a few balance sheet trends. I believe our balance sheet has never been stronger. We grew loans and deposits, and our liquidity and capital remained strong. Our funding sources grew in the third quarter, with long-term debt up $10.9 billion on $20 billion of issuances, including $9.2 billion that we anticipate will be TLAC eligible.

We also had strong deposit growth, up $30.4 billion from the second quarter. We purchased $57 billion of securities during the quarter, primarily agency MBS in our available for sale portfolio. The amount of securities purchased was higher than in prior quarters but wasn't outsized when factoring in that we did not add duration in the loan portfolio with interest rate swaps as we had in prior quarters. We remain asset sensitive and will benefit if rates increase.

Turning to the income statement overview on Page 16. Revenue increased $166 million from second quarter, with net interest income up $219 million. The slight decline in non-interest income was driven by a $303 million reduction in market sensitive revenue, which is at its lowest level in the past five quarters, and a decrease in other income, reflecting the $290 million gain on the sale of our Health Benefit Services business last quarter.

The $402 million increase in expenses from second quarter was primarily driven by a $243 million increase in operating losses on higher litigation accruals. We also had a $107 million contribution to the Foundation during the quarter. I will provide more detail on expenses later on the call.

As shown on Page 17, loans grew 6% from a year ago, and were up $4.1 billion from the second quarter. Commercial loans grew $1.9 billion from the second quarter on higher commercial real estate and C&I loans. Consumer loans were up $2.2 billion, with growth in first mortgage loans, auto, credit cards, student lending and securities-based lending.

On Page 18, we highlight year-over-year loan growth. I'm not going to highlight each portfolio, but as you can see on this page, we had strong and broad-based growth across many of our commercial and consumer portfolios.

As highlighted on Page 19, we had a record $1.3 trillion of average deposits in the third quarter, up $62.6 billion or 5% from a year ago, and included 8% growth in consumer and small business banking deposits. Our average deposit cost was stable with second quarter, at 11 basis points and up 3 basis points from a year ago, reflecting an increase in deposit pricing for certain wholesale banking customers.

Page 20 highlights our revenue diversification. Our results continued to benefit from our growth in earning assets and our diversified business model. Net interest income was up $219 million, or 2% from the second quarter, reflecting earning asset growth and one additional day in the quarter. The net interest margin declined 4 basis points from the second quarter, primarily driven by growth in long-term debt and deposits, partially offset by the benefit of earning asset growth. Net interest income grew 4% from a year ago, even with a 14 basis point reduction in NIM.

Noninterest income declined $53 million from the second quarter, which included a $290 million gain on the sale of our Health Benefit Services business and declined $42 million from a year ago, which included $780 million of higher gains from equity investments. Across a number of our fee businesses, we had the best results in five quarters, including deposit accounts, trust and investment, mortgage banking, and lease income.

Our Mortgage Banking results reflected strong residential and commercial mortgage originations. Residential origination volume was $70 billion, up $15 billion, or 27% from a year ago and up $7 billion from the second quarter, which is typically the strongest quarter due to seasonality in the purchase market. Applications were up 5% from second quarter and we ended the third quarter with a $50 billion unclosed pipeline, the highest since second quarter of 2013.

Our production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgages was 181 basis points in the third quarter, up 15 basis points from the second quarter. Given our strong pipeline at the end of the third quarter, we currently expect origination volume in the fourth quarter to be up from a year ago, but down slightly from the third quarter due to seasonality in the purchase market. And we currently expect the production margin in the fourth quarter to be at or above the upper end of the range of the past five quarters, which was 188 basis points.

As shown on Page 23, expenses increased $402 million from the second quarter, driven by $243 million of higher operating losses, reflecting increased litigation accruals. Operating losses could continue to increase related to outstanding legal matters, such as sales practice issues, as we've disclosed, or as we've disclosed in our 10-K filing, RMBS. $125 million in higher salaries due to an extra day in the quarter and FTE growth, $107 million donation to the Wells Fargo Foundation, and higher FDIC insurance expense, reflecting the increase in deposit assessments.

Expenses also reflected lower foreclosed asset expense from commercial foreclosed asset recoveries and lower commissions and incentive compensation expense, reflecting the forfeiture of unvested equity awards from John Stumpf and Carrie Tolstedt. Our efficiency ratio was 59.4% in the third quarter and we expect the efficiency ratio to remain at an elevated level.

While our expenses increased this quarter, we remain focused on managing expenses while actively reinvesting in the franchise for future growth which we highlight on Page 24. We focused on reducing non-core businesses in order to simplify our organization and to improve our risk profile. We're also working on creating a simpler and more collaborative way to seamlessly serve customers and team members by aligning similar teams in areas like marketing, finance, and operations.

We've also been reducing discretionary spending, such as travel and facilities. Earlier this week, we announced the formation of a new Payments, Virtual Solutions and Innovation Group that will be led by Avid Modjtabai. This new group will bring teams from across the Company together to accelerate our focus on delivering the next generation of payments capabilities, advancing digital and online offerings, and investing in new customer experiences and products.

This new group includes our innovation, consumer credit card, deposit products, treasury management, and virtual channels teams. We continue to be active in providing our customers new products, services and technologies. For example, starting in the third quarter, customers can now send and receive real-time payments with any customer of a bank that participates in the clearXchange Network. And our wholesale customers can now send and receive same-day ACH. We're also making it easier for our customers to open accounts through mobile channels, including brokerage, business direct, and personal credit products.

Turning to our business segments starting on Page 25. Community Banking earned $3.2 billion in the third quarter, down 9% from a year ago and up 2% from the second quarter. The decline from a year ago was due to the lower gains on equity investments.

We've already discussed earlier on the call many of the business trends within Community Banking, so I'll just briefly highlight that our customers continued to actively use our payment and digital products with debit card transaction volume up 8% from a year ago, and credit card purchase dollar volume also up 8%. Mobile active users grew to 18.8 million.

Wholesale Banking earned $2 billion in the third quarter, up 6% from a year ago and down 1% from the second quarter. Revenue was $7.1 billion, down 2% from the second quarter due to the gain last quarter on the sale of our Health Benefit Services business. Revenue benefited from record net interest income, up 4% from second quarter and 12% from a year ago.

Loan growth was driven by acquisitions and broad-based organic growth, with average loans up $48.7 billion, or 12% from a year ago, the eighth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. During the third quarter, we closed the portion of our acquisition of GE Capital's Commercial Distribution Finance business and earlier this month, we completed the final phase of that acquisition.

Wealth and Investment Management earned a record $677 million in the third quarter, up 12% from a year ago and up 16% from the second quarter. WIM generated a pre-tax margin of 27% in the third quarter and had positive operating leverage on both a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis. Positive operating leverage was driven by solid revenue growth while continuing to invest more in the business.

WIM's average deposits were up 10% from a year ago and average loans increased 12%, the 13th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth. Client assets across WIM reached record highs this quarter, driven both by market gains and continued positive net flows.

Turning to Page 28. Credit results improved from second quarter, with only 33 basis points of annualized net charge-offs. Net charge-offs declined $119 million, or 13% from second quarter from lower Oil & Gas, credit card, and consumer real estate losses, and continued commercial real estate recoveries.

Non-performing assets decreased $1.1 billion from second quarter, with improvement across our consumer and commercial portfolios and lower foreclosed assets. Non-performing assets were only 1.25% of total loans, the lowest level since the merger with Wachovia in 2008. And for the first time this year, we did not have a reserve build.

Slide 29 provides details on our Oil & Gas portfolio. Outstandings declined to $16 billion, down 6% from second quarter, and there were no defensive draws again this quarter. Our total Oil & Gas loan exposure, which includes unfunded commitments in loans outstanding, was down 2% from the second quarter and down 11% from a year ago.

We had $168 million of net charge-offs in the Oil & Gas portfolio in the third quarter, down $95 million, or 36% from the second quarter, driven by improvements in industry conditions. Non-accrual loans were $2.5 billion, down slightly from the second quarter and criticized loans declined $1.1 billion, or 13%. While another decline in commodity prices would have a negative impact on the performance of our Oil & Gas portfolio, given the current environment, we believe losses peaked in the second quarter.

Turning to Page 30, our capital levels remained strong with our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio fully phased in at 10.7% in the third quarter. Our net payout ratio was 61% as we returned $3.2 billion to shareholders through Common Stock dividends and net share repurchases.

Regarding the new Fed proposal for the stress capital buffer, while the initial information provided by the Fed was limited, we have performed our internal analysis and the potential impact appears manageable and the overall changes to the CCAR framework are generally aligned with our expectations.

I also want to provide an update on where we stand related to TLAC. As I mentioned earlier, we issued $9.2 billion of debt in the quarter that we anticipate will be TLAC eligible; however, this was partially offset by $2.1 billion of long-term debt rolling into the less than one year maturity bucket.

In summary, our results in the third quarter demonstrated strength and momentum in a number of businesses; however, the impact on future performance from the sales practices-related events late in the quarter is still unknown. We're working closely with our customers, our regulators, and our team members to move forward and make things right.

TIM SLOAN: Thanks, John. Before we end our prepared remarks, I wanted to address a few of the most common questions that we've been getting from all of you. The first is whether Wells Fargo's culture is broken. Our goal of building life-long relationships with our customers and appropriately offering them additional products is still the foundation of our business model.

But there was clearly something wrong and we will make the necessary changes to fix it. The values we have always embraced: people as a competitive advantage, doing what is right for our customers, diversity and inclusion, ethics, and leadership will continue to guide our Company through this challenging period.

Second, we have received questions about the sales practice activities, who was involved, and what the timeline of events was. We have acknowledged that we've made mistakes. However, our Board is conducting an independent investigation into our retail banking sales practices and related matters and we're not in a position to discuss those topics today.

Finally, we know there's uncertainty due to the events that have occurred over the last month, including this week. Let me outline what you should expect from us before we have our next earning call 90 days from now. First, in our Retail Banking business, we'll continue our outreach efforts to our customers and focus on making things right.

Second, we will continue to work with the Board on their investigation as well as all of the other inquiries we have received, including meeting the required deliverables under the consent orders. And third, as you've heard on the call today, we're committed to being transparent regarding business trends and you should expect updates on these activities during the quarter.

We're also planning on an off-cycle Investor Day for next year where we will update you on our business strategies. And finally, I know there is a lot we need to get right and make no mistake, I get it, and our team is on it.

JIM ROWE: Before we open up the line for questions, for today, to be as fair as possible, we're asking that you limit your questions to one question and one follow-up so we can get to as many questions as possible. Thank you. And with that, Regina, we're ready for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

TIM SLOAN: Hi, Matt.

OPERATOR: Matt, you may be on mute.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Sorry, can you hear me?

TIM SLOAN: We can hear you now, Matt. Thanks.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, apologies. I thought I saw a blurb out there that you're hiring 2,000 employees for various compliance controls areas and I just want to see if that is true. And then related to that, as you think about the expense impact of all of this, any estimates on what that might be?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, the blurb really reflected the fact that we're moving approximately 2,000 of our team members that are in risk and control positions within our business lines to our corporate risk functions. It's not necessarily a net increase in the number of team members.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, so I guess a broader question is, there's going to be some cost impact of the sales practice issue, probably some revenue impact as well. Do you have any estimates on what that might be, the revenue impact is probably a little bit trickier but I would think there may be some way to frame some early thoughts on the cost side of things?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it's tough to be specific because we will definitely be adding people in control positions as we build out the go forward plan and have it agreed to by our regulators so that's definitely a cost headwind. And I guess I would calibrate the relevant range in the tens of millions of dollars for that, specifically as it relates to this.

And I think you're right, on the revenue side, some of the early trends that we're seeing, just in terms of account openings, et cetera, don't really have a revenue impact. They may ultimately, with respect to how incremental deposits are redeployed or transactional activity in cards, things like that, but they don't have an immediate revenue impact on this quarter and next quarter.

The bigger picture, of course, in -- that some people have asked is what will the business model feel like in community banking with a more service-oriented culture rather than a more sales oriented culture? And you'll be hearing more about that as it's fully developed. It's our intention to be successful in providing all of our customers with what they need in terms of financial products through a service-oriented model. So it will take some time to develop and to describe for people and it will work its way in over the course of the coming quarters but it's a question that people have asked and it's one that we will provide a lot of transparency around so that people can understand the impact of that change as it's being made.

MATT O'CONNOR: So these costs and any revenue give up, do you feel like it's going to be absorbable in your current earnings power? Or I think the fear out in the market is not just the headline risk, which will go away at some point, but I think the fear is this $4 plus of earnings power, is that meaningfully at risk when you factor in some of the costs and revenue reduction and I don't know if you can comment on that? Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you. It's tough to say with specificity. We have a very diversified revenue model, as you know. There's so much coming from wholesale. There's so much coming from WIM. This will be a headwind in Community Banking and it's one that we will intend to absorb but that's why we are upping our transparency so that people can develop their own sense and we can share facts as they're happening.

MATT O'CONNOR: Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thanks, Matt.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Erika.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Maybe I can ask Matt's last question another way. You set out return goals during Investor Day of 1.1% to 1.4% ROA, and I guess really what the question is, is given the uncertainty of the community bank impact on revenue and expenses going forward, are there other levers within Wells Fargo in that you can deliver that 1.1% to 1.4% ROA within the next two years? And can you grow earnings without any help from macro next year despite this uncertainty?

TIM SLOAN: Hey, Erika. It's a very fair question and let me take the macro orientation of that first. One, it's always a function of what the economic environment is and what the interest rate environment is, but I think, as you've seen from our third quarter results, that the other businesses that drive this Company performed quite well in the quarter. And we're excited about their growth but as John indicated, it's a little bit too new to rate in terms of what the impact -- the longer-term impact of the sales practices issues are going to be within Community Banking.

But boy, I'm very optimistic about the leadership of Mary Mack, very optimistic about our ability to work through those but it's going to take awhile. And as we said, it could get a little bit worse before it gets better but I'll tell you, the team in Community Banking is up to it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think there's -- what we announced at the last Investor Day in terms of targets are still reasonable guide posts. I said just a little bit earlier, I think we'll still be at the higher end on expenses and of course, now in addition to what we just talked about with Matt, about compliance costs. We're going to have incremental operating losses as a result of this, this litigation, et cetera, that's got to work its way through and that will definitely be around for a little while.

As Tim mentioned, we're going to have an off-cycle Investor Day next May and between now and then, we'll be talking a lot and if we think that those aren't reasonable guide posts anymore, we'll tell people.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: And my second -- my follow-up question is part of your stock's appeal has always been the dividend and overall capital return. And I'm wondering if some of the overhang from these issues from litigation, from a potential DOJ investigation impact how you think about capital return going forward?

TIM SLOAN: Overall, it doesn't. We've provided similar metrics in terms of the range of capital pay out and we were well within those this quarter and our expectation is to continue to stay in those ranges.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We certainly account for a broad range of stress outcomes in the capital planning process, as it relates to operational risk and operational losses. That's always been true and it's true for other filers as well so certainly, it would be our intention to take a similar path going forward with the approach to distributions that we've had.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Could you give us a sense as to why you chose Mary Mack to run the Retail Bank and give us a sense as to what she's bringing from the Wealth Management platform from anything she's done at Wachovia? And what your expectations are for how she's going to deliver?

TIM SLOAN: All good questions. First, Mary was the best person for the job. I could not be more excited about what she's been able to accomplish in this environment thus far. She brings experience, not only within the Brokerage business but also in the Retail Banking business, and I -- and my expectations are very high and I hope she's listening because they're high and I'm pretty certain that she's going to be able to exceed the expectation but she was the best person for the job.

BETSY GRASECK: But is that -- I mean, can you just give us a sense why because we're looking for a culture shift or culture enhancement change in the business model. And that's a big ask, so I'm just wondering if -- what you saw in her at -- while she was running Wealth Management and --

TIM SLOAN: Yes, Betsy, I saw an executive with decades of experience in the financial services industry and decades of experience at Wachovia and Wells Fargo, who has been through a variety of challenges in her career, and who is an incredibly effective leader and somebody who I believe, and our entire senior leadership team and the Board believed, that who can effectuate the change that's needed on a Retail Banking platform.

BETSY GRASECK: And is there opportunities to enhance the efficiency of that platform over time? I mean, not in the next several quarters as you worked with the outreach with your clients but over time, given the digital investment spend that you've been making? And I think given the fact that you've been running them as separate geographies, but maybe I'm wrong there. Maybe you've already centralized that.

TIM SLOAN: Well, the short answer is yes and we talked about that a fair amount at Investor Day. We talked about it as part of an omni-channel experience. Our customers continue to use our branches as frequently today as they have a month ago, a year ago, and so on, but having said that, there's incredible opportunities to continue to improve our product set, how we offer convenience to our customers, how our products and our people interact with each other.

And candidly, that's one of the reasons why we announced on Monday the creation of the Payments Virtual Channel and Innovation Group and if you want to ask why we picked Avid for that because she was the best person for the job and that change, I think I want to just reinforce, is very important. Because what we've done is we brought together all of the Payments businesses, how so many of our customers, both retail and commercial, interact with us every day. We brought them all together and we think that's going to create a fair amount of innovation but also efficiency over time.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, John.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Hi. Just want to go to the wholesale impact. I know you commented on the select states and municipalities that had made some decisions to pull back business. Could you just clarify, again, which states and municipalities have indicated? I believe California; we've also seen Chicago and I believe Seattle. And then how we should think about that impact? Can you help us quantify the amount of revenue that you generally generate from that type of business?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, John. I'll start and maybe John will want to jump in. I don't have a list of all of the states and municipalities that have either indicated they want to put us on a temporary pause or those that have reaffirmed their business with us. In our Investor Day materials, we broke out the revenue associated with our Government and Institutional Banking business. One of the benefits that we have at Wells Fargo is we have this diversified set of businesses and so frequently, in our list of 90 different businesses, not every one of them is necessarily material to the -- in any one quarter to the impact of the Company.

Having said that, our goal is to earn all of that business back. I mean those states and municipalities had chosen to do business with Wells Fargo for a reason. We have great people, we have great products. Are we disappointed but -- that they decided to put us on suspension or pause? We are but given the environment, it's not surprising and we respect their decisions. But we're going to work hard to make things right within the Company to earn that business back over time.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, all right. Thanks and then separately, back on to the cost side. The -- I know you flagged the legal costs for the quarter and then you also alluded to higher, more focused marketing effort. Wanted to see if you have any way to help us quantify those two items at least for the near term?

And then separately, the offsets that could come on the expense side to those types of items, I believe you alluded to branch consolidation potential later on in your slide deck as well as the travel that you flagged on your prepared comments. So wanted to see how we could think about the timing of that type of relief from those items.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, so this is John. There's a lot of puts and takes there, which is why we usually revert back to the efficiency ratio of target because while we're definitely going to have elevated compliance-related costs and operational loss-related costs, we've got a lot of initiatives underway, some of which you alluded to.

Some are immediate and some are over the forecast horizon of a couple years and it's designed to keep us in or below the high end of 55% to 59%. So my guidance at this point is that we're going to be at the high end of that range, accounting for all of those things that we're showing as levers in order to offset the elevated expense.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. And no quantification of the litigation -- legal costs this quarter; correct?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's difficult to do. It's very early for the matters that we filed in our 8-K and that you're reading about in the newspaper and as those things mature over time, then they will begin to have an impact but they don't have a dollar impact yet.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, John.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Tim, I know it's early here, but maybe you could talk about what factors are you going to be balancing when you redesign the sales incentive scorecard. How are you going to make sure you don't overshoot and cut off legitimate needs-based selling and relationship building while also making sure you don't encourage the wrong behavior?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it's a good question, John. I think that the focus is going to be first on, and this is a little bit high level, but on thinking about what are the drivers of developing those life-long relationships with our customers. It's about service, it's about convenience, so think about our bankers being incented to provide good service.

And so we'll be measuring that on an independent basis to think about our bankers being focused on helping our customers do more business but being measured on product usage and activity as opposed to individual product sales. And also about an overall growth in assets and balances and also think about it being much more driven to a team approach as opposed to just on an individual basis.

We think that, that is going to be successful. Now, Mary and team are working on the specifics of that right now and when we complete the analysis and they recommend the program, that's one of the other areas that we'll provide some transparency about.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and then just a follow-up for John. On the net interest margin and net interest income, when we try to assess the impact of what a potential rate hike would do, one rate hike, it's hard to discern what happened after the December hike last time because the first quarter, you had a few moving parts. What's your best guess of what kind of help you could get to your NIM from one rate hike and then what's the ongoing impact to NIM on the other side from TLAC issuance, in terms of drag?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So I would -- the net number that I would look to for ease of modeling, if we got one 25 basis point move would be something on the order of $150 million per quarter in the first year. Just -- there's a lot going into that in terms of asset liability mix, loan growth, deposit growth, TLAC issuance, et cetera, but that's a reasonable place holder that accounts for the net.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

TIM SLOAN: Thanks John.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR & Company.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Paul.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Good morning, guys. Thank you very much. Relative to some of the shake up you guys had in executive leadership, has there been any thought to bring somebody from the outside, because a lot of you guys have been with the bank for multiple, multiple years and to bring somebody from the outside to give a fresh look of the culture?

TIM SLOAN: Well, it's a fair question and it's one we've been getting asked. I think the Board, by the changes that we've made over the last week and few weeks, is comfortable with and very supportive of the management team. I think over the last few years, really, since the financial crisis, we had a huge opportunity in -- eight years ago to reset the entire team and we selected the best folks that were available for all of the roles.

Since then, and one of the great things about the Company has been how we've been able to attract many senior leaders from outside the Company. Not only in our business lines but also in many of our support functions including corporate risk, so that's already really happened, from my perspective.

PAUL MILLER: Hello?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, you there? Go ahead.

PAUL MILLER: I'm sorry. Yes, and then on the independent audit, is there any timeline for that? And did you disclose who is doing the audit?

TIM SLOAN: Well, it's an investigation that's being spearheaded by Shearman & Sterling, which is working on behalf of the Board. It's independent and we don't have a date by which is going to be finished. Hopefully, it will be finished as soon as practical but I think independence and thoroughness is much more important than getting something done in a short period of time.

PAUL MILLER: Guys, thank you very much for taking my questions.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you, Paul.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi. Of the 115,000 accounts that were open without authorization and charged a fee, how many customers did those 115,000 accounts reflect? And what's been your retention rate of those customers?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think the customer count is somewhat lower than the incidents or the product count, at least. With respect to the $1.5 million deposit accounts, which is the bigger number but the ones that couldn't be [rolled] out, that related to 1.1 million customers, so it was a 3-to-2 ratio there. So I'd say that it's somewhat south of 100,000 customers for the 115,000 impacted accounts.

MIKE MAYO: And the retention ratio --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't have the retention ratio at hand. It's not something that's independently being measured, at least, not at this level.

MIKE MAYO: All right. I guess a follow-up. This is a long wind-up here, but it's a little frustrating not getting that retention information. I think you'd want to know the customers that were impacted the most, what's been your retention rate and I guess we can't really ask about the internal investigation, there's no time frame. We can't ask who knew what and when. We can't ask why it took so long to stop the problems. This is the first time we've had to ask a question on the call.

We don't have Steve Sanger on this call and so a long wind-up, like I said. Maybe a little bit more on the potential branch closings. Slide, I guess, 24. You talk about it could allow you to review the branch footprint for consolidation opportunities. You have 6,000 branches and you're having success with digital delivery.

And it's exciting that Avid is promoted into this new position. I'm sure you'll look at that but can you give us something concrete as relates to all of this? Maybe when you look at the new chapter, what the potential might be for efficiency improvements, especially if you are telling us efficiency should be elevated for some time?

TIM SLOAN: Mike, listen, I appreciate your question and as one of the many stakeholders at Wells Fargo, I'm sorry that we've disappointed you but we just spent 30 minutes talking about what's going on at the Company and we've provided a lot of information. We provided new slides that provide a tremendous amount of detail on some of the retail sales practices issue and we've deliberately and diligently walked through the performance of all of our businesses. And you know what? If that doesn't satisfy you, I'm sorry.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Well, maybe at the next years Investor Day, do you think we'll hear more about how you can configure your branches and the next stage of that?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, absolutely. We talked about that at last Investor Day and that's one of the reasons why we want to accelerate the timing of our Investor Day because we want to provide increased transparency, which we've done today, and we want to provide more continuous updates as to how we're operating the Company.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Well, I look forward to the incremental updates that you give. Thanks.

TIM SLOAN: Likewise.

OPERATOR: The next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies & Company.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks a lot. I was wondering if we could just talk about the environment a little bit. Loan growth was okay, but certainly, we've seen this air pocket on the commercial side a little bit from the industry perspective. And I'm wondering if you could just talk about what you guys were seeing in terms of commercial demand, especially?

And if you were seeing just noted changes in terms of customer activity and whether you think that's fleeting or whether you guys are a taking different view of the extension or credit at all?

TIM SLOAN: I think overall in the wholesale business, as you said, every quarter is -- can be a little bit different in terms of loan growth. We didn't see any trends in any of our wholesale businesses that would cause us concern that commercial real estate loans are going one way or asset-based loans are going another.

One of the reasons why our loan growth in the third quarter was in commercial wasn't as strong as in prior quarters is because our energy book declined by -- I can't recall the exact figure, $1.5 billion to $2 billion. We're still very active in the energy industry but it makes sense that there's a bit of a decline there. We had a few larger underwritings that either paid off or were transformed into long-term debt or equity for our customers but nothing alarming from our perspective.

KEN USDIN: All right and then as a follow-up, John, I noticed that the securities book was $390 billion at the end of the quarter. It looks like you're moving some of that liquidity and maybe also replacement of some of that loan growth. Can you just talk about the reinvestment philosophy? What kind of stuff you're investing in? And are you able to find a good ROA, ROE on moving the book into securities at this time, given where rates are?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. Well the first call on that liquidity would be the loans that we just talked about to the extent there was incremental loan demand. We've -- versus how we've deployed liquidity in the past, we obviously have more of a bias towards things that qualify for HQLA, just because of the environment that we're living in for liquidity. So you've seen a lot of agency mortgage-backed securities. You've seen some treasuries; we've actually got a program of late to be a little bit more active in Ginnie Mae Securities because of their liquidity properties.

We also have a portfolio of -- a smaller portfolio on the securities side of somewhat more credit sensitive so high-grade corporates, or CMBS, things like that, that we replenish every quarter as well. The returns are okay. We have this lower-for-longer bias that makes us comfortable deploying capital in that way and liquidity in that way and the capital to withstand what happens if we're wrong about rates and we end up in a higher rate environment.

But -- and it's consistent with the approach we've taken over the last couple of quarters. We paused in the first quarter while there was a real drop in both market volatility that gave rise to risk free rates going as low as they have, but now in the second quarter and third quarter, we've been back to converting cash into duration basically.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, John.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That helpful?

KEN USDIN: Yes.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous Research.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Brian.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Good morning. I wonder if you could talk a little bit about overdraft charges. A few articles out there have maybe asserted some of the opt-in processes were over-zealous, let's call it, at the retail network so is that something you've looked at as part of your review? And then we don't get a ton of history from the Reg filings but it is broken out. Now it seems like your overdraft was running about 12%, plus 12% year over year in terms of growth which is a good bit stronger than the industry, so even separate from any of the sales practice stuff, maybe just what was driving that overdraft fee growth?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, sure Brian. We saw some of the same reports that you did and candidly, those were a little bit of a surprise. Having said that, like all facets of our Retail Banking business, we're going to review those and to the extent there are any issues, we'll deal with them but we're not aware today that they were a driver of overdraft income.

BRIAN FORAN: Great, and then maybe on some of these new account production metrics, it's very helpful. I appreciate the disclosure. I'm assuming the average life of checking accounts and credit cards is pretty long, so is there like a rule of thumb translation you can give us? If the run rate of new accounts is down 25% for six months, let's say, that a 1 percentage point headwind to balance growth, 2 percentage points? How should we think about that in terms of thinking about balance growth, all else equal over the next two years?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I would separate that into credit cards, one, and deposit accounts, second. I think credit cards, it's a little bit tricky just because over the last few years we've seen such growth in our credit card business in terms of penetration and our usage numbers have been good.

But you could imagine a point where there -- if credit card growth is down a little bit that in a year or so from now, we could see some decline. But of course, that assumes that we don't make any other changes in our credit card products and our offerings and how we interact with customers and the like. So don't have a great rule of thumb there.

And again as it relates to the deposit accounts and John, jump in here if you feel differently, we're so new into the impact and what we tried to do in the expanded disclosure is show you the decline in a monthly basis but also give you a sense of what the impact was on the total base. I think that's how I would think about it. And I appreciate that you appreciated our increased disclosure.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: The only thing I would add is not all deposit accounts are equal in terms of their contribution to deposit balances. Here we have deposits growing by $6 billion when we have new accounts not opening as quickly.

TIM SLOAN: But Brian, that's another reason why we want to continue to provide enhanced disclosure because we want to make sure that you're comfortable with how any of the headwinds we're facing right now are affecting the business.

OPERATOR: The next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Eric.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Hi, thanks for taking my call. I guess my question gets back to, sadly, to the account issue. But can you describe if there's been any review of interactions and communications about these kinds of issues with the Board? And just to get to my follow-up, what I'm really wondering is if this raises the risk of qualitative review, as it relates to CCAR or any other kind of regulatory action?

TIM SLOAN: So let me take the first part of that question. As I mentioned, the Board has engaged Shearman & Sterling to do an investigation of retail sales, product issues and other matters and we want to be very respectful of their process. And we want that process to be taken seriously and to be viewed independently, so I don't want to comment on the specifics of how they are going to go about their review but we look forward to --

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Sorry to interrupt but I guess I'm getting to the issue of, it seemed like at least from the press reports, this issue went on for several years before management made the Board aware and I'm just wondering if that issue has been addressed?

TIM SLOAN: Well, here's how I would answer that. And that is, there's going to be an independent review and I think that it would be appropriate to wait for the independent review as opposed to jumping to conclusion about what media might think. I don't mean to be disrespectful to the media but I don't know if they have all of the facts and we'll -- the review will look at all of the facts and will make some recommendations, I'm sure.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks.

TIM SLOAN: Hi Marty.

MARTY MOSBY: Hi. You created a new role on the Board, a Vice Chair, and you put Elizabeth Duke in that role and appointed her there. She has an extensive amount of industry and regulatory experience. You created that role for a purpose. Can you frame that a little bit for us and let us understand better what you -- how you expect to leverage her in that role?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. So Marty, I want to be very respectful of the fact that neither John nor I created that role. The Board did. Having said that, we couldn't -- first, we have a terrific Board. It's diverse, it's diverse in terms of the types of industries that they've been involved in, their experience. And we just couldn't be more pleased with the quality of that Board. In particular, having both Steve Sanger and Betsy being -- Betsy Duke being willing to step up into these roles is I think absolutely the right decision that the Board should be making and in this circumstances.

Separating the CEO and Chairman role is something we've done in the past but again, in particular, to Betsy to have somebody like that with not only industry experience but also regulatory experience in this environment to provide assistance for Steve is exactly what's needed.

MARTY MOSBY: And then not to Monday morning quarterback or rehash what you've done in the past, but Tim, I really wanted to ask you, has -- what, in this experience, has changed the way you think about the role of CEO, as you now assume it, and Wells Fargo as a Company or a culture? And what is the key takeaway? Whenever you go through these extreme crises, there's always something that you've learned that will make the Company better as you move forward. What have you learned that you're going to now take to the -- your new role and be able to push forward?

TIM SLOAN: Marty, that's a great question and by the way, don't apologize for being a Monday morning quarterback, because candidly, we deserve that and we are used to it over the last few weeks. I also want to preface my remarks by saying I've been in this role for less than 48 hours and I want you to have high expectations for me but actually, I want to make sure that those are a bit tempered.

When I think about the retail sales practices issue we've had at the Company, I wish the business had escalated the issue sooner. I wish when the business escalated the issue that while the senior management team did a lot in response, I wish we could have done more. And I highlight that because I think that one of the lessons that I've learned -- one of the lessons the entire Company has learned and one of the reasons that we're organized the way we are today and we're making many of the changes that we've talked about are that we've got to escalate issues wherever they occur within the Company sooner. We have to deal with them sooner and we've to make sure that the extent that they have any impact on our customers that we deal with that impact as quickly as we can so it's about escalation and it's about speed and dealing with challenges, but -- and also dealing with opportunities as they come, Marty.

MARTY MOSBY: Do you feel that in that vein, being a high performer and being looked at as a high-quality bank for so long created some blinders, that maybe those blinders have now been taken off in your -- like you're saying, reacting and moving quicker at this point?

TIM SLOAN: I don't know. It's a fair question. I don't know if they created blinders but again, the fact of the matter is we should have escalated these issues sooner and we should have dealt with them more quickly than we did. So to the extent that some of our prior success impacted that, so be it. I can assure you that we're -- we've talked about, what you just described a lot, and we're going to make sure that, that doesn't create a blinder now or in the future.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Chris Kotowski with Oppenheimer.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Chris.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. I never thought I'd ask you about this page of your press release again, but I'm looking at Page 31 at the accretable yield which usually wiggles and wobbles by $100 million or $200 million a quarter and all of a sudden, the expected cash flows are down by almost $5 billion. So can you say what happened there and does that -- is that a headwind to net interest income going forward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I'm glad you asked. I wasn't sure whether anybody was going to get there but the -- so the accretable yield balance was down $4 billion in the quarter. It stands at about, I think, $11.2 billion right now. So what's happened here is that prepayments have sped up.

We've reached a point where a lot of these borrowers have gotten themselves in the money for a refi just because of the path at HBI, and we're experiencing and modeling faster cash flows as a result of that. And so frankly, in the near term, I think we'll see an increase to interest income as more of that comes through but what it means is those loans won't be outstanding for as long as we might have previously predicted because they will be [refined].

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: So that would be elevated accretion in the net interest income then the next four -- couple quarters, whatever, as you experience that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Correct. Correct.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, and then a headwind in future quarters after that. Okay, and the other thing I was wondering is how should we think about the impact of the settlement on op risk RWAs? Obviously, the financial impact is minor but the impact on your Company has been big in terms of management and press and reputation and so on. So how quickly does it all get factored in and any light you can shed on whatever the algorithm is?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it's tough to say because the chapter hasn't -- middle chapters haven't been written of what the op risk outcome is. We know what the settlement was. We've got a variety of legal matters that we have to attend to, all of which will factor into a future view of what the total op risk experience is from it, so it -- at the margin would be increasing. I think I mentioned earlier, in CCAR, our own stress analysis, we concoct and imagine outsized op risk outcomes to demonstrate that we've got the capital earnings power to overcome them.

And the magnitude of what we're talking about here frankly is -- while it's significant, is modest in comparison to what you can imagine in stress, both in our own scenario as well as in the CCAR. And, of course, what it means from the regulators' perspective is they think about our op risk capacity in the future is up to them. But it will have an increase at the margin. It doesn't have a material increase in the moment because the numbers, as you say, have not been that big on the scale of Wells Fargo's balance sheet and earnings power so far. But it's a headwind in ops risk.

We've been fortunate to have had modest op risk outcomes relative to the GSIB peer group over the CCAR era and this feels different, because of the severity of the reputational [arm] that's been created.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.

TIM SLOAN: Hi, Brian.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Hi. Quick question just on -- easy one first, on the long term debt, I know you said it went up based on the TLAC issuance but didn't you also have debt that you put on related to the GE deals for pre-funding those deals that was puttable? Is that still on the balance sheet or did you put that back this quarter as well?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's still on the balance sleet so it is puttable and it's FHLB-type of financing so it shows up as longer-term debt but it's -- you can see that on Page 15, I think of today's deck, so it's still in place. Now, of course, we're just using it as part of the general liability structure overall and we'll use it as long as we think that it is a good component of the stack.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Okay. Thanks, and then on the slide where you're monitoring the customer activity in retail banking, you note consumer checking account opens were down 25% year on year, credit card applications down 20% year on year. But if you start to annualize those numbers, they start to get very large, if you think about the credit card applications.

That would be down on a full-year basis down 12% year on year relative to the total outstanding, so I mean, is there a way to quantify what that monthly impact was as it relates to revenue? I'm sure like not all applications actually get opened, but --?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, so but the waterfall there is applications may or may not become approvals and approvals may or may not become activated cards and activated cards have to become utilized and utilized cards become balances and balances accrue interest. So there's a lot of steps that have to be gone through before applications have an impact on either assets or revenue.

One of the reasons for showing this is to help people understand what the immediate impact is and then to roll it forward, so we can see whether annualizing that September number is really the right way to approach it. September, obviously, was the first month -- it's the month where we pulled back on marketing. It's the month when our team members were probably the most uncertain in terms of what the go-forward model is going to be as we pivot towards service. It's the month when our customers and prospects are first reflecting their real dissatisfaction with Wells Fargo; all those things are together, and those are going to change in different ways, as we roll it forward.

So it's the installed base that drives the P&L results and that is where it is. And Tim mentioned we're going to roll this forward probably during the quarter so people can see whether October looks like September, and November looks like October and then we can start to build a projectable impact on the trend. Hopefully, that's helpful.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Yes, it is. Thanks.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Vivek Juneja with JPMorgan.

VIVEK JUNEJA, ANALYST, JPMORGAN: Hi.

TIM SLOAN: How are you this morning?

VIVEK JUNEJA: Good, Tim. Congratulations even though we would have all hoped to hear it under better circumstances.

TIM SLOAN: Me, too.

VIVEK JUNEJA: A question for both of you. You took a charge in the second quarter for CFPB several months which was announced September 8. Why no disclosure on the financial filings and are you planning to change anything as you think about that aspect as you look forward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it's a tricky one because we certainly account for these items when they become known or probable and estimable under GAAP. But separately, we're also -- these are also part of confidential supervisory information that -- where there's limitation on how much you can talk about while you're in the middle of a negotiation with a regulator. Now they can talk about whatever they choose to and they do sometimes, and other times, they wait until it ends.

So we think about the circumstances in the moment. We obviously would love to disclose and help people understand what's going on. We're certainly taking the charges when we need to take the charge but we're not alone in that discussion and usually, the circumstances are governed by, in the case of a regulator, the regulator. So that's how I think about that.

VIVEK JUNEJA: So not even without giving us the amount, you couldn't even disclose a set of facts [of all of those] existence of those discussions?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the way that I would think about it is that this stemmed from the lawsuit that the City of LA filed a year before that and so that there was -- there were issues that we were dealing with but as John said, we've got to be very careful and respectful of what we disclose in terms of conversations that we have with our regulators. And that's really important and so the short answer is we followed appropriate policies, procedures, rules and disclosure requirements.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Okay. Separate question linked to all of the regulatory scrutiny that's going on, Tim. As a G-SIFI bank, scrutiny, obviously with all of these happening, is going to increase for you. Does that have any bearing on how you think about the asset size as one metric? You're almost $1.95 trillion, the third largest bank. [Citi reported a gap] gets companies to widen [the geography] growing even faster. Is that something that factors into how big is too big? Or what does it mean longer term?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it's a fair question, I think -- and John jump in but we're focused less on size because size is ultimately determined by our customers. It's not necessarily determined by us. We want to arm our team members with the right incentives and have them work together and provide good advice and service to our customers and make sure that we've got great products out there. That's what's going to drive our size. Having said that, we need to make sure that as we think about our return, so putting the lens that you might use, which we do all of the time, are we getting and providing the appropriate returns for our investors based upon our size? That's how we think about it.

Having said that we've looked at across the Company and you've seen us exit some businesses that we believed would not provide us with as strong as a return as they might provide another owner. We sold our crop business. We sold our HSA business and so on and because we appreciate in this environment and given the amount of liquidity and capital that we have that we've got to be very mindful in terms of how we deploy our assets.

VIVEK JUNEJA: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Couple of questions, Tim. The first one, much has been made of the investigation that the Board is independently conducting, the Shearman & Sterling investigation. I have not heard everything that's been said about that, whether the results of that will be made publicly known when it's over.

TIM SLOAN: Good question. I do not know the answer to that. The Board will decide that.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, so there's no regulatory imperative along with that? I'm assuming the regulators will have a look at that but I'm just wondering if there's a transparency issue here that needs to be overcome.

TIM SLOAN: Well, I wouldn't jump to a conclusion about whether there's a transparency issue or not. As you can see, we're trying to be more transparent in terms of the operations of the Company than we've ever been but Betsy, I want to be -- or excuse me, Nancy, I want to be very respectful to the Board because that's the Board's decision.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. My second question would be this. Obviously, there are going to some near term issues here, not only retaining customers but in attracting new ones and I'm wondering if there is any thought being given to deposit pricing or fees, et cetera, as one of the levers to attract these clients?

TIM SLOAN: Nancy, all good ideas in this Company are on the table. We've got an impressive management team. Whenever a company, and it's certainly the case for us, is faced with these kinds of challenges, it's absolutely appropriate to step back and think about all aspects of how we provide product and service and convenience to our customers and we've certainly -- are thinking about price.

Having said that, when you think about the driver of our Company -- one of the drivers for our Company for decades and it's building that life-long relationship that's not based on price, so could we make some changes in our pricing of certain products, deposit or otherwise? Sure, we could but I would not expect us to lead with price.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. If I could just ask as an add-on to that. Obviously, your employees have really been put through the wringer through this whole process. Is there any thought about additional compensation or bonuses this year or something just as a way of saying, we're sorry?

TIM SLOAN: I think put -- saying we put our team members through the wringer is an understatement.

NANCY BUSH: (laughter)

TIM SLOAN: I really do. I really do. Especially our team members in -- on our Retail Banking platform but it's throughout the Company. We want to make sure that we retain the best people that we can and we think we offer a very competitive set of compensation and benefits. We talked a little bit about that on one of the slides but we appreciate that we've got to re-recruit our team in this kind of environment and all ideas are on the table.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker with Piper Jaffray.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thank you. I just wanted to follow up on --

TIM SLOAN: Hi Kevin.

KEVIN BARKER: Hey, how are you doing? Thanks for taking my questions. I just wanted to follow-up in regards to your comments around the expenses and the efficiency ratio and you're saying it's going to be elevated. And you said it's going to be elevated or on the higher end of the 55% to 59% range into 2016. Are you now saying that, that range is no longer valid and longer term -- going into 2017, you might be above the efficiency ratio range? Or how should we think about that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You should think about it as an annual range. This quarter, we popped up above it but it's still a good annual range and if we start thinking that it's not, then we'll telegraph that to people. It's hard to be more specific. The operational or compliance related issues are one set of costs that can maybe be modeled in the near term.

But to the extent that we've got lumpy operational losses that drive it up, those are just harder to predict and they will happen when they happen. But we will -- if we think the band is no longer the right band, then we will tell you that.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. And then when we think about the spend on marketing and compliance, are you expecting that to be offset by the potential to have branch closures or reductions in your branch costs in order to keep the expenses under control due to other areas? Or how should we think about the puts and takes around the expense number?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I wouldn't tie the two together, and I certainly wouldn't be focused on branch closures. What we've talked about and again, I reflect back on how we described our branch platform at Investor Day, that we continue to update it all the time. We move branches around. We open new branches, we combine branches. We may close a few. I think this year, in fact, there's going to be a reduction unrelated to what we've talked about here.

But as John described, we've got to look at our expenses and we have been looking at our expenses for some period of time to be able to keep the efficiency ratio within the range even though it's going to -- it's at the upper end of the range because we need to invest not only in compliance, we've got to invest in technology and bringing out new products and cyber defense and all of the above.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Another thing, Kevin, as it relates -- and because other people have asked today but with regard to that whatever might happen on the branch network side of things, that's -- that doesn't necessarily give you an immediate lift if you're thinking about today's elevated compliance cost or today's elevated marketing cost. If we're making moves on the physical distribution side of our business, that creates benefits in year two, year three, year four but it's not really an immediate offset. So as Tim said, I wouldn't think about those as offsetting levers.

KEVIN BARKER: Do you think you can stay within your target if rates were to remain flat from where they are right now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, the way that range was constructed was with our expectation for rates, which is practically flat, but for example, if we get a 25 basis point move in December, that wouldn't be unreasonable and that's essentially baked into being in that range. If we stay flat we're not that far off of that. If we had a big move up in rates, which I think is highly unlikely, then that would probably move us down in the range. I think we've said that before.

KEVIN BARKER: Thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of Brennan Hawken with UBS.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning.

BRENNAN HAWKEN , ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Sneaking in under the wire here. Just wanted to follow-up with -- on Marty's question. Tim, the response seemed largely tactical and so I guess as far as thinking about changes that your leadership might mean, does that mean that your view on the strategic approach versus prior leadership is largely unchanged?

And it's certainly true you haven't been in the seat very long but the idea that you would be taking over is certainly something that wasn't out of the blue so I'm sure you had some ideas coming in here?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I have lots of ideas but candidly, I'd be a lot more nervous if I were you if I came out with some new strategic plan for Wells Fargo in 48 hours. That would be pretty dangerous, from my perspective. But look, when I think about the Company that I joined 29 years ago, it's so different today. My guess is that Wells Fargo is going to be different five years from now, 10 years from now and 15 years from now. And you know what? I hope it is, because by changing and adapting to the environment we're in, that's one of the reasons why we've had a history of success, notwithstanding the last month or so, right?

The last month or so has been a real challenge, as we've talked about on the call today, and I'm sure we will continue to talk about for awhile. But we've made some important announcements this week; again, you might call them tactical, I think they are actually in the strategic bent, the creation of a new business line, the elevation of some new senior leaders in our Wholesale Banking and our Community Banking business as well as Consumer Lending. They are going to bring some new ideas. So I'd -- a fair point, it's probably a little bit more tactical than strategic, but over time, you'll see some updates and we'll talk about those over the next few months and I'm sure we will talk about some of that at Investor Day next year.

BRENNAN HAWKEN : Sure and actually, the spirit of my question was in response to Marty's question, I think you had talked about making adjustments to the escalation methods on the back, right? So that was more the reference of tactical rather than the management changes that you made.

TIM SLOAN: Right. I --

BRENNAN HAWKEN : Sorry, Tim. Go ahead?

TIM SLOAN: No, no. I appreciate it. Fair question.

BRENNAN HAWKEN : So a different direction here for the second question. One of your wirehouse competitors did come out and confirm the recent stories on their policies for dealing with the DOL rule. Have you finalized your policies and can you tell us any details about those?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, we're -- this is John. We're still in the process of refining the overall implementation approach to be compliant with the rules. I think we're still going to continue to approach every client relationship with an emphasis on every client having a customized plan that guides their investment activity.

We're going to emphasize advisory solutions and continue to offer traditional brokerage for certain clients that includes self-directed options, also, and we'll be sharing more details as we get closer to implementation. I think with each ensuing quarter between now and later in 2017, you should expect to hear a little bit more about the specifics of the implementation. But we haven't reached the same conclusion and same timeframe as the competitor that I think you're referring to.

BRENNAN HAWKEN : Thanks for the color.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you. I know its been a busy morning for everybody and our call has been a little bit longer than normal but I really want to thank all of you for your thoughtful questions. The discussion, I think, has been incredibly helpful for both John and me, and we look forward to continuing to provide additional disclosure to you as we move through the quarter. And we thank you for your interest in Wells Fargo.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you all for joining. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | csble : Small Business Lending | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | c17 : Corporate Funding | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | csmlbs : Small/Medium Businesses | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020161015ecae0018h
  


 HD
 Q2  2016 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,710 words
   PD
15 July 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin the conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss second quarter results, and answer your questions. Please remember that this call is being recorded.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our second quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today. Our diversified business model and continued focus on meeting our customer's financial needs drove our performance in the second quarter, our 15th consecutive quarter of generating earnings greater than $5 billion.

We produced strong performance during a period that has had included persistent low rates, market volatility and economic volatility. And we did it by focusing on the core building blocks of long-term shareholder value creation, that is, growing relationships, loans, investments and deposits. Our loan and investment and deposit balances are all at record levels, and we've maintained our strong risk discipline.

Let me highlight our results for the second quarter. We generated earnings of $5.6 billion and earnings per share of $1.01. We grew revenue compared with a year ago by 4%, with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income, and our pre-tax pre-provision profit grew 5%. We generated positive operating leverage, while we continued to make investments throughout our businesses.

Average loans grew over $80 billion or 9% from a year ago. Average deposits increased $51.4 billion or 4% from a year ago, and we grew the primary -- the number of primary consumer checking customers by 4.7%. Net charge-offs remained near historical lows at 39 basis points annualized, reflecting the benefit of our diversified loan portfolio and continued underwriting discipline.

We returned $3.2 billion to our shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases in the second quarter, the fourth consecutive quarter of returning more than $3 billion. We continued to increase stockholder's equity, which now exceeded $200 billion for the first time, and we are pleased to have received a non-objection to our 2016 Capital Plan from the Federal Reserve.

Incidentally, when the former Norwest, which where I came from, and Wells Fargo merged 18 years ago, our total assets at the time were slightly less than $200 billion. Now our stockholder's equity exceeds that, remarkable results over that period of time.

Turning to the economic environment, Brexit has added to global economic uncertainty, and could result in rates remaining lower for even longer than expected, putting pressure on reinvestment opportunities. However, compared to our large bank peers, it should have a much lower direct impact on our long-term business drivers because as you know, we are largely a US-centric Company, and many indicators point to continued relative strength in the US economy.

After a couple of lackluster quarters, we estimate real GDP grew at 2.5% rate in the second quarter, up from 1.1% in the first quarter. Most of the improvement came from consumers, where drivers were broad-based. Spending on big-ticket items was especially robust, and sentiment surveys show that consumer confidence remains strong.

Home sales continued to rise, with the second quarter on pace to set the strongest quarterly sales volume since 2007. Price and appreciation remained steady at the 5% to 6% rate nationally, and appreciation isn't just restricted to coastal states. Every state, and 90% of all metro areas have experienced an increase during the past year. And job gains remained solid, with 69 consecutive monthly increase increases, the longest on record, including the strong June report released just last week.

Before I conclude, I want to highlight the announcement we made earlier this week, Carrie Tolstedt, Head of Community Banking who has been with Wells Fargo for 27 years has decided to retire at year end. She and her team have built an extraordinary franchise, one that meets the needs of millions of customers nationwide, and has served investors very well for decades.

Mary Mack, who currently serves as President and Head of Wells Fargo Advisors will succeed Carrie effective July 31. Mary is a 32 year veteran of financial services industry, and has a diverse [breadth] of experiences, including retail banking which will serve her well as she takes the reins of this key business.

This transition highlights our commitment to stable, long-range succession planning, and our belief that our team members are our most valuable resource. I will now turn the call over to John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer, who will provide more details on our quarterly results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2, then John and I will answer your questions.

Our results in the second quarter were straightforward, and demonstrated momentum across a variety of key business drivers. Compared with the first quarter, we had strong loan and deposit growth. We increased net interest income by growing earning assets. Many of our customer-facing businesses generated strong fee growth.

Our efficiency ratio improved. Credit quality remains solid, and our capital position remains strong, while we returned more capital to shareholders through common stock dividends and share repurchase. Our net payout ratio was 62% in the second quarter.

On page 3, you can see the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted, including increases in revenue, pre-tax pre-provision profit, loans and deposits. While our earnings were down $161 million from the year ago, our results in the second quarter last year included a $350 million reserve release, while this quarter we had $150 million reserve build, primarily due to loan growth in commercial, auto, and the credit card portfolios.

Turning to page 4, let me highlight a few balance sheet trends. With the expectation of rates remaining lower for longer, we grew our investment securities portfolio by $18.5 billion with $38 billion of gross purchases in the second quarter, significantly higher than the $5 billion of purchases last quarter, and higher than the $26 billion of average quarterly purchases last year. We completed these purchases before the rate decline late in the quarter driven by the Brexit vote.

We also added to duration as we've done in the past with interest rates swaps that convert a portion of our variable rate commercial loans to fixed rate, a $13 billion increase in swap notional from first quarter. Even with these actions, we remain asset sensitive. Long-term debt increased $16 billion, with $24 billion of issuances, including a $10.7 billion issued by the holding company which we expect to be grandfathered as TLAC eligible.

As we highlighted at Investor Day, we expect that we will need to increase our portfolio of qualifying TLAC by approximately $[50 billion] in order to be compliant, including a 100 basis point buffer which we plan to complete through measured issuance over the phase-in period of approximately five years. However, this year we have a high level of debt maturing, so some of our eligible TLAC issuance this year will be used to offset these maturities.

Turning to the income statement overview on page 5, revenue declined $33 million from the first quarter, as growth in net interest income was offset by lower non-interest income. I will highlight the drivers of these trends throughout the call, but let me discuss how the businesses we've sold and acquired impacted our results this quarter.

As I mentioned at Investor Day, for several years now, we've been focused on reducing non-core businesses, simplifying our organization, and improving our risk profile. In the first-quarter, we sold our crop insurance business, and our results include a $381 million gain from that sale. While the impact to our ongoing earnings from selling this business is negligible, the sale did reduce insurance revenue and related insurance expense this quarter. In the second quarter, we sold our health benefit services business for a $290 million gain. The go-forward effects from the sale of this business is not material to our financial results.

Our results this quarter also reflected the acquisition of the GE Capital businesses that we completed in the first quarter, including the full quarter impact of the $26.7 billion of commercial and industrial loans and leases that closed on March 1. As we stated at Investor Day, the quarterly benefit to net interest income from the GE Capital acquisition was approximately $300 million.

Lease income also increased this quarter from the operating leases acquired, along with corresponding higher operating lease expense. The acquisition of the Asia segment of GE Capital's Commercial Distribution Finance business was completed on July 1, and the remaining international assets of approximately $2 billion are expected to close later this year. We're pleased with the overall integration of the GE Capital businesses, and we still expect the GE Capital acquisition to be modestly accretive to our results this year.

As shown on page 6, we had continued strong loan growth in the second quarter, up 8% from a year ago, and 1% from the first quarter. Period end commercial loan balances grew $6.3 billion from first quarter. Remember, the GE Capital acquisition only impacted average loan growth this quarter.

Consumer loans increased $3.6 billion linked-quarter, as growth in first mortgage loans, auto, credit card, and securities-based lending was partially offset by declines in junior lien mortgages, and seasonally lower student lending. Our total average loan yield was stable at 4.16%, as the full quarter benefit from the GE Capital acquisition was offset by lower consumer yields.

On page 7, we highlight our broad-based year-over-year loan growth. C&I loans were up $39 billion or 14%, driven by the GE Capital acquisitions and broad-based organic growth. Commercial real estate loans grew $10.7 billion or 8%, primarily in our real estate mortgage portfolio.

Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $9.3 billion or 3%, with strong growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgage loans. As a reminder, we sell our conforming mortgage loan originations to the agencies. This portfolio also reflected the continued run-off of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio.

Auto loans were up $4.1 billion or 7%, with origination volume up 2%, while we maintained our underwriting and pricing discipline. Credit card balances were up $3 billion or 10%, reflecting new account openings and increases in active accounts. Other revolving credit and installment loans were up $2.1 billion or 6%, with growth in securities-based lending, personal lines and loans, and student loans.

As highlighted on page 8, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the second quarter, up $51.4 billion or 4% from a year ago. Consumer and small business banking deposits increased 8% from a year ago, and primary consumer checking customers grew 4.7% from a year ago. Our average deposit cost was 11 basis points, up 1 basis point from first quarter, and 3 basis points from a year ago, reflecting an increase in deposit pricing for certain wholesale banking customers.

Page 9 highlights our revenue diversification. Our revenue continued to be relatively balanced between net interest and non-interest income. While the drivers of non-interest income have varied, fee income was also 47% of revenue a year ago, and last quarter.

Market sensitive revenue, which includes trading and gains on debt and equity securities, can vary based on market conditions during the quarter. Our market sensitive results in the second quarter, which included strong gains from trading and debt security gains, was partially offset by lower equity gains. The sum were only $85 million higher than the five quarter average.

We grew net interest income $66 million from first quarter, primarily driven by loan growth including the full quarter benefit of the assets acquired from GE Capital. The benefit from loan growth was partially offset by reduced income in our investment securities portfolio, reflecting accelerated pre-payments primarily on our mortgage-backed securities.

We also had higher interest expense from the long-term debt issuances that I highlighted earlier on the call, and lower interest income from trading assets. The net interest margin declined 4 basis points from the first quarter, primarily due to growth in long-term debt and deposits, and reduced income from investment securities.

All other balance sheet growth, mix changes and repricing was beneficial to the NIM. We grew net interest income in the second quarter by 4% from a year ago, even with an 11 basis point reduction in NIM, and we continue to believe that we can grow net interest income on a full-year basis in 2016, compared with 2015 in the current rate environment.

While total non-interest income decreased $99 million from the first quarter, we had growth in many areas that reflect our focus on our key business drivers, including increases in service charges on deposit accounts, brokerage fees, trust and investment management, investment banking, card fees, gains on mortgage loan originations, trading gains on higher customer accommodation activity, and lease income reflecting the full quarter benefit from the GE Capital acquisition.

Total mortgage banking revenue which includes both the gain on sale from originations and servicing income declined $184 million from the first quarter. Production revenue increased $306 million or 41% reflecting higher originations. Origination volume was $63 billion, up 43% from the first quarter due to the seasonally stronger purchase market, and increased refinancing due to lower rates. Applications were up 23% from the first quarter, and we ended the quarter with a $47 billion application pipeline, up 21% from first quarter, and up 24% from a year ago.

Since Brexit and the related decrease in mortgage rates, we've seen refinance activity increase with our retail application volumes up approximately 15% to 20% in recent weeks, and we currently expect origination volume to be somewhat higher in the third quarter compared with the second quarter.

Our production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgage originations was 166 basis points in the second quarter, down 2 basis points from the first quarter. Releases of our mortgage loan repurchase liability increased $69 million from first quarter, which also contributed to higher production revenue.

Servicing income declined $490 million from first quarter, primarily driven by changes in MSR valuation adjustments which were positive last quarter, and slightly negative in the second quarter. These MSR valuation adjustments are outside the scope of our hedging and vary over time, as MSR valuation assumptions are updated. Overall, we're pleased with our hedge results in the second quarter, given the increased rate volatility late in the quarter.

Servicing income also declined from higher quarterly unreimbursed servicing costs, primarily related to FHA loans. Other income declined $392 million from first quarter. The reduction was driven by a decline in hedge ineffectiveness income, from $379 million in first quarter to $56 million in the second quarter. The decline also reflected the gain from the sale of the crop insurance business recognized last quarter, and the gain on the sale of our health benefit services business in the second quarter, with the net impact from these sales of $91 million lower other income compared with the first quarter.

As shown on page 12, expenses declined $162 million from first quarter driven by lower personnel expenses which are typically higher in the first quarter due to higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching, as well as annual equity awards to retirement eligible team members. Expenses also declined from lower operating losses, down $120 million from the first quarter on lower litigation expense. Insurance expenses declined $89 million, reflecting the sale of the crop insurance business in the first quarter.

Partially offsetting these declines was an increase in $186 million from outside professional services, after typically lower expenses in the first quarter. Operating lease depreciation expense was up $117 million from first quarter, reflecting the full quarter impact of the leases acquired from GE Capital. As a reminder, beginning in the third quarter, we estimate that our total FDIC assessment will increase by approximately $100 million per quarter, reflecting the temporary FDIC surcharge which became effective July 1.

Our efficiency ratio was 58.1% in the second quarter, and we currently expect to operate at the higher end of our targeted efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year of 2016. While we're already operating at one of the best efficiency ratios in the industry, we remain focused on managing expenses while actively reinvesting in the franchise for future growth.

While total expenses have increased, we've reduced expenses in many categories, even as we've grown the balance sheet by acquiring businesses and adding new customers. The increase in expenses has primarily been related to risk, compliance, and technology spending, reflected in higher personnel expense, outside professional services, and contract services. We've also continue to invest in innovation to better serve our customers.

Let me give you just a few examples. During the second quarter, we launched the FastFlex small business loan, an online fast decision loan that is funded as soon as the next business day. This was an innovation we built in-house. In addition, we launched yourFirstMortgage, a new home loan program to help more qualified first-time homebuyers and low- to moderate-income consumers become homeowners. Early reaction to this program has been positive, with over $1 billion of applications in the first 30 days.

In wholesale banking, we introduced biometric authentication by piloting eyeprint image capture technology in our commercial electronic office mobile channel. This slide highlights just a few examples that we have recently announced. We're working on additional products and services within our innovation group that are scheduled to be released over the coming quarters, that we believe will add tangible, long-term value for our customers and shareholders.

Turning to our business segments, starting on page 14, community banking earned $3.2 billion in the second quarter, down 1% from a year ago, and 4% from the first quarter. We remained focused on providing outstanding customer service, and achieved record store customer loyalty scores during the second quarter, and the highest year-to-date retail banking household retention in four years.

We continually work to enhance customer satisfaction and transparency, and ensure customers are receiving the right products to meet their financial needs, because the key to our success is long-lasting customer relationships built on trust. For example, an hour after opening a new deposit account, our customers are sent a customized welcome email, including a summary of accounts, and ways to get the full value from their accounts.

We're also focused on using innovation to enhance our customer experience. Mobile banking is our most frequently used channel, and we have 18 million mobile active users. Beginning August 1, our mobile customers will be able to make real-time person-to-person payments. P2P payments are not new to Wells Fargo, as our customers conducted over $10 billion in P2P volume through our SurePay service in 2015.

We are the number one debit card issuer by transaction volume which increased 9% from a year ago, while dollar volume was $76.4 billion, up 8% from a year ago. Credit card purchase volume was $19.4 billion, up 10% from a year ago, benefiting from 8% active account growth. Credit card penetration of retail banking households increased to 45.6%, up from 44.6% a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $2.1 billion in the second quarter, down 5% from a year ago, and up 8% from the first quarter. The decline from a year ago was driven by higher provision expense related to the oil and gas portfolio. However, charge-offs for wholesale banking are still historically low with only 27 basis points of net charge-offs annualized in the second quarter. Revenue grew 10% from a year ago and 5% linked-quarter, as net interest income and non-interest income both increased on a year-over-year and linked-quarter basis.

Loan growth remained strong, driven by acquisitions and broad-based organic growth, with average loans up $65.2 billion or 17% from a year ago, the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. Spreads on new originations were slightly better than the existing portfolio. Average deposit balances declined $6.6 billion from a year ago, driven by lower international deposits from market volatility, and our pricing discipline in the competitive rate environment.

Wealth and investment management earned $584 million in the second quarter, stable from a year ago, and up 14% from the first quarter. Our diversified revenue streams provided stability during a period of market volatility. Second-quarter revenue of $3.9 billion was up 2% linked-quarter, and down 1% year-over-year. Our continued emphasis on meeting our client's financial needs through planned-based relationships resulted in record high WIM client assets of $1.7 trillion, up 2% from a year ago, with growth resulting from both existing client relationships as well as new client acquisition.

Net interest income was up 12% year-over-year, driven by continued strong balance sheet growth. Average deposits were up 9% from a year ago, and loans were up 12%, the 12th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth. Loan growth was broad-based, with strong client demand across a number of product offerings.

We are very excited to welcome Kristi Mitchem, who became the Head of Wells Fargo asset management on June 1. She has a strong industry experience, and will lead this business into the next phase of strategic expansion and growth.

Turning to page 17, credit results continued to benefit from our diversified portfolio, with only 39 basis points of annualized net charge-offs. Net charge-offs increased $38 million from the first quarter, including an increase of $59 million from our oil and gas portfolio, which was partially offset by $46 million of lower consumer real estate losses.

Nonperforming assets decreased to $433 million from the first quarter, as lower residential and commercial real estate nonaccruals and foreclosed assets were partially offset by higher oil and gas nonaccruals. As I mentioned earlier, we had a $150 million reserve build during the quarter, primarily related to loan growth in the commercial, auto and credit card portfolios.

Slide 18 highlights our oil and gas portfolio. While oil prices have risen from where they were a year ago, there continues to be pressure in the oil and gas sector. We had $263 million of net charge-offs in this portfolio in the second quarter, up $59 million from the first quarter, with approximately 94% of losses from the E&P and services sectors. Nonaccrual loans were $2.6 billion, up $651 million from the first quarter on weaker financial performance, the run-off of borrower hedges, and less sponsor support.

Approximately 90% of nonaccruals were current on interest and principal. Most of the losses we've taken were from nonaccruals that were current, but we recorded losses based on our judgment of not being repaid in full. Our oil and gas loans outstanding declined 4% from the first quarter, and were down 2% from a year ago.

Oil and gas loans of $17.1 billion are less than 2% total loans outstanding. Our oil and gas loan exposure which includes unfunded commitments and loans outstanding was also down 4% from first quarter, and down 10% from a year ago, primarily driven by borrowing base reductions. We had no defensive draws in the second quarter. And as in every challenging cycle, we're also seeing opportunities, and we originated new loans during the second quarter to well-qualified borrowers.

Criticized loans which include nonaccrual loans were down $1.7 billion or 17% from first quarter, reflecting paydowns, borrowing base upgrades, and net charge-offs. And for the first time in the past six quarters, we did not have a reserve build for our oil and gas portfolio, and reserve coverage was stable at 9.2% of total oil and gas loans outstanding.

Our reserves declined from $1.7 billion to $1.6 billion, reflecting the increase in energy prices, the slower pace of deterioration in credit quality, improved criticized asset levels, and the smaller loan portfolio. Overall, the performance of our oil and gas portfolio in the second quarter was consistent with our expectations, and our experience of managing through many cycles will continue to benefit us, and our customers as we move through the remainder of the cycle.

Turning to page 19, our capital levels remained strong, with our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio fully phased-in at 10.6% in the second quarter, well above the regulatory minimum in buffers and our internal buffer. We reduced our common shares outstanding by 27.4 million shares through share repurchases of 44.8 million. We also increased our common stock dividend in the second quarter to $0.38 per share. Our net payout ratio was 62%, within our targeted range of 55% to 75%.

In summary, our second quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model. We had solid returns with a 1.2% ROA, 11.7% ROE, and our return on tangible common equity was 14.15%. We've continue to benefit from executing on our vision, with success in growing customers, loans, and deposits.

The headwinds from a flatter yield curve and a lower for longer rate environment creates challenges for all financial institutions. But we'll continue to focus on what we can control, earning lifelong relationships with our customers which drive our long-term growth opportunities. John and I will now answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Just taking a step back, John, I think you said in your prepared remarks that investors own this Company, given your ability to grow earnings, regardless of what's happening in the markets. If this flatter yield curve persists, and we don't have -- we don't see rate hikes from the Fed, I'm wondering what you think are your stronger, strongest levers for supporting EPS growth from here?

Is it continued balance sheet growth? Is it even more disciplined expense management? Is it growth in fees, in businesses where you don't have scale yet? Just trying to figure out, Wells Fargo always has a reputation for pulling on levers to support EPS growth, and I'm wondering as we look out within the next 12 months what you think the most impactful ones are?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I think it's all of the above, Erika. You mentioned in broad terms, the likeliest sources. If rates are going to remain lower, we will work hard at earning asset growth, and the first call on our capital and liquidity is to serve customers. So we will be looking for loan growth, and we've had great success in our organic loan growth in commercial categories, as well as in consumer categories. So that would be job one.

I think we're seeing nice momentum across a variety of the fee streams that we have. I mentioned some of them in my remarks. But there are many, and we've -- some of them are businesses where we already have complete scale, and some of them are businesses that we're, where we're under indexed, and continuing to grow. So maybe the long-term opportunity is even bigger.

I think we're working hard at expense discipline in this environment to accomplish all that we're trying to accomplish in compliance and risk management. But innovate at the same time, and stay within our range, which we've managed to do.

And we're, as I also called out, we are comping over periods where we had been releasing excess allowance. And now because our loan portfolio is growing, we're building some allowance. So we're muscling through that headwind. But we're accomplishing our goals.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me just drill down little bit on the expense side, Erika. We operate within our 55% to 59% range on efficiency ratio, which is -- you know that's either at, or close to or at the top of our industry, surely for our large bank peers. We've spent a lot of money in the last couple of years around things like compliance and risk management and so forth. And as you build those, you spend more money. Once you get into a rhythm, there's an opportunity to get more eloquent, start to take some of those front end costs out, and build it in as part of your process.

John also mentioned that we continue to look to simplify our business, to get more standard. And frankly, a lot of the investments we're making on customer service and customer convenience has a front end cost component, but a back end benefit. So those things are all on the table. We continue to look at those. And in a lower for longer environment, pennies and nickels and dimes matter.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And as we think about balance sheet mix management near-term, I'm wondering if, what I guess, it would take to maybe extend, even more aggressively extend duration, and protect the margin near-term? Or you're not going to manage your assets and liabilities based on how the market is thinking about the curve near-term?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So it's a good question. And the things that we're balancing are -- and readjusting constantly are our expectation for what rates are going to do next, and whether today is a better or worse entry point, than waiting a quarter or waiting longer. We're balancing the capital sensitivity of what happens when you meaningfully add duration, at what might be a cyclically low point in rates. Which we're saying, we think it's going to be lower for longer, but we have to sensitize ourselves to what happens if we get much more invested here and rates move up, and that destroys capital. So that's a limiter in some sense.

And then, we've got our liquidity constraints of how we might deploy, what we might use, and what it means in terms of available liquidity. So there's a delicate balance of going on, all the time. But I would say that we are relatively convinced -- that we may not be this low forever. But we're, like we said a year ago, our expectation is lower for longer out the curve. And we're going to keep putting money to work.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hi.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: This is going to be a very short-term specific question, but it will save us [work] later today. So you had a $290 million gain on the sale of the health benefit services and that added, I guess, about $0.04. So if we strip out that $0.04 from your $1.01, it would mean you fell short of consensus.

Are there any other items and expenses, or anywhere else that might have mitigated that gain? In other words, when you look at the results, do you think they met consensus? And if so, what offset that $0.04 gain?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, I don't create a detailed reconciliation back to the consensus versus our numbers. We're looking at the total outputs, every quarter. We've got a laundry list of things that might be seasonal, that might be episodic.

There could be gains from securities portfolio. We've been selling a handful of non-core businesses, and some of them have given rise to gains. So there isn't that type of a reconciliation.

I would look at those categories of revenue that come through, and look at the multi-quarter, the five quarter average, and think about how far above or below, we are at any quarter, versus that longer-term average. And model it or manage it that way.

MIKE MAYO: Could you give us some of your laundry list?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Some of our laundry list?

MIKE MAYO: Yes, like what would you -- (multiple speakers) --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: But my laundry list is what you guys feed back, which are market sensitive items that you often call out as unreliably different from quarter-to-quarter. Some of the mortgage activity, which can be a little bit more episodic, mortgage hedging activity, this is what some analysts refer to as things that they've had a hard time modeling. I mentioned gains on the sale of debt or equity securities.

There's seasonal impacts on things like investment banking fees that happen at certain times. All of those things ebb and flow. And I would look at the longer-term, either calendar adjusted or multi-quarter averages, and think about it that way.

MIKE MAYO: All right. And then, just one more follow up then. Just when you look at mortgage revenues this quarter, were they where you thought they'd be, and what do you expect going ahead? You said the mortgage pipeline is up quite a bit.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I'd say on the origination side, they were where we expected them to be. And as you heard, the pipeline is full. I think margins are in a good place, and we anticipate having a good third quarter on the origination side.

Our mortgage hedging results in the second quarter, and the net economic impact of mortgage servicing was lower than, for example, the five quarter average. It was higher in the quarter before, so the difference is even more stark. But I think we're -- we think it is a great time to be the leader in the mortgage business right now, because homes are selling, and also because people are refinancing.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So we are expecting good things.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Normura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Thank you. Good morning. We've seen loan growth outpacing deposit growth for several quarters, at both Wells Fargo and the industry in general. And a post LCR world, where HQLA levels are a factor, how high do think we can expect loan to deposit ratios to rise? And with loan growth continuing at a healthy clip, can you envision a scenario where competition for deposits begins to heat up among banks, and basically causes them to start raising rates, possibly even before the Fed, as competition for deposits intensifies? Can you speak to that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I suppose we could. I think we're probably in the higher end of the range of loan to deposit ratios ourselves, in the high [70%s] I guess, at this point. And, of course, there are a lot of other sources of liquidity that are coming in as a result -- at least for G-SIBs as a result of TLAC, et cetera, and some reliable sources of non-deposit wholesale funding that are part of a healthy liability management mix. So funding never really seems to be the problem.

We've imagined, frankly, since LCR was first proposed that people would be competing for deposits, especially smaller firms who have less of a value proposition for customers, and they really have to pay for deposits in order to attract them. And it really hasn't seemed to come to pass. I don't know whether aggregate credit creation is outstripping aggregate deposit generation by so much, that it's going to cause firms at the margin to raise prices, compete for deposits, and drive up the cost for the rest of us.

It could happen. We haven't seen it. What we're seeing among assets is a lot more things changing hands. So a big part of our loan growth are loans coming out of GE, and coming onto our books, and loans coming off of other people's books and onto our books, as opposed to the aggregates being impacted in the way that you described so.

JOHN STUMPF: Bill, I credit, John, in fact -- I don't know this, but my guess is aggregate credit generation in the private sector -- forget public debt for a second here -- but I doubt that that's growing faster than deposits. I look at the last seven, eight years here, since our merger with Wachovia.

The time of the merger, we had something less than $800 billion of deposits. Now we're over $1.2 trillion. So we've grow in deposits, even after the run-off of those high-priced CDs by $400 billion or $500 billion. We're up maybe $100 billion on loans during that period of time, so deposits have far outstripped loans.

In fact, if you believer lower for longer, there's going to be a hunger for earning assets. And while a quarter or two might look different, recently, if we look at in our last year, the growth of $51 billion order of deposits, versus $80 billion of loans -- if you strip out some of the loans that we purchased, if you look at an organic basis, we're still growing deposits faster. So it's -- I would -- I doubt -- I don't see pressure from that perspective.

BILL CARCACHE: That's great color. Thank you. If I could ask a follow-up on the consumer credit side of your business. How do you think about the appropriate level of reserve coverage in auto and card? And do you think the current environment is supportive of a path where charge-offs and reserves in those businesses can grow in line with loans, such that the consumer credit provision is not a headwind to your earnings growth?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's a good question, and it will be different for every bank depending on what type of consumer credit they have on their books. As we mentioned, we added a little bit to our allowance this quarter. And in part it was from consumer credit, but that's based on the growth in the portfolio, not because of any meaningful change in underlying behavior.

My sense is, that if those loans are priced properly for their risk, and given the way that we provide for them as those portfolios grow, that it shouldn't become too much of a headwind. Now we said earlier that we are happy to provide more reserve, more allowance, when we're growing our loan portfolio. That's because it was going to happen, as we came out of a period of releases, and are moving into a period of net provisioning and growth.

But it's going to feel different for everybody, based on the quality of the loans that they put on their books, based on the pricing related to the quality of the loans that they put on their books. So it's hard to generalize, and I think we feel pretty good about it.

BILL CARCACHE: Understood. That is very helpful. Thank you for taken my questions.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi. Good morning. John, just a follow-up on the credit there. The charge-off rate was pretty stable quarter-to-quarter. Just wondering underneath that, are there any areas of credit portfolios where losses are still improving, and some that are starting to normalize? And do you have any short-term outlook on credit staying stable, benign?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, if you set aside oil and gas for a moment from our aggregate results, I think our net charge-offs were something like 28 basis points on the portfolio overall. Just for analytical purposes, that's an interesting number. That would suggest that they've continued to improve, and obviously 39 basis points when considering oil and gas. I think it's a reasonable expectation that consumer credit performance normalizes somewhat.

So that we've had the best of times, it probably gets a little bit more average, all things being equal. As Bill asked, I don't know that that makes it a real headwind. I think that means the expected case is probably a little bit lower ROA than the existing case for most people who've been benefiting from the best of times in credit. But not so meaningfully, that it causes us to want to curtail growth, based on the way we approach the market.

Where as I mentioned, we are happy with our auto growth. We've maintained our pricing and our risk discipline.

JOHN STUMPF: And John, the 28 basis points John just mentioned to you -- there's a lot of John's here. But for this quarter, ex oil and gas, is equal to what it was a year ago. So it's -- so there's some movement within those categories, but as you know housing is getting better everywhere, and that hugely benefits us. So while there might be some more normalization in one part of the consumer, it might be offset by another part of the consumer.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. A couple of call outs are on the consumer real estate side of things. In second mortgages, I think we are down below 50 basis points of charge-offs, which for home equity loans is -- you can't get much better than that. (multiple speakers). And on 1-4 family first mortgage loans, I think we are in the 2 basis point charge-off range right now, which is something to celebrate when it's happening, but it doesn't feel like a permanent state of affairs.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then, a quick follow-up on net interest income. Assuming the rate environment doesn't change much, can you talk a little bit about the puts and takes for growing net interest income, maybe size up the degree of difficulty of growing that going forward?

And then, just on the liquidity, cash on the balance sheet. When we look at that fed funds sold, like roughly $300 billion, is there any way for us to get a sense of how much of that might be re-deployable, versus how much is needed to meet the requirements of LCR and other regulatory needs to hold liquidity?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So there's not much limitation on the redeployment of that into HQLA, while still satisfying the liquidity coverage ratio. So it really gets back to the, when is the right time, and how much at that time? If you're, just for example, buying treasuries because of the capital implications that it creates, by putting more AFS securities on the books. You're that much more exposed to a back-up. So there is a trade-off there.

For non-HQLA, the limitations are different, because you're losing the benefit of that liquidity, and we continued to mention the ability to move out of cash or HQLA and into risk assets. All things being equal based on a snapshot as tens of billions of dollars of activity.

You saw what we did last year when we -- or earlier this year, as we were sizing up taking the GE assets out of the book -- our books. We actually went out and did a little bit of incremental funding in the marketplace to have that liquidity set aside.

And now, we're allowing that to run off. It was relatively short-term. But it makes sense for us to have ready access to something, some -- call it $200 billion worth of instant liquidity at any point of time, that's given our size, given our risk profile and giving our stress cases. Is that helpful?

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes. Thanks, John. Just the broader comment about just kind of degree of difficulty growing NII overall in this environment? Yes, thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it is harder to grow net interest income in a lower rate environment than otherwise, which is obvious. The short end of the curve is one thing, but this move down in seven years and out, is just as hard and just as meaningful because of the redeployment. So it's still our plan and our goal.

And what we're telling you is that we intend to grow net interest income, even if there are no rate moves. And we're doing it by adding by redeploying cash into HQLA and other earning assets, by looking everywhere for customers, where we can make quality loans. And those are the big items. So it's our plan. It's our effort. It's what we are all working toward but it's harder.

JOHN STUMPF: And John, the biggest influence that Brexit had on our Company was not on, frankly, a direct impact on the way we do business or customers or anything like that, it really was the big move down in long-term rates.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: One other thing to say is, it's a great time to be a borrower. It's a great time to be one of our customers. The mortgage business is one obvious place to look for the origination fee generation or gain generation, but across the board I would expect more, everything is more affordable on a financed basis. So it helps.

JOHN MCDONALD: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Kevin Barker, Piper Jaffray.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Thank you. In regards to your servicing results within the mortgage bank, were there any changes in the way you hedged that asset this quarter? Or was there something specific around the rate curve, and the movement in the yield curve in the second quarter versus the first-quarter that would have caused the hedging gains to be less than expected?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, it's a good question. There wasn't really any change to the hedging approach, and our hedging results just strictly speaking, accomplished what they were intended to. There were a handful of items that went, call it in our favor in the first quarter, that were negatives in the second-quarter. And some of them of are input -- are just model inputs, in terms of how the MSR valuation calculation works.

Some of it obviously, was just lower servicing fees. That's not a hedging outcome, but it contributed to the net servicing benefits, things have speeded up. Of course, we're getting more servicing calls away from us. Even as we originate at this pace, there's more servicing getting called away from us, as others are originate rapidly as well.

So I would expect that to normalize, and I would think about that also as something more along the lines of a multi-quarter average. One other item I would point out is that the unreimbursed servicing costs was a net drag, an incremental net drag this quarter this as well. And that's mostly around FHA activity.

KEVIN BARKER: In regards to that the FHA activity, what is the headwind that you're seeing from unreimbursed insurance claims this quarter, or how would you look at the run rate from that, in that line item?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I think we're talking about a couple hundred million dollars of unreimbursed direct costs in the second quarter, and the run rate is probably half of that, looking back over the last several quarters.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. And then, in regards to the introduction of yourFirstMortgage, have you seen an incremental increase in your overall mortgage originations from the introduction of that product? Or would you expect that to accelerate on a go forward basis?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, so there's an increase all things being equal on the agency side of things, but many of those borrowers might have been FHA eligible borrowers prior to the introduction of that program. So in some sense, we're shifting origination from one program to another.

It's a -- we think it's a very high-quality program. It's -- the way we've described it and constructed it, it's never worse for customer, it's often better for a customer because it's got a, it's different approach to MI.

It's more borrower-friendly. So there should be more availability for it, and it should help grow our originations over time. And as we've mentioned, it's particularly valuable to us because it gives access to mortgage credit to low and middle income borrowers, and first-time home buyers who are people that we're really trying to serve.

KEVIN BARKER: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, on the follow-up to Kevin's questions on yourFirstMortgage, is this very similar to an FHA product, but outside the FHA arena to a Fannie and Freddie product, i.e., is it low FICO, low down payment type loans?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it's lower down payment. Actually, the first part of your question is, this is an agency program. This is a Wells Fargo and Fannie program. It is geared to serve the first-time homebuyer, and the low and middle income homebuyer. So there is some overlap with people that the FHA might be serving as I mentioned.

And it is built around a lower initial down payment to make it easier for those people to access credit. I wouldn't describe it as a predominantly lower FICO, lower credit quality. But more of a structure for people who have a lower down payment available.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. And Paul, it really looks at those first-time homebuyers especially. So it really looks to serve that market, who many times have a lower down payment available.

PAUL MILLER: And this product will be sold, I mean, either sold, is it sold or wrapped by a Fannie Mae guarantees?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's agency mortgage productions. So it doesn't look any different on our books. It goes right into agency securities.

So there's no different risk profile on our books. And frankly, one of the reasons that the program makes so much sense for us, is because we have such a commercial relationship with Fannie, in terms of knowing what our risks are, what their risks are, and when those risks pass, and it's very helpful.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. I don't know if you disclose this or not, but do you know what your recapture rate is on your refis right now on your book? You have one of the biggest books out there on the MSR. Are you able to recapture a lot of those refis?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So we do capture a lot of our refis. I don't think we disclose the capture rate. We probably do disclose our market share, both in originations and in servicing.

I don't have them at my fingertips, but we'll come back to you with the most recent specifics. And that relationship will help you, I mean, there's obviously other things going on there because a lot of a mortgage origination is not refi activity. But that might be helpful.

PAUL MILLER: Hey, guys, thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: But Paul, just one quick thing. We are recapturing less today as John mentioned, because some of products we're no longer in. So some of that refinance, is refinancing away from us, where we would have captured more in the past. Some of the higher risk categories.

PAUL MILLER: Yes. Okay. Guys, thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: To follow up on expenses, a lot of talk earlier about the investment spend, the risks, the compliance, obviously growth areas, and then, eventually getting the payback on that. As we think about just the pace of investment spend, and that relationship of getting it back on the other side, what inning are we in, in terms of still ramping on the investment and still waiting on the payoff?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I'd say we're in the middle innings of the investment. We'll be doing it for a few years, and we've been doing it for a few more years I'm sure, and we'll always be innovating.

But in some cases, we're getting the payback. You saw at Investor Day, the moves that we made toward more of a paperless store. And we talked about the specifics in terms of what the benefit is of taking paper, labor, storage, transportation out of stores. That's happened, that's in our run rate.

A lot of the digital and mobile migration that we have of customer activity, is taking personal interactions out of those types of transactions. It's taking paper out for sure, and those benefits feed right into the run rate as they happen.

John was mentioning the initial investment and build to create some of these new programs, in compliance and risk management for example. And the fact, that once they're highly effective and repeatable, then there's an opportunity to automate, streamline, to learn from how we got there, and to make them more efficient. I'd say those opportunities are -- we're always learning, but they're probably a little bit more in the future.

And then, who knows where we'll be going with the increase in mobility, et cetera. My sense is we're just going to keep benefiting. Customers benefit on the one hand, but from an expense perspective, we'll be benefiting as well. I'd point out the P2P activity as another place where we're taking checks out, taking cash handling out, increasing customer service, but doing it at a lower cost to serve. So there's a lot of that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Are you still at the point where you're increasing overall investment spend, or are you able to remix some of it, so that it's still at a high level, but not necessarily going up?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think it's still going up a little bit. We've been doing that, while taking expense out of our standard run rate, in order to accommodate it, while staying within our 55% to 59%. So and as the nature of MobileFirst and technological solutions first occurs, we're always going to be spending at a high level. We'll just keep, at least for innovative types of activities, and we'll keep doing what we're doing, and taking expense out of our business as usual.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then, just separately, you mentioned in a press release about the higher amortization on the mortgage bond book, which makes sense given the sharp drop in the rate. But do you have the figures, in terms of how much it was this quarter versus last?

And remind us how your strategy or approach there, is there like a mark to marketing, or is there a smoothing effect? One of your peers has what feels like a mark-to-market impact, so they take their hit upfront. Some other peers smooth out a little bit more. Remind us how your approach is?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: What I would point out is that we're amortizing premiums on mortgage securities in particular, that are highly prepayment sensitive. And in this quarter, the net interest margin or net interest dollars, negative impact of getting premium book value bonds called away at par was -- I think the number is $100 million -- I'm confirming, its $100 million. So that's one way of thinking about it.

So we put a mortgage security on at a premium. We amortize that premium over an expected life and an expected CPR, things come in faster, and we have to write off the remaining premium when it happens. This quarter, that impact was $100 million.

MATT O'CONNOR: And do you have that for last quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't think I do handy, but it wasn't $100 million. So less.

MATT O'CONNOR: Got it. Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS: Well, hi. How are you? Maybe just two quick ones on credit. First, in auto lending, you mentioned the [Manheim] is up a little bit, but severities are up a little bit as well. What's driving that. I know it's not (inaudible), but what's driving that disconnect?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Manheim is up a little bit, and was up in each of the last few months. And I think as we've said, we have an expectation that that can't go on forever. And that's part of why we would say that we expect future losses to be a little bit more normal in that business, than what's been happening. The - any change in severity is really just a change in the mix, the repo activity, the circumstances of what's been coming. I don't think there's a systematic reason for it.

JOHN STUMPF: I would just add that, it's been a really strong new car sales the last couple years. Some of those go out in lease programs, and they come off lease.

So our guess, is that there will be more late model, used cars on the market, put pressure on Manheim, on the other hand which could cause some normalization in losses. On the other hand, that's really where we play, and where we have a lot of market expertise. So it's a bit of an offset.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you. And then, on commercial real estate. I mean, I guess, as I think about both your commentary and data, as well as like what the OCC is saying, et cetera. There's just kind of general concern around underwriting standards, but at the same time, the current data around loan growth is pretty good. And on charge-offs, kind of bouncing between zero and net recovery. So it's about as good as it can get.

How are you thinking about the commercial real estate cycle now? Is it just pockets of concern, or is there a concern that there's maybe a more broad-based turn on the horizon, or how you are thinking about the concerns around underwriting standards, versus the very good numbers today?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So I would say that our underwriting approached commercial real estate tends to be at the conservative end of the spectrum, and we have reputation often for better, sometimes to the chagrin of customers for approaching it that way, which helps us well through cycles as you're alluding to. This is a very cyclical business. It is regional and local. It is property type by property type.

There are some areas and some property types where values have been elevated, because people have been willing to accept really, really low returns on their invested capital, and that creates one sort of outcome. And then, there are others, where there's just a lot of supply that's coming on, has come on, has to be absorbed. That creates a different dynamic.

We're seeing that -- we have seen that in some multifamily or luxury single-family from market to market. And in that market, those dynamics have to play out, where that gets absorb at some clearing price.

We're taking the same approach that we've always have. We are sort of relatively low loan-to-value lender. We look very hard at in-place cash flow. We have a lot of incremental borrower guarantees and supplemental protections in our bigger commercial real estate types of financings, and that's -- it's always been true.

So I'm sure when the cycle turns, there will be either property types or geographies where -- that do better or worse. But we're not taking a big change. We're not seeing a big sea change.

Our originations have actually have been slower, certainly were slower before we bought the seasoned GE portfolio. The organic activity, because of the competitive environment and because of the market circumstances cause us to slow down there somewhat.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks, good morning. A question on the investment portfolio, John, you had mentioned that you added a lot of securities this quarter before the rate change, and it looks like you did it mostly in the agency MBS and the held-to-maturity. And I'm just wondering, given that it looks like that average yield was 1.90 below, given that's where the average are. How are you thinking about continuing to build the securities book, versus potentially keeping more of your originated production, where you can get a [3] handle [fill], versus a maybe [1.5] in the securities book?

So what's your trade-off on interest-rate risk versus credit risk, I guess? And does your philosophy change, given where we are in the environmental?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, it's a good question, and it's analysis that we conduct. We, as I'd mentioned earlier, we have been still continuing to sell all of our conforming production. There are limited, but some benefits, limited liquidity attribution, but some benefits to agency mortgage securities, but less so, or not so with loans. So that's part of that determination, there's a different risk profile for carrying loans on the books, obviously versus guaranteed pass-throughs. That's part of the analysis.

We have a reasonably large allocation to single-family [home] loan real estate, residential real estate today because of our jumbo portfolio, which we continue to want to make room for as we serve those customers going forward. So all those things sort of fit together in our risk appetite and have -- setting the [ALCO] considerations aside -- but just from a, how much is enough and what type of risk do you need on your books? We follow the path that we followed.

Which isn't to say that if circumstances changed or persisted, and the allocation opportunities look a little bit different, we wouldn't modify our conclusions. But that's where we've gotten thus far.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then, just a second question on commercial real estate brokerage, just within the other fees category, it's been a good business for you historically. It looked like it's gotten a little softer. Is that purposeful change in how you're doing the business or is it just the environment? Any color there would be great?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Its cyclical. It's a great business for us. We're the best, frankly, in that business. And there's a lot of knock-on benefit in terms of the financing that we do, investment banking that we do for those customers.

But it is cyclical, and it will follow patterns, like the one that we just talked about in terms of what's going on in different markets. That business is interesting, because it's got something for bullish times in commercial real estate, and it's got something for bearish times in commercial real estate, because the same team is involved in helping to define liquidity for properties, and financing for properties when things aren't going well in markets, and when investors are going the other way.

So we like it. But it is a little bit harder to forecast, because it doesn't just trend up over time. It moves around. But it's been a great performer for the last couple years.

KEN USDIN: So there's no change, in terms of how you're approaching it? It just a little bit of an air pocket?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's just, the normal volatility, and what's happening in that business. No change.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Thanks a lot.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, everyone.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, Joe.

JOE MORFORD: The C&I growth seemed a bit softer this quarter, particularly relative to the pace you saw through much of last year. Is there anything to that, besides maybe some impact from energy? And just how in general do you feel business owner confidence is these days, particularly given some of the uncertainties like Brexit and the upcoming election?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I'm not sure what would inspire marginal business owner confidence in this environment. I mean, it's about the same as it has been recently, probably a little bit less certainty, given what's going on around the world. But I don't think of that as having a meaningful impact on the quarter's organic C&I loan growth. It's competitive, and we're out there competing.

There some amount of capital formation around CapEx and in expansion and other projects. Not as much as there would be, if we're in a more vibrant overall economic environment.

There's actually little bit more happening in energy today, than there was over the last several quarters, more capital being raised. More assets are changing hands, which is giving rise to some financing opportunities. So I would think of it more as a season, or a short period of time to measure against. Nothing, no story there.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And then, you also talked earlier about being disciplined on expenses, and getting paper and transactions out of the stores. But kind of more broadly speaking, how are you currently thinking about the overall retail distribution network, particularly given the growth in mobile banking?

Are you considering moving more aggressively, or transitioning to the smaller neighborhood stores? Or perhaps maybe you don't need as much density in certain markets, and can reduce the overall footprint? What's the update there?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. Joe, I think that's an interesting question. We continue to look at that, and we're not oblivious to the changes going on. As you suggest, the mobile offerings are our fastest-growing channel now,18 million of our 20 million-some households now have, use that. And sometimes as their -- most times, as their dominant channel. So we continue to think about that.

Our philosophy has been and will continue to be, we want to serve customers when, where and how they want to be served. We don't want to drive them someplace to our benefit. We want to provide for their benefit. That being said, that's a big area of -- we continue to look at as we innovate, and we see customers change their behaviors.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: (multiple speakers) We're going to make it easier for them to do business with us in other channels as well. And if they change their behavior, then we'll react to that.

JOHN STUMPF: We'll react to it, and that, that could have some meaningful impacts on it.

JOE MORFORD: Right. Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: John Pancari, Evercore.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, John.

JOHN PANCARI: I'll try to be quick given the length of the call here, but I am going to beat a dead horse on the expense topic. But I know, and I appreciate the color you gave on the levers that you can pull, given what we're seeing on the top line side here.

Now what I'm trying to just understand is, like what do we need to see? Maybe it's in terms of where rates go, or overall top line pressure, for you to start to really pull those levers more aggressively? And again, maybe it's around expenses.

And also, longer-term, is the goal to keep the efficiency ratio -- are you okay with that high-end of that range even through 2017, if this top line pressure persists from the curve? Or do you at some point, look to get to the middle of that range again? Thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Here's how we look at expenses. We look at this Company -- in fact, on Wednesday, we had our 164th birthday, and we look at this Company from a long-term perspective.

We've always been thoughtful about how we spend our shareholder's money. We're the stewardship of your capital and their capital. And surely, a longer, lower for longer scenario puts pressure on everything that we do. But we're going to continue to make those investments that we believe are good, long-term investments to help customers succeed financially.

That being said, I do think we're at a point in time where there are some opportunities, that because of changing customer behaviors. So we will, but we're not going to do something that's going to be short-term bright and long-term dull if you will, just because of pressure on the revenue side or the earnings side.

Just assume, that we're going to continue to work really hard on making investments, and also maturing systems, taking out costs that don't add value. In other words, think about of maximizing or monetizing our scale.

JOHN PANCARI: Got it. Got it. Thanks, John. And then, just if rates, if we only see another 25 basis points next year, and that's it, is it fair to assume that you're in the upper range still, of the efficiency ratio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think we probably are, yes.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: Which still is a world-class range.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And don't take for granted how hard one has to work to operate at 58% efficiency ratio. There's a lot that has to happen to stay there, while we're spending the money that we're spending to innovate and improve ourselves, from a compliance risk management and other perspectives.

JOHN PANCARI: Yes, completely understood. All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks. One narrow question, and then perhaps one broader one. On your servicing income, and I'm looking at the data on page 40 of the release, your servicing fees are down year-over-year by -- in order of magnitude something like 20%. But your servicing portfolio is only down about 3%. What's the dynamic there on the servicing income?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So there are older categories of loan product that are running off, that might have different per pound fees associated with them. There's different categories of unreimbursed servicing expenses that get netted against those servicing fees. And I mentioned, we're up $100 million I think in this quarter which contributes to the delta between last year end this year that, a quarter a year ago and this quarter.

But the servicing book has been getting smaller, as we've walked away from higher risk activities, et cetera, and focused more on core, today's core agency mortgage origination. So that phenomena is something to grapple with, when thinking about how that performs over the coming couple of years. As augmented by how successful we are on the origination side, and growing new servicing assets as well.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: But does the pace of change -- I guess, does the pace of change change at all, because of the -- presumably many of the legacy assets are now being refied away, and newer assets may look more like legacy assets in terms of servicing rate?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I think what changes is the cost of service. Because we are working through -- we've had higher foreclosed and work-out expenses over time, there's labor. There's extra compliance. There's a lot going on.

The standards are still -- the new standards are as high as they've ever been, but the incidence will be going down over time. So my sense is that that should improve. There should be some scale there.

And perhaps it's true also, that the per pound revenue or per loan revenue scales into today's run rate. And with each new $1 billion worth of servicing that we add to the book, it doesn't pay the same servicing revenue as a legacy $1 billion. But you'll watch that move slowly over time.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And then, if I can just step back for a moment. Your earnings power for the past several years now has been running just above $4. And, of course, this current quarter, it has sort of affirmed that run rate. And the consensus for next year is closer to $4.30. I'm not asking you to specifically forecast, but could you help us understand like what bridges that increase in earnings power? Presumably rates might be some of it, but is there -- and the balance sheet continues to grow, but in the absence of rates would that figure be achievable, or are we more in a trend line?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, there's a lot of unknowns in that question, and we're not giving guidance on next year. As was mentioned earlier by Erika, in terms of what might happen, or what has to happen as we grow in the future, it will be earning asset growth, loans, and investments. It will be what, how efficient we are on the expense side of things, and then, the whole spectrum of noninterest income generating possibilities. There's a lot of strength in a number of those line items.

JOHN STUMPF: General Electric?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, the GE portfolio added -- not just the $40 billion-odd worth of loans but over 200,000 commercial relationships, that for most of whom weren't meaningful relationships at Wells Fargo already. So it's doing more with customers, and generating more lending opportunity, more noninterest income opportunity, and executing along those lines. It's a lot of work.

JOHN STUMPF: But if you think about the way we do business and our operating model, it's a great model to have for this economic environment, really when you think about it. We're in the real economy. We do have many different businesses. We serve customers broadly and deeply, and I don't think I'd want any other model for this environment.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Don't have to reach.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks, very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks for taking the question. John, what I was, wanting to drill down to, if you think about mortgage refinance, the way you've got the accounting set up, where you recognize at close, and the way that the servicing valuations get hit almost instantaneously when rates fall, you typically have a pressure quarter when refinance kicks in, followed by more favorable outcomes as you move forward. So I just wanted to focus on that, kind of contrast, and make sure that I'm still thinking about that right, as it's kind of built in the past?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think you probably are.

MARTY MOSBY: And then, the only thing I was going to add and follow-up, is if you think about what you were just responding to, the one thing that I think you left out, was the fact that share repurchase will reduce the shares outstanding by about half of that growth that was just highlighted. So capital announcements has a big part of, what would generate any incremental growth, if net income was absolutely flat from this point forward.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We have been benefiting, and we'll continue to benefit from taking share, net share repurchase as a result of our capital plan. It is a driver for people who are measuring in earnings per share. Thanks for pointing that out.

MARTY MOSBY: Yes, thanks.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: At least I think it's still morning anyway. One larger question, and two small ones. The commentary on the oil and gas portfolio and the trends there, seems to be a little bit different than what we've heard from JPMorgan Chase yesterday, and US Bank Corp early this morning, where they seem to be a little less equivocal in the trends.

And it looks like you had a big addition in nonaccruals, but you didn't add to the reserve for the portfolio. Yesterday, Jamie Dimon talked about the companies in their portfolio having greater access to other financing. That seemed to be -- your trends or commentary was little different from that. Can you just -- I mean, are there differences in your oil and gas portfolio, or are you just being cautious here?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I'd say both. There are probably differences. We have a big, broad spectrum of upstream, midstream, and services companies that includes a lot of middle market companies, which are our entire wholesale portfolio does. So the portfolios are probably different. We are generally cautious, however.

I guess, I'd point out that our criticized assets in sum, in energy are down by $1.7 billion. Within that, we moved more into nonperforming in the quarter, which we had expected to do in our outlook as we sat here a quarter ago, which is why our reserve didn't have to go up in connection with that.

I think we're just a little -- it's a little premature to declare victory, because prices are hovering in crude in the $40s, and who knows what the next couple of quarters brings? And we don't want to get ahead of ourselves there.

We're performing great, with 39 basis points of loss all-in with these levels. And so, there's no point in declaring victory.

I would agree, if I didn't mention it, it was an oversight. There's a lot more access to capital among energy companies today, all forms, loans, high yield, high-grade and equity. We're busier in the second quarter than it had been in a while. There are more assets changing hands.

Things are freeing up a little bit, and that's going to help with resolutions. We have recaptured the benefit of that in our analysis, for what our exposures are, but it's true. And it was less true, a couple quarters ago.

JOHN STUMPF: And Nancy, the other thing I -- John mentioned, but I just want to remind or say it again -- even though we added to our nonaccruals, we tend to be conservative. Over 90% of our nonaccrual oil and gas customers are still current on principle and interest payments. Think about that. I mean, that's --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Almost all the losses that we have taken are from loans that are still paying.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. So we're sort of harkening back to the performing/nonperforming era of a couple of decades ago?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. I remember that. That's right.

NANCY BUSH: Yes, I remember. Secondly, mortgage banking gain on sale. Have, can you give us the current margin, and how that stacks up, and if it's strengthening? I mean, if refi activity goes up, I'm assuming that gain on sale margin will strengthen. Can you just affirm that or not?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it was [1.65%], [1.66%] in the quarter, and about the same from the first quarter. I think you're right that, the industry is probably going to have some capacity constraints at this level of application activity. And that's probably, it's at least supportive, for the levels that we are at today. I don't know if it moves up from here, but it feels supportive, because people are working hard to accomplish the throughput that these applications create.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And just one final question. John Stumpf, you raised the dividend what, $0.02 I guess, what last quarter, and you're sort of at the 37% payout ratio, et cetera, et cetera. When would be the next regular dividend meeting, where you would consider a more meaningful dividend increase? And given that your stock is one of the highest yielding in the group, is that necessary at this point?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we increased a $0.005 right, from $0.375 to $0.38. And I would remind, as John did that, and you just suggested that, if you take $0.38, and divide that by $1.01, you get a number that is -- that we are proud about.

We just went through our CCAR process. And I hope you would agree, and I know our investors appreciate the fact that we are shareholder-friendly. We have, of the big banks, or of the G-SIPs, we are a leader in returning capital.

So dividends are important. It speaks of the confidence of our, of how we run the Company, and the earnings momentum that we have. On the other hand, buybacks are also important. So they're both in there.

And we, and the question you asked, we think about that a lot. So we will continue to put all of our emphasis on running a really great business, and returning as much capital as we can. And people should think about the 55% to 75% range.

NANCY BUSH: Thanks for the artful non-answer, John. (laughter)

JOHN STUMPF: You bet, Nancy. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of Brian Kleinhanzl with KBW.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Great, thanks. Yes, just a quick question. When you look at the balance sheet, when you look at, on the liability side of the balance sheet.

If you look at it year-on-year, you've seen deposits up $60 billion, where most of the funding is coming from short-term borrowings and long-term debt. So is there something changing in the depositor base, or are depositors becoming more rate sensitive, and that's why you're not seeing the deposit growth that you once were? Especially this quarter, where it's only been $4 billion on end of period for total deposits? I was just wondering, if there's like a change in the depositors there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, if there's anything specific, I'd say it's among wholesale customers. I think retail deposits grew by 8% year-over-year. And the total grew by 4%, and the balance is coming from wholesale customers who are a little bit more price-sensitive. And in the wake of the 25 basis point move in December, there are some deposits that we paid a little bit more for in wholesale, and some that we didn't, and some that have better liquidity value and some that have worse. And this is how that's shaken out.

You pointed out that there has been some wholesale funding on the liability side. We went out and put on some short-ish term. I think it shows up as long-term because it's beyond a year, but short-ish terms financing to make sure we had funding in place for the GE assets as they came on. Some of that will roll off. Some of it we might hang on to for a while, but it's a mix.

And then, as you also pointed out, we are out there, marching along the TLAC implementation path, and we will be over the course of the next several years. And that will add to that portion of the liability stack.

JOHN STUMPF: Brian, we love all of our deposits and depositors. But if you look at, as John mentioned, if you look at the most core of our core deposits, that would be retail, and especially retail transaction deposits, savings accounts, checking accounts. And if you look at our net primary, which is where people live on those accounts, you look at that growth, and you look at the growth on the retail side, it's been world-class for us so. And so, that continues to march along.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Okay. Great. Thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: I know we ran over, but I want to thank all of you for joining us today, and your interest in Wells Fargo and your questions. And I also want to thank all of our 265,000-plus team members for a great quarter. Thank you much. See you next quarter. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you all for joining. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160716ec7f0015p
  


 HD
 Q1  2016 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,295 words
   PD
14 April 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved. 

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, John Shrewsberry, will discuss first-quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I'll now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today.

Our performance in the first quarter once again benefited from our diversified business model and our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs. While the persistent low rate environment, market volatility, and continued weakness in the oil and gas industry provided some near-term headwinds, our long-term results continue to be driven by our focus on the real economy.

For example, we are the largest lender in the US, and our loan and deposit balances are at an all-time high. We continued to grow our customer base, both organically and through acquisitions, and February was the strongest month for retail bank household growth in five years.

We work to make every relationship, new and existing, a lasting one. And our focus on providing outstanding customer service was recognized, with Wells Fargo ranking number one in customer loyalty among large banks in the 2016 customer loyalty engagement index, conducted by the firm, Brand Keys.

Let me now highlight our results in the first quarter. We generated earnings of $5.5 billion and EPS of $0.99. We grew revenue compared with a year ago by 4%, with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income, and our pre-tax, pre-provision profit grew 5%. Average loans grew $64 billion or 7% from a year ago.

Our deposit franchise once again generated strong customer and balance growth, with average deposits up $44.6 billion or 4% from a year ago. And we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5%.

While deterioration in the oil and gas portfolio drove a $200 million reserve build, the rest of our loan portfolio continued to have strong credit results, with our total net charge-off rate remaining near historical lows at 38 basis points annualized, reflecting the benefit of our diversified loan portfolio. Our strong capital position enabled us to acquire assets from GE Capital. And we returned $3 billion to our shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases in the first quarter.

As you know, yesterday the Federal Reserve and FDIC announced their response to the 2015 resolution plan submitted by eight banks, including Wells Fargo. While we were disappointed to learn that our submission was determined to have deficiencies in certain areas, we are focused on fully addressing these issues as part of our 2016 submission.

Turning to the economic environment, while signs of economic uncertainty remain in the global economy, as well as volatility in the capital markets, the US economy, which is the primary driver of Wells Fargo's results, continues to be resilient. For example, while low energy prices have negatively impacted the oil and gas industry, the US is still a net energy importer, and the benefits of falling prices have outweighed the costs for consumers and most businesses. Job creation in the US remains robust with 2.7 million jobs added over the past year alone.

Consumers have also benefited from low interest rates and modest borrowing. In fact, servicing financial obligations required just 15% of household income at the start of the year, more than 1 percentage point lower than the long-term average, and several percentage points lower than what the pre-recession level was in late 2007.

The housing market continues to do well, with steady gains in sales, construction and prices. This improvement has continued to benefit our consumer real estate portfolio, where net charge-offs were down 41% from a year ago. Commercial real estate also remains strong, with vacancy rates low in apartment, industrial and retail sectors. And our CRE portfolio continued to generate net recoveries.

So, while the start of 2016 has shown that the economic recovery remains slow and uneven, we remain focused on the long-term drivers of our success, namely increasing customers, loans, deposits, and building capital. This unwavering focus on our diversified business model positions us well to benefit from future growth opportunities.

John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our first-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

We had another quarter of solid results. We have now generated quarterly earnings of more than $5 billion for 14 consecutive quarters, one of only two companies in the country to do so, demonstrating the strength of our diversified business model and our consistent risk discipline. While earnings declined from a year ago, our results in the first quarter last year included a discrete tax benefit of $359 million, or $0.07 per share, and a $100 million reserve release.

Our results this quarter included a number of noteworthy items. Our revenue benefited from the previously announced sale of our crop insurance business, resulting in a $381 million gain recorded in all other non-interest income. All other income also included $379 million of hedge ineffectiveness, primarily on our own long-term debt hedges, reflecting the impact of lower rates and foreign exchange rate fluctuations during the quarter. We would expect the hedge ineffectiveness to be neutral to our results over the life of the hedge relationship, but the impact in every quarter will vary.

We had $124 million of other than temporary impairment, OTTI, in our debt and equity securities related to oil and gas in the first quarter. The deterioration in the oil and gas portfolio drove the $200 million credit reserve build in the quarter also. I will get into more detail on oil and gas later in the call.

Expenses included $752 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching, as well as annual equity awards to retirement-eligible team members. Our first-quarter results also included the GE Capital acquisitions we completed during the quarter. On page 4, we show the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted, including increases in revenue; pre-tax, pre-provision profit; loans; and deposits.

Turning to page 5, let me highlight a few balance sheet trends. Investment securities declined $12.7 billion from fourth quarter, as we paused most of our purchase activity due to the volatility in the bond market. We had $5 billion of gross purchases during the first quarter compared with last year's average of $26 billion per quarter.

Long-term debt increased $28.4 billion, with $23.8 billion of issuances, including $11 billion raised in advance of closing the GE Capital acquisitions. We also assumed $3.6 billion of debt from previous GE Capital securitizations. Short-term investments and Fed funds sold increased $30.4 billion, reflecting growth in deposits, long-term debt, and our disciplined approach in managing liquidity in investment securities during the quarter.

Turning to the income statement overview on page 6, revenue increased $609 million from the fourth quarter, with growth in both net interest and non-interest income. I will highlight the drivers of this growth throughout the call.

As shown on page 7, we had continued strong loan growth through the first quarter, up 10% from a year ago, and 3% from the fourth quarter. Commercial loans grew $31.6 billion from the fourth quarter, including $24.9 billion from the GE Capital acquisitions and broad-based organic growth.

Consumer loans declined $923 million from the fourth quarter, as growth in first mortgage loans, auto, and securities-based lending and student lending was more than offset by reductions in junior lien mortgage and seasonal declines in credit card. Our total average loan yield increased 8 basis points from the fourth quarter, reflecting the GE Capital acquisitions, as well as the benefit of floating-rate loan repricing.

We added a total of $30.8 billion of loans and leases from the GE Capital acquisitions. The benefit of our strong balance sheet and industry expertise enabled us to add these high-quality businesses, including talented new team members and valuable customer relationships. This is our largest acquisition since 2008. The integration is on track, and we continue to expect it will be modestly accretive in 2016.

We completed the GE Rail Car Services acquisition on January 1, which included $918 million of loans and interest-earning leases, and $3.2 billion of operating leases reported in other assets. Most of the revenue from this business is reflected in non-interest income as lease income.

On March 1 we acquired the North American-based portion of GE Capital's C&I loans and leases, which included $24 billion of loans and interest-earning leases, and $2.7 billion of operating leases. The remaining $2 billion of assets is expected to close in the second half of the year. The loans and leases we acquired were marked to fair value under the purchase method of accounting, so there was no associated allowance added as a result of these transactions.

Slide 9 highlights our broad-based loan growth. C&I loans were up $50.5 billion or 19% from a year ago, driven by the GE Capital acquisitions and broad-based organic growth. Core 1-4 Family First mortgage loans grew $17.3 billion or 8% from a year ago, and reflected continued growth in high-quality, non-conforming mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans grew $15.8 billion or 12% from a year ago, benefiting from the second-quarter GE Capital acquisition and organic growth.

Auto loans were up $4.3 billion or 8% from last year. We've consistently grown this portfolio in the upper-single digits over the past year, reflecting the strong auto market, while we've remained disciplined in our approach to credit and pricing.

Credit card balances were up $3.1 billion or 10% from a year ago, reflecting new accounts and increases in active accounts. Other revolving credit and installment loans were up $2.7 billion or 8% from a year ago, with growth in securities-based lending, personal lines and loans, and student loans.

As highlighted on page 10, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the first quarter, up $44.6 billion or 4% from a year ago. Our average deposit cost was 10 basis points, up 1 basis point from a year ago, and up 2 basis points from the fourth quarter. This slight increase in deposit cost reflected an increase in deposit pricing for some wholesale banking customers. We continue to believe that deposit beta's will be lower during this rate cycle than they have been in past periods of rising rates, especially if the outlook for future rate increases remains uncertain.

Page 11 highlights our revenue diversification. Our revenue continued to be relatively balanced between net interest and non-interest income. We grew net interest income $79 million from fourth quarter, reflecting growth in earning assets, including the partial-quarter impact from the assets acquired from GE Capital, the benefit from higher short-term rates, and disciplined deposit pricing. These increases were partially offset by reduced income from variable sources, including periodic dividends and loan fees, and one less day in the quarter.

The net interest margin declined 2 basis points from the fourth quarter, with lower variable income. All other growth and repricing were essentially neutral to the NIM. We grew net interest income in the first quarter by 6% from a year ago, and we continue to believe that we can grow net interest income on a full-year basis in 2016 compared with 2015, even if there are no additional rate increases.

Total non-interest income increased $530 million from the fourth quarter, driven by the increase in all other non-interest income that I highlighted at the start of the call. Non-interest income also benefited from the increase in lease income related to the GE Capital acquisitions we completed in the quarter, which also included related lease depreciation expense.

The linked-quarter increase in trading gains was due to higher customer accommodation trading results across our markets' businesses. The volatile markets we experienced in the first quarter impacted our trust and investment fees, which declined $126 million from the fourth quarter. We also had lower debt and equity investment gains, down $281 million from the fourth quarter. While linked-quarter trends in deposit service charges and card fees were negatively impacted by seasonality, both of these fees grew 8% from a year ago, driven by account growth.

Mortgage banking revenue declined $62 million from the fourth quarter. Origination volume was $44 billion, down 6% from the fourth quarter due to seasonality, but purchase originations were up 13% from a year ago, reflecting a stronger housing market. Applications were up 20% from the fourth quarter, and we ended the quarter with a $39 billion application pipeline, up 34% from the fourth quarter. We expect origination volume to increase in the second quarter, reflecting normal seasonality and strength in the housing market.

Our production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgage originations was 168 basis points in the first quarter, down 15 basis points from the fourth quarter due to a higher mix of corresponding originations in the first quarter. Releases of our mortgage loan repurchase liability declined $107 million from fourth quarter, which also contributed to lower production revenue. Servicing income increased $120 million from fourth quarter from higher net MSR servicing hedge results and lower unreimbursed servicing costs.

As shown on page 14, expenses increased $429 million from fourth quarter. As I highlighted at the start of the call, the increase was primarily driven by $752 million of seasonally higher personnel expenses in the first quarter.

While we will not have the seasonally higher personnel expenses in the second quarter, there are certain expenses that will increase, including salary expense reflecting annual merit increases, which became effective late in the first quarter, and certain expenses that are typically lower in the first quarter, such as outside professional services and advertising costs, which are also expected to increase. We had $454 million of operating losses, primarily driven by litigation expense in the first quarter.

Now that the FDIC has issued their final rule, I want to update you on the expected impact of the FDIC surcharge that I mentioned on our call last quarter, which is lower than we previously expected. We currently estimate that the surcharge, along with the previously approved base rate reduction, will increase our total FDIC assessment by approximately $100 million per quarter, starting in the third quarter of 2016. Our efficiency ratio was 58.7% in the first quarter, and we currently expect to operate at the higher end of our efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full-year 2016.

Turning to our business segments starting on page 15, community banking earned $3.3 billion in the first quarter, down 7% from a year ago due to the discrete tax benefit we had in the first quarter of 2015, and up 4% from the fourth quarter. We continue to successfully grow retail bank households, and increased our primary consumer checking customers, which were up 5% from a year ago. This growth, along with increased usage in new product offerings, benefited our debit and credit card businesses.

Debit card purchase volume was $72.4 billion in the first quarter, up 9% from a year ago. And credit card purchase volume was $17.5 billion, up 13% from a year ago. Customers are increasingly using our award-winning digital offerings, with digital active customers up 6% from a year ago, including 17.7 million mobile active users, with continued double-digit growth in mobile adoption.

Wholesale banking earned $1.9 billion in the first quarter, down 3% from a year ago, and down 9% from the fourth quarter. The decline was driven by the higher provision expense in our oil and gas portfolio. Revenue grew 6% from the fourth quarter, with growth in both net interest and non-interest income. This growth was driven by the gain on the sale of our crop insurance business, and the benefit of the GE Capital acquisitions.

Investment banking declined on overall market weakness. And some of our commercial real estate-related businesses had weaker results, coming off a very strong fourth-quarter performance.

Loan growth remained strong, driven by acquisitions and broad-based organic growth, with average loans up $49.8 billion or 13% from a year ago, the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year growth. Average deposit balances declined $3.7 billion from a year ago, reflecting lower international deposits from market volatility, and the competitive rate environment.

Wealth and investment management earned $512 million in the first quarter, down 3% from a year ago, and down 14% from the fourth quarter. Year-over-year results reflected strong balance sheet growth, with net interest income up 14%, offset by the impact of weak equity market conditions on fee income. The decline in linked-quarter results was primarily driven by seasonally higher personnel costs. Balance sheet growth remained strong, with average deposits up 8% from a year ago and loans up 13%, the 11th consecutive quarter of double-digit, year-over-year loan growth, with continued growth in non-conforming mortgage loans and securities-based lending.

We have successfully completed our recruiting of financial advisors pursuant to our agreement with Credit Suisse. We were able to recruit substantially all of the advisors that we targeted. We are pleased with the success we've had with recruiting these financial advisors, and look forward to their contributions to our continued growth in wealth management.

Turning to page 18, credit results continued to benefit from our diversified portfolio, with only 38 basis points of annualized net charge-offs. Net charge-offs increased $55 million from the fourth quarter, including an increase of $87 million from our oil and gas portfolio. While our oil and gas portfolio remains under stress due to low prices and excess leverage in the industry, the rest of our loan portfolios have performed well.

Non-performing assets increased $706 million from the fourth quarter. We had $1.1 billion in higher oil and gas non-accruals, and $343 million of non-accrual loans from the GE Capital acquisitions, which was within our acquisition underwriting assumptions. These increases were partially offset by lower residential and commercial real estate non-accruals, and lower foreclosed assets.

As I mentioned earlier, we had a $200 million reserve build during the quarter, as continued improvements in our residential real estate portfolio were more than offset by higher oil and gas reserves. Since first-quarter 2015, we have released $1.8 billion of allowance that was allocated to our residential real estate portfolios, while providing $1.4 billion of additional allowance allocated to our oil and gas portfolio, demonstrating the advantage of our diversified loan portfolio. The total allowance now stands at $12.7 billion.

Slide 19 highlights the characteristics of our oil and gas portfolio, which is less than 2% of total loans outstanding. We had $17.8 billion of oil and gas loans outstanding at the end of the first quarter, up $474 million from the fourth quarter, including $236 million in loans acquired from GE Capital. The remaining increase was driven by utilization of existing lines, primarily in the E&P sector. The composition of our portfolio has remained relatively stable, with 55% of our outstandings to the E&P sector, 21% to midstream, and 24% to service companies.

Approximately 7%, or $1.2 billion, of our outstandings are to investment-grade companies based on public ratings. However, there are other factors that are important to consider when assessing the quality of these loans.

Our loans are primarily to middle-market companies that we know well and have worked closely with across cycles. Of the approximately 100 bankruptcies that have occurred in the industry since the start of 2015, only 11 of our borrowers have filed during that time. Our outstandings also included $819 million of second lien and $374 million of mezzanine loans.

Our total oil and gas loan exposure, which includes unfunded commitments and loans outstanding, was down $1.3 billion or 3% from the fourth quarter, with declines across all three sectors. This decline reflected reductions to existing credit facilities, in part from spring redeterminations and net charge-offs. Approximately 34% of our unfunded commitments were to investment-grade companies, as their line utilization is generally lower. In addition to our exposure to oil and gas in our loan portfolio, we also had a total of $2.4 billion in our securities portfolio.

Slide 20 highlights the credit performance of our oil and gas portfolio as we work through this cycle. The sector's performance has been driven by a number of factors that cumulatively have impacted loan quality. In addition to low oil and gas prices, cash flows and collateral values have been impacted by a reduced production, runoff of hedges, and limited additional cost levers. Reduced access to capital markets has also impacted borrowers' financial condition.

As a result of these factors, we had $204 million of net charge-offs in the first quarter. There were no losses from the midstream sector during the quarter.

Non-accrual loans were $1.9 billion. We reviewed our loan portfolio on a loan-by-loan basis, and placed loans on non-accrual status when the full and timely collection of contractual interest or principal becomes uncertain, and loans are written down to net realizable value when appropriate. Approximately 90% of the non-accruals were current on interest and principal.

Payments received on these loans are applied to reducing principal, which decreases future losses. Substantially all of our non-accrual loans are senior secured.

Given the conditions in the industry, criticized loans, which include non-accrual loans, increased to 57% of the portfolio, reflecting continued downward credit migration. This migration reflects changes in the borrowers' financial condition.

Reflecting the downward credit migration, our allocated allowance for the oil and gas portfolio increased $504 million to $1.7 billion. This portion of the allowance was 9.3% of total oil and gas loans outstanding. But as I've noted before, the entire $12.7 billion allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio.

Turning to slide 21, in addition to building allowance for our oil and gas portfolio, we continue to focus on other areas where the trends in the oil and gas industry may impact performance as we manage through this cycle. For example, we have assessed regions of the country, and have been monitoring 15 regions in eight states where greater than 3% of employment is directly tied to oil production. And are also monitoring performance in Houston and Alaska, neither of which have 3% of employment directly tied to oil production.

We are tracking changes in outstandings, utilization, delinquency rates, FICO scores and LTV migration across our consumer portfolios in these regions. And having outperformed the rest of our portfolio for the past several years, consumer delinquencies in oil-dependent regions have increased and are roughly in line with the performance in non-oil-concentrated communities.

We currently anticipate further deterioration. And while we remain committed to serving our customers, we have tightened our underwriting standards across our consumer portfolios in oil-dependent regions.

We are also actively monitoring commercial real estate exposure on a loan-by-loan basis in geographies highly correlated to the oil and gas industry. Our CRE and energy management teams are working closely together, and coordinating monitoring activities. Our total exposure is manageable, and these loans are generally structured with significant cash equity and various other credit enhancements.

In summary, we are actively monitoring the impact from the disruption in the oil and gas industry in all areas of our Business, and we're working closely with all impacted customers. We've increased the size of our work-out team, and the senior members of our credit team are devoting significant time to monitoring our exposures.

We've started the spring redeterminations, and are decreasing borrowing bases. We are proactively reviewing credit agreements, and modifying credit terms and commitment amounts accordingly. While the level of losses we have in our oil and gas portfolio will continue to be impacted by the volatility and stress in the industry, and it will take time to move through this part of the cycle, the experience of managing through many cycles will continue to be beneficial to our overall performance.

Turning to page 22, our capital levels remain strong, with our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio fully phased in at 10.6% in the first quarter, well above the regulatory minimum end buffers and our internal buffer. Our strong capital generation positioned us to deploy capital for the assets acquired from GE, while continuing to return capital to our shareholders.

We issued 35.5 million common shares in the first quarter, reflecting seasonally higher employee benefit plan activity. But we still reduced our common shares outstanding by 16.2 million shares through share repurchases of 51.7 million. Our net pay-out ratio was 60% in the first quarter.

In summary, our first-quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model, as we continue to produce strong financial results in an environment that included some near-term headwinds. Our consistent focus on executing on our vision continued to benefit our fundamental drivers of long-term growth, including adding customers, loans and deposits, while maintaining our strong capital position. We look forward to providing you more details on the strength of our business model, while highlighting the quality of our team, at our Investor Day on May 24.

John and I will now answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from the line of Ken Usdin from Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Thanks, good morning, guys, how are you? On the reserving and energy question, thanks for the color, John. It seems like you've had a little bit more of the acceleration that we've seen so far out of those who have reported, as far as the actual losses and the reserve build as well.

How do we get the understanding from here of the kind of pace of potential reserve additions? And then underneath that, are we effectively at the point where many benefits from lingering consumer reserve have moved past? Thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: On the second part of your question, it is tough to say. We are analyzing the reserve every quarter. And to the extent that there is continued improvement in consumer real estate in particular, it is certainly possible that produces incremental benefit that absorbs some of what is happening on the oil and gas side. That has been true for a while and it may continue to be true for a while.

Housing has been strong and that doesn't feel likely to reverse course right now. But again, we'll only know at the end of the quarter.

With respect to the pace or the trend of incremental reserving throughout the year, we are constantly reassessing borrower quality. We're doing a semi-annual borrowing base redetermination on E&P loans. We are in the middle of the spring redetermination period right now.

Call it 20%, 25% have been completed so we'll have the rest of that information. That's name by name, capital structure by capital structure. That will continue to inform things.

We have definitely taken steps, for example, categorized loans as non-performing, even if we haven't completed their spring redetermination. But my sense is there's more information there.

This is going to go on for a while. We're in the $40 context today. We were in the $30s for a while.

Some of these capital structures need to be restructured; that will take some time. My assumption is that we're going to be talking about this all year. I don't know that we will continue to reserve at this pace all year because we feel great about our reserve at the end of the first quarter and it reflects everything that we know.

But I would be hesitant to tell you that this was the big quarter, or this was the quarter. Things will unfold as they are going to unfold depending on what happens with prices, both spot and forward, and the pace of restructurings of services and E&P companies.

JOHN STUMPF: Ken, I'd just like to remind you, I mentioned that residential real estate losses were down 41% year over year. And I think that sometimes goes a bit unnoticed. When we went into the downturn, we had over $100 billion of pick and pay loans and over $100 billion of home equity loans. And those were the two toughest residential portfolios.

Today those portfolios are less than half of what we started with and the performance is really, really good. So there is a lot of momentum on that side that has happened over the last few years but especially in the last year or two.

KEN USDIN: That's a fair point, John, thanks for that. And one follow-up on the redetermination and the structuring. John, how far ahead can you get a redetermination?

I get your point that we are only 25% through the spring, but have you already been able to get ahead of that in terms of anticipation? Or you can only make those adjustments when we get there?

Also, with the price back up do we go into spring redetermination using a 40-hour plus starting point? Or do you still end up being much more punitive in terms of how you discount and how you redetermine?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think the price deck for this cycle, the front month is more in the mid $30s context and it is a curve that you are using, not just the spot price. We're probably 20% lower across our price deck curve in the spring versus where we were six months ago. And believe me, that's not the only item that impacts the outcome. It's what's been going on with incremental exploration, what are the reserves in terms of quantity and a variety of other things.

In terms of getting in front of it, as I said, we are categorizing loans as non-performing. We are recognizing loss. These loss determinations, the $200 million we have taken, that is our own credit folks determining that there is something to be done. It's not as the result of a final resolution or a workout or the completion of a bankruptcy plan.

And we can do that even before we've completed a redetermination. From an impact to Wells Fargo point of view, we are always trying to stay out in front of it.

KEN USDIN: Thanks for all that, appreciate it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You bet. It's probably the last oil and gas question we'll get. (laughter)

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, I will switch it up. In terms of net interest income, John, how much have you benefited from the December hike in the first quarter? Have all the variable loans repriced? And will there be additional pull-through benefit from that December hike into the second quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Our estimation is that we've gotten the full benefit of the December rate hike. The benefit on the asset side, the cost on the liability side. We talked about the impact on deposits which has been negligible. I think that is in the run rate at this point.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then a question for John Stumpf, what is the market like, John, for additional portfolio purchases? That's part one.

Part two is in terms of broader M&A. Because of your size and favored-nation status, you are the preferred name for news reporters and others that speculate on M&A for big financial companies. Since a lot's changed around the environment the last few years, can you remind us your strategy around M&A? How it is different than when you were smaller and how Dodd-Frank and Too Big To Fail might affect your view on acquisitions going forward?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. As you probably know, and those are know as well, 97% of the revenue we produce is from US-based customers, consumers, small businessmen and women, middle-market large customers. While we love our international business, it is mostly in support of our US-based businesses.

We have leadership positions in most of the businesses in which we do. We don't set out to be number one just to be number one, we work really hard. And if we do really, we provide great products and services and great value, and we grow because of that.

There's a couple areas where we are sub-optimized that we are working hard to grow. One of those, I think the most attractive area would be the area that David Carroll runs in wealth investment management. You've heard me say a number of times where we have 11% of the deposits or so in the country and just a fraction of that in terms of wealth assets here. Even though we have a powerful, wonderful group of leaders and advisers across the geography, we could still do a lot more business, a lot of our customers who call us their bank who have their wealth away.

So we are working hard organically. That business has been growing double-digits. If there was an opportunity to add something in that area that would make sense, terrific. If there's not, that is also terrific.

On the consumer side, we have leadership in terms of distribution of our online activity, of our checking activity, our debit activity. But not our credit card activity even though we have grown that significantly internally. Over 43% of our customers who have their primary account here have a credit card but that is an area that would be opportunistic.

We've been doing a great job organically. If they would be some opportunities along the line that would make sense, we would surely consider that.

I would think of it this way, John. I would think of it that we have all that we need right now. If something became available that we thought would be a bolt-on that would help us in those areas specifically, but other areas generally, sure we'd look at that. Our focus right now, our best opportunity to grow long-term shareholder value here -- value creation -- is doing more of what we are doing, just doing it better.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR & Company.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & COMPANY: Thank you very much. A lot of clients, a lot of questions that I have been getting is that, yes, energy -- a lot of people might be reserved good for energy but the second or third derivative of energy was a lot of the growth of this economy over the last year or two. Since energy is starting to struggle, that the economy is going into recession.

I know you've heard of it, but what are you seeing on the second and third derivatives on the credit book? Are you seeing any real deterioration in CRE markets in some of these areas like Texas where probably energy has hit them the hardest?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: As I mentioned in the prepared remarks, in the consumer portfolios all of them were going MSA by MSA in comparing the performance of our borrowers in the areas that are highly levered to energy. The greater than 3% employment is one measure that we used but we've also included Houston, for example, to your point about Texas being hard hit even though it doesn't qualify with the 3% employment trigger.

What we've discovered is those areas have been performing better than average for a long time. No surprise, because that is where all the growth has been coming from, and they are starting to look more average. So whether it's measures of delinquency, in some cases measures of LTV based on what is changing in asset values, they look a little bit more average.

It doesn't feel like it's a -- at least at this point -- that it's another shoe to drop in the short term. But as you expect, less employment, loans will perform differently.

In commercial real estate, where we have a big presence, we've recently done a deep dive in Texas in particular. Office vacancies are somewhat higher in the Houston area, no surprise. I think about 20%, including sublease space, multi-family, is a little bit weaker.

We are looking at that first and foremost, frankly, with respect to what it means to our risks, to our loan portfolio and feel fine about what our exposures are there. But those are things that those regions are going to have to grapple with. When it comes to growth rates or people who have more concentrated exposures, then that probably is the first second-order outcome that people are going to have to look out for.

More broadly speaking, I think we still feel we are in a 2% environment. There are obvious pockets of strength around the country but when you move out of oil and gas, we are in the same low growth, better consumer, strong employment environment that we've been operating in for couple of years. Not enough to make it feel like rates are going to move as a result of it, but not enough to feel like we are stalling either.

JOHN STUMPF: Paul, if I can give you an anecdotal. I lived in Texas for six years in the mid to late 1990s, so 20 years ago. There was a period of time there where there was volatility in the oil and gas space and there was some challenges.

I've been back -- I was just in Houston last week -- and I've been back a number of times in the last year, and things do feel different 20 years later. It is a much more diverse economy with Texas generally but Houston specifically, and it feels different this time around. Downturns are always hard, volatile markets always have an impact. But this feels different this time because of what the state has done to diversify their economy.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. My first question is actually a follow-up to John's question. My conversations with investors have often paired well, to be frank, with either large credit card companies or there is clearly the rumor for Wells potentially buying a large investment bank which you formally denied.

As we think about what you were saying, John, about looking at bolt-on opportunities, should we think about the deal size as sizes that are manageable enough that the real stop here is Wells Fargo not moving up a SIFI surcharge? As we think about the opportunity for non-organic growth, should we think about the hard stop in terms of size being that you would like to keep your SIFI surcharge where it is today?

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, here's how I'd think about it. I'd think about Wells Fargo as an organic growth Company. I've been here almost 35 years and I've probably been involved in -- if there is 250 acquisitions we have done with all different companies as we've come to the modern Wells Fargo, I have probably been involved in half of those because it happened during my career time. They are hard to do.

There is a lot of work in those things and we now have a Company that is the best Company I've ever worked for. The strongest brand, the best people, the furthest reach, the deepest relationships, the long-enduring customer.

We are very, very careful buyers. I see us as a lot of opportunity to grow, as I said, organically. If something -- and what we've done in the last four or five years have been largely bolt-on, I would say GE was a little bigger bolt-on.

Those are the kind of opportunistic things that make sense for our team, for our customers and ultimately for our shareholders. After all, this is your money, our investors' money, that we are the stewards of. It would be out of character for us to do something that would have a high degree of risk and a low degree of shareholder reward on it. That's just not who we are.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Thank you, John, that was very clear. My second question is looking to capital return. Since you've been CCAR participants, it seems like your GAAP earnings volatility is the least among your large peers. As we look forward, obviously you can't tell us about this year's CCAR submission, but as you look forward, how are you feeling about potentially continuing to push on that 30% implicit dividend ceiling?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's hard to comment on that during the middle of a CCAR cycle but I admire you for asking. (laughter)

ERIKA NAJARIAN: I tried. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I want to delve into a couple of potential earnings levers going forward. The first one would be as we think about the liquidity that you've built since you chose not to reinvest as much in the securities book, how are you thinking about that pool of funds going forward? There's not really any signs that rates are going to rise materially as we think about market rates. We are obviously off the bottom but what is your approach to managing that liquidity from here?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It will be informed week by week, quarter by quarter as we assess the likelihood of increases in both short and consequently long-term rates. We won't sit idly on continued increases and cash forever. We are going to have to put some of it to work.

We are very cautious about what it means entering at these levels in terms of capital impact in the future. If a subsequent rate does occur, that is obviously a big issue for us and we'd like to be smart about our entry points.

If we're going to hover in the 170s, just to pick a number, on the 10-year and with mortgage rates where they are, then there will be some amount of redeployment. We will probably talk about it a little bit more at Investor Day.

But it was really the abrupt market volatility that happened after the first of the year that caused us to say let's take a pause here and figure out where this is going to settle out. It happens to have settled out not much above the low points, at least again, on the 10-year, from January, early February. But that is an earnings lever, when and if we redeploy.

MATT O'CONNOR: Separately on the expenses, talk about is there any kind of change or even tweak on the approach to expense management, given weaker revenues and some of the ongoing pressures and energy likely lingering?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: There is a continuous drum beat and a high level of vigilance around how we spend all of our business's usual types of dollars. We are constantly trying to find levers and ways to be more efficient, to streamline, to make things consistent. We've provided some examples of that in the past in certain areas.

At the same time, we've talked about the investment that we are making in technology, the investments that we're making in product capability, the investments that we're making in risk management and compliance and being a better firm. Those are going to be elevated for some time and they have been for some time.

We are still comfortable in our 55% to 59% range which is where we've guided. I don't need to remind you but that is a very attractive level for a firm of our size. We think we are pretty lean overall but it's because we take this seriously day in and day out, looking for ways to be efficient.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thank you, good morning. Of your borrowers who drew on their oil and gas lines this quarter, was there any notable deterioration in their credit profile? I was just trying to understand the extent to which heightened degrees of financial stress is a factor leading your borrowers to draw down their lines. Although you mentioned that your current reserve reflects everything that you currently know today, I was wondering how you are thinking about the probability that more and more of your unfunded exposure will eventually become funded as we move deeper into the credit cycle?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, that's a good question and of course we absolutely have to make estimates about what we think the exposure at default would be for any borrower who's got a remaining unfunded commitment. That is how the process works. In the quarter there were some of these, what you might characterize as defensive draws, that we've observed, not that many of them.

You can see the increase in the total outstandings in oil and gas rose by about $400 million and about half of that was from, frankly, leases that we picked up from GE that have a credit mark in them, incidentally. It didn't really amount to that much but it is a phenomenon we have seen, that we've read about. It isn't having that big of an impact today but we do think that we are capturing that risk as we assess what the appropriate size is of our allowance for both funded and unfunded commitments in this space.

BILL CARCACHE: So when a previously unfunded energy loan commitment becomes funded, how does that transition from unfunded to funded impact your allowance? I think generally the reserve rate on unfunded commitments is lower than it is on funded commitments, but I was trying to understand the reserving dynamics there of shifting from one bucket to the other.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: In the calculation of the allowance and the migration of credit that leads up to what we would consider a borrower relationship to be non-performing or what status we are marketing it, we are imagining on a credit-by-credit basis what the exposure at default would be, meaning that it could be greater than the currently outstanding amount. That is a part of the loan-by-loan process analysis-by-analysis that we do when re-rating loans every quarter and building up for the allowance. There are some estimation of what today is currently unfunded will become funded in the future.

BILL CARCACHE: Okay, thank you. If I can ask a final follow-up, can you discuss whether the methodology underlying your energy reserve is based more on the ability of borrowers to repay their loans through cash flow generation? Or is it more reliant on collateral coverage based on reserves in the ground? There are some reports suggesting that regulators are less happy with collateral coverage and I was wondering if you could speak specifically to the approach that Wells Fargo has taken?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It is a combination of both and they are highly correlated for E&P companies, in particular. It is their sources of repayment, both principal and interest in full and on time. And we are taking into account there our projections of their cash flows and we are taking into account our projections of the value of collateral that we might have to liquidate in order to get paid back, or they might have to liquidate in order to pay us back.

BILL CARCACHE: Understood, thank you so much for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Kevin Barker with Piper Jaffray.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning, thanks for taking my questions. I want to switch gears here and look at your auto exposure. You're obviously one of the largest auto lenders in the country and have grown that portfolio by roughly 30% over the last three years. Given what we've seen in the industry and some deterioration in the sub-prime portfolios, could you help us gain an understanding of what your expectations are through the rest of this year and into 2017, given the state of the auto industry and how hot it has been over the last couple of years?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. I think we've been pretty public with the fact that we are going to hold our ground with respect to what we think are quality loan terms and borrower profile. We've actually seen our share slip a little bit as the overall size of the auto finance market has kept pace with the sale of autos, new cars in particular, that has been at a record level now for a few years. We were number one and I think we are number two right now. We are bidding on buying the loans that we like at terms that we think are a good risk reward and we are passing on those that we don't.

Some of the things that feel a little bit different right now, seasonally obviously we're in a better place in Q1 than Q4 because those loans behave that way. Collections and losses are lower in the first quarter than they are in the fourth quarter. Things are a little bit elevated first quarter to first quarter but we are still, from a risk-adjusted basis, well within the bands to which we underwrite each level of credit risk in autos that we buy.

Where we've always had our eye on the elevated level of used car auction prices, the Manheim Index in particular is evidence that we point to, to get a sense for whether loss given default is going to be worse in the future than it is today or in the recent past. That index has been down, I think 3% linked-quarter, 2% year over year. So all things being equal, we would expect severity to be a little bit worse when repossessions occur.

Having said that, we are still not in a bad place. We've allowed our market-leading position to slip a little bit, let other people buy the loans that don't make sense for us.

It is still a great business for us, it has been for a long time. We work very closely with dealers, we have a big floor plan business, we have a big commercial banking business with the dealership community. We are in this for the long haul.

One more thing we've observed is because the ABS market has been under pressure, some of the probably most aggressive players in the sub-prime space have a little bit of a funding challenge, I think, in this environment. That may soften things up a little bit. Those are my current observations.

KEVIN BARKER: So to follow-up on that, are you seeing better risk-adjusted returns in sub-prime auto versus prime auto right now? And are you growing the sub-prime auto portfolio at a faster rate?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: No, we've held the line. Using our own approach to what a sub-prime borrower and sub-prime deal is, we've limited ourselves to about 10% of our originations which has amounted to about 10% of our outstandings that we'd consider to be sub-prime. There's often an opportunity to grow that if we wanted to; we've chosen not to.

We like the risk return that we get in where we choose to participate in that space. It has performed very well; it's priced for the risk. Frankly, it doesn't compete directly with some of the specialty finance companies that are in that space. They tend to be a little bit deeper and they're running a different business.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay, thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, guys. First, a quick follow-up on Ken's question at the outset. I was curious how much of the increased oil and gas reserving or provision this quarter can be attributed to the shared national credit exam?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I would say very little. The exam came and went and I think it worked out fine. There weren't a lot of disagreements on how we rate loans.

And also the guidance around leverage levels, et cetera, was introduced and that didn't have much of an impact either. These are our folks using consistent methodology, making determinations on when loans should be non-performing, when we should take loss, et cetera.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, that's very helpful, thanks. The other question was I wonder if you could talk a bit more about how the GE Capital business integrations are going and how you are feeling currently about the potential for cross-selling or revenue synergies. Also wondering if you can quantify the impact we may see in the second quarter from a full run rate of expenses?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I like the first part of the question better. There is a big opportunity. This is early stages. This is important and a big integration, so it will take a full year to get where we need to go and to transition all of the services away from GE and over to Wells Fargo and get things running. I'm happy to say that the early reports are that we are doing great with customers and team members.

I think we imagine that there is a real opportunity with these customers. These are businesses where GE has been an absolute leader and they have done that with credit. Now we've got that credit capability and that credit willingness and the perfect business model for that. But we also have all of the other wholesale banking products and services, wealth management services, et cetera, to bring to bear on this client group.

It will take a while to work with each relationship and find out what they are doing that might be done at Wells Fargo in addition to their credit. But my sense is that we will get graded option over time and that is part of what makes it such a high-value opportunity for Wells Fargo.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning. A couple more questions on energy and then one on expenses. On energy, what percentage of that $1.2 billion in second lien exposure that you provided is non-performing? Do you have that?

JOHN STUMPF: Let's see, $113 million of the combined second lien and mezzanine today is categorized as non- accrual.

JOHN PANCARI: All right. What is your energy criticized ratio as of March 31? I know last quarter it was 38% approximately.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It is 57% now.

JOHN PANCARI: five-seven?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Five-seven.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And that reflects the environment that we are in and that reflects what's going on with the stress of the borrowers. That migration is what leads us to provide more reserve.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. Through the 25% of the spring redeterminations that you completed, what's been the average reduction in borrowing base that you have seen?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I would start by saying that 50%, 60% have actually had a reduction in the borrowing base. A quarter had no change in the borrowing base. And the balance actually had an increase in the borrowing base because of more reserves that were included in the borrowing base. Without getting too specific on the amount of the reserve for people who had a reduction, it was relatively significant and, frankly, reflected the curve that we are using today versus where we would have been a quarter ago.

JOHN PANCARI: Got it. Lastly, on the expense side, could you give us a little more color on why the incentive comp increased as much as it did this quarter, particularly on the backdrop of some of the revenue headwinds?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. It's not really incentive comp so much. Think about FICA resetting in the first quarter, contributions to our 4O1(k) happen in the first quarter. For people who are retirement eligible, there's lots of people at Wells Fargo who get an annual equity incentive as part of their pay.

For most people it vests over a few years and the impact bleeds in over the vesting period. If you are already retirement eligible, it all hits in the quarter that it's granted because it's immediately vested and that is why the first quarter has that extra impact. It's not so much about -- commissions and incentive are a piece of it, but it reflects the actual business activity that's happening.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. A couple of questions. One, and I will get the energy one out of the way first. I think you mentioned 25% of your loans went through the redetermination process in the quarter, is that right?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That is just where we happen to be to date for the spring redetermination. The rest of them are underway. It's a borrower-by-borrower analysis.

BETSY GRASECK: As of the ones that finished during the quarter, how much incremental reserve was required? Is that what drove the reserve up?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: What drives the reserve up is our categorization of the loan, generally speaking, as non-accrual or non-performing, meaning that we think there is a chance that we won't get full and timely repayment of every dollar of principal and interest. That can certainly come about in connection with the redetermination but it can come about for other reasons as well, in terms of our review of the company's overall performance, the value of their collateral, what their prospects are. It's not really a linear -- you can't really draw a line between the redetermination specifically and the change in reserves.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, it could have some impact but not -- (multiple speakers)

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It would definitely have an impact. If we reduce somebody's availability and if they were drawn above their availability and we actually had a moment of reckoning where they have to write a check, that will accelerate that analysis because they will have something that they have to do right then and there. There aren't that many instances of that.

BETSY GRASECK: It's just that as we go through the rest of the 75% of the redetermination for this spring, that could drive some more expense and reserve requirements.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It could. We capture a lot of that in our general assessment and our risk rating before having the actual results of the redetermination, but it certainly could.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then a question on recent balance sheet. You brought down Fed funds a bit, is that right?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We are $30 billion higher in cash and cash equivalents at the end of the quarter because we were less active in the bond market.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. That was mostly because of your view on rates and where you wanted to reinvest?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: So a 25bps increase in rates today -- are you in a more asset-sensitive position now because of that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think that's right, it could be true.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Any sizing?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: No, we are more asset-sensitive as a result. We also have more long-term debt that came under in the quarter. There is a handful of things going on at the same time but at the margin we are probably a little bit more asset-sensitive.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. On the redeployment into securities, I know you might want to have a higher rate to redeploy into, but is there a point where you say I want it to but it has been 1.7% for five, six, seven, eight months, whatever it is, I'm going to start to be redeploy some of my cash into longer-duration paper. Can you give us a sense as to how you think about that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That is the discussion that we are having regularly in our ALCO meetings with the Board, et cetera. My sense is that in this low rate environment we probably not go as far out in terms of duration so that we were taking less capital risk, even though the dollar-for-dollar return would be a little bit lower. It is the trade-off between forgone earnings, capital sensitivity and a handful of other things that we are having to assess. And we're doing it with our best estimate of where we think rates are going and what happens if they don't go there.

The long and short of it is, I don't think that we're going to continue to build cash balances like we did in the first quarter. We are reassessing every day to make a determination on at what entry point and at what point in the curve we are interested in putting on more duration risk.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, got it, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hey. How much did the GE acquisitions add to EPS this quarter and what do you expect it to add for the rest of the year?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We are not breaking out what it added during the quarter and what we are saying is we think it will be modestly accretive for the rest of the year. Really it's about what it costs to transition people, technology, premises, et cetera throughout the remaining of the year.

We will update that as we move along and we have got more information about how those costs are actually coming in and being spent. But I will tell you that the average asset yield for those assets reflects the same kind of loan mix that we have in wholesale banking in general. And the expectation once they are fully integrated and we've finished our process is that they will carry the same type of efficiency ratio as the average wholesale lending business.

JOHN STUMPF: Actually, Mike, in the first quarter it was a little bit -- there's a couple moving parts here. We actually, if you will, pre-funded the liability side, meaning that we raised debt to fund this. And that was on the books at the start of the quarter and most of the loans only came on March 1. There's a lot of stuff going on in the first quarter.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: But there's one month worth of, really, revenue, if you will.

MIKE MAYO: So three months of funding, one month of revenues, so you will see the full benefit in the second quarter. I was wondering if you could size that a little bit more?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We're talking about $30 billion-ish worth of assets and the same type of loan yields that we have on average in wholesale which gets you to a revenue number. What we are not specifically breaking out is what the expense impact is, until we understand what the full integration expenses are. But you'll see $300 million, $350 million per quarter of NII from the loans and leases themselves.

MIKE MAYO: How much of that did you have in the first quarter, the $300 million, $350 million?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: As John said, we had one month of the revenue side of it. We had not quite three months worth of the funding costs because we weren't fully funded for those three months. But more than one month's worth of funding cost, how about that?

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Then separately, John, did I hear you correctly? You said benefits of falling oil prices offset the costs. I think you said that at the start of the call.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. Since we are still a net importer of energy, what is interesting, Mike, is that much of those savings at the consumer level had been saved, if you will. They've not yet been spent. So not all the savings at pump. What consumers have done -- and not exclusively -- but they're saving more of that what's happening at the pump as opposed to spending it.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. How do you see that? In other words, when oil prices go down, the stock market declines, bank stock fell off. And you are saying the market is wrong with that. What are you seeing in your business that you think maybe the market has wrong in how they think about oil prices?

JOHN STUMPF: I have long stopped trying to figure out the market and why stocks generally seem to move in concert with commodity prices, especially oil prices. But be that as it may, the consumer -- much of this economy, 60%, 70% is consumer-based in retail. And the consumers have never been in better shape.

I mentioned in my comments just the debt service requirements is 15% of their earnings. Wages are starting to go up a little bit and we are seeing savings rates go up. These are some of the strongest savings rates we have seen in some time. I don't know if that is a statement about confidence or whatever, but consumers are benefiting from putting -- they're filling their tank at $1-something a gallon or $2 a gallon versus $3 or $4 and not all of it has been spent.

MIKE MAYO: The last question, if you can give a sneak preview of the investor conference. What do you hope to achieve at the investor conference? And do you think you will have a Director show up again at it?

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Mike, for reminding everybody of that. Steve Sanger, a lead Director, showed up last time. Obviously we invite our Directors and this will give me a chance to invite all of you. It's on the 24th of next month; it's a Tuesday. We have an exciting day to share with you.

We will get fairly granular about how we think about distribution, how we think about our businesses. It will give us a chance to showcase next generation leaders in the Company. So we are looking forward to it. We also will think about guard rails around our three bag metrics we talk about: ROA, ROE and efficiency ratio. We might talk about that. It is a bunch of things.

Also, everybody talks about FIN tax and clearly there is a good reason for that. I think our Company specifically and our industry generally have been innovators for a whole long time. If we weren't, we would have stage coaches on the freeway right now. (laughter) And we will talk a little bit about that.

MIKE MAYO: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks very much. There's been some recent media attention to the build-out you've been doing in some of your advisory and capital markets' capacities. And I'm wondering how you view that now in light of, of course, the broader marketplace for those services which may be under some pressure. And then also the fact that your exposure specifically to the energy industry within those business lines was a bit higher than peers. Is that changing your interest in investment in those areas?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Not really. The pattern has been the same since the merger of Wells and Wachovia, to make sure that we have got the right level of capability for capital raising and advisory activity and hedging and risk management activity for our corporate and commercial customers and other customers of Wells Fargo who need it. We think our risks are well sized; we think our capabilities are well sized.

There's always -- as you point out -- there are things to add here and there. But from a return point of view, from an ability to service our customers point of view, we like the trajectory we have taken. That's why it's so easy to respond pretty quickly when people speculate that we might be thinking about adding an investment bank to our mix or something. That's not what we need.

What we need is what we have today and more great people like it to serve more customers. But we are not thinking much differently about it.

Our results, frankly, we think were pretty good in the first quarter. As you say, we've been a leader in capital raising and advisory work for the energy industry for a while. There will be plenty more need for that as the industry repairs itself and being in a position to provide that is actually good for us.

We've got industry-leading positions in a handful of other industries as well, energy is just one of them. But like others, it is a cyclical business and while there is less capital raising going on there right now, there is more going on in other spaces and a lot of advisory work to do. So it fits together very nicely with our wholesale bank.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Is your intent to continue to add personnel into business lines?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think so. As I say, some industries come and go with respect to their capital needs and advisory needs, so we want to make sure that we have got the right people in position to do the right thing. We have become an employer of choice for lots of those activities. Wells Fargo is a very nice place to work.

We've got a great customer franchise. Who wouldn't want to work here in those businesses compared to some of the places that they might be coming from. We are always adding good people.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning. John, it kind of got lost in the hoopla yesterday about the living will, but there was Reuters news item that says Wells Fargo has become significantly more important to the health of the global financial system in the past few years, says a report by the Office of Financial Research. It strikes me with what came out in the resolution letters yesterday that maybe being too important to the global financial system may not be an entirely good thing. I'm wondering if you feel at this point that your growth or lines of business, your plans for those, might be impacted by these findings?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. Nancy, we went and looked at that report after that wacky headline hit the tape. It reported the same thing it reported a year ago, which is that we are number 17 among GSIBs, in the lowest risk category among globally systemically important banks. There is no basis for that story.

We are a big bank, we are globally systemically important and we are used to being measured. But we ended up toward the bottom of that list, so that was a funny conclusion that was drawn.

With respect to the feedback we got in the living will, there were some actionable things that we're going to get right on. But there is nothing about size, about complexity, about the nature of our business model, about our capital, about our liquidity. Really, it was much more around proper governance and maturation of the process, et cetera, which are things that are addressable. Frankly, I don't think we are being criticized by our regulators for the types of things that work their way into the financial press.

JOHN STUMPF: But surely we are disappointed in the result and all hands on deck here. We value the feedback we got from the Fed and the FDIC and we are committed to have a great submission later this year.

Nancy, one thing I'd like to share for a few minutes, even though our Company has grown significantly organically, principally organically, over the last seven or eight years, we have continued to simplify our business. We shed businesses quietly that either didn't have scale for us or provided or had a risk-reward relationship that was not consistent.

Let me just check off a few, I was thinking while John was talking. We are no longer in the wholesale mortgage business. We are not in the joint venture business. We are not in the reverse mortgage business.

We are not in the mortgage consolidation business. We have FHA overlays, so we are not as deep in that business as we had been in the past. We just sold our RCIS insurance business.

The direct deposit advance business is no longer here. We are not in the government student lending business, not a lot are. We used to have a Wells Fargo financial business that it's very different today.

So yes, we've grown in deposits. We've grown in our corporate loans at all and wealth management and all those other kind of things that we are involved in. But a much simpler Company, say, in many respects.

NANCY BUSH: If I may ask, you've opened up the living will issue. If I may ask if there are any of this feedback you got yesterday that you feel is related to residual issues that are left over from the Wachovia deal. I will say, as an analyst, it was no great secret in the industry that they were not the best on the reporting side. Are there any tasks left undone that were related to that merger that may have played into your feedback yesterday?

JOHN STUMPF: No, we own this and we're going to get this right.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. If I could ask a totally unrelated question, home-equity lines of credit seem to be coming back into favor, both at the banks and among consumers. Can you speak to that business? You have always been important in it. Is it growing now and how do you feel about it?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Because of the starting point that Wells Fargo has had, the numbers have really only been going in one direction, which is down, down, down. The product that we have today where we do sell it, is an amortizing product right out of the gate. So it is very different than it was in the old days where it was more incremental leverage that, frankly, didn't come down until it might hit an amortization point in the future.

We certainly offer that amortizing product to our customers but I don't think you will see it make a difference in our reported consumer real estate assets. Really, on our balance sheet it is more about prime jumbo and nonconforming by balance types of loans to prime borrowers.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your final question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. John, I've done a little bit of the math when you look at the cost of the liabilities on the GE and then the delay in the assets. It looks like from a net NII standpoint you pick up close to $200 million as you move into next quarter just from the balance sheet side. Just trying to piece it together best I could.

Was there any timing effect on the expenses? So as you came in and brought the operations on board, did you have a pretty full run rate on the expense side versus next quarter? That is my real question, is there any also leverage in a sense that the expenses were already place for this quarter going into next quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Right, the big expenses that's related are people expenses. The bulk of the people joined on March 1, in the last month of the quarter. There are some people in the rail business that joined at the beginning of the year. Another meaningful expense will be depreciation expense on the lease assets that we are picking up and that begins when the assets are in place.

Importantly, one of the reasons that we are describing this as modestly accretive in the year, is there is a whole lot of integration expense that needs to occur, including what we are paying for transition services that we are still getting from GE that will shift over to Wells Fargo at some point in the future, or at different points in the future. And then there is technology work to do. There is some loan file work to do, some paperwork to do.

There's a lot of things that it takes to make all of those assets Wells Fargo assets in the regulated environment that we are operating in. And we will pay incremental dollars in the near-term to do that. I'd be hesitant to offer you up a run rate from March that reflects what Q2 or the rest of the year is going to look like.

MARTY MOSBY: Would you be, on the expense side, isolating those as integration costs so we can know, not the total, but just as integration like you would do with any other kind of merger? And when we look at the seasonal uptick that we have in those employee-related expenses, typically you don't see a net benefit as it goes down because there's other expenses that offset that. But would you expect in the core expenses to see somewhat of a roll-down, given how high the seasonal expenses were this first quarter? Just two things on that side.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I expect that we'll be between 55% and 59% in our efficiency ratio for the rest of the year, on the high side of that. That would capture the change in seasonal expenses. It's a good point that not all that seasonal comp expense disappears and the whole net benefit doesn't come back.

We call out in our deck that there are some other things that are seasonally depressed in the first quarter that pick up in the second quarter. Not as big but that are seasonal in that way.

We will see how material it is, but if it becomes appropriate to provide clarity on the GE transition-related expenses, we might consider calling that out. But we haven't begun to yet because we are still developing those expenses. We are still coming into -- we're at the early stage of execution on some of the technology-oriented things that I mentioned and some other chunky early expenses that will start to run off after a bit.

MARTY MOSBY: John, lastly trying to climb into your head a little bit, as you were looking at the first quarter and you had the gain from selling the crop insurance business and rates were going down and you had so much market disruption, were you thinking, since I have this gain over here, I don't really feel comfortable putting my liquidity to work because of what is going on in the market. That gives me some breathing room to see where things fall and then start reinvesting in the second quarter, recreating the income that you gave up in the first quarter.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Investing in relatively risk-free assets doesn't produce that much P&L in the quarter that we invest. It really wasn't much of a trade-off in the first quarter between the gain that reflects this business, that we agreed to sell a few quarters ago, that closed this quarter.

It's really that the threshold issues on reinvestment are more around our capital sensitivity because we are going to be living with the valuation consequences of buying duration at a low-yield entry point. That really is more where the trade-off occurred. Thinking about the whole-year impact on interest income but also our OCI sensitivity if rates ultimately back up.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you all for joining us. Also, I want to say thank you to our 268,000 team members for serving our customers and producing $5.5 billion of quarterly earnings. It is just a wonderful result on their behalf.

One more shout out all of you, please join us on the 24th, Tuesday, May 24, in San Francisco for our Investor Day. Thank you much. Bye, bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for joining and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | houst : Houston | ustx : Texas | namz : North America | uss : Southern U.S.
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160415ec4e001e1
  


 HD
 Q4  2015 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
14,175 words
   PD
15 January 2016
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©016 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf; and our CFO, John Shrewsberry, will discuss fourth quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at Wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, and happy New Year. Thank you for joining us today. Our strong performance in 2015 reflected the benefit of our diversified business model, and our focus on the real economy. Our contribution to the real economy in 2015 was broad-based, and included originating $213 billion in residential mortgage loans, $31 billion of auto loans, almost in $19 billion in new loan commitments to our small business customers who primarily have less than $20 million in annual revenue, $34 billion of middle market loans, and $29 billion of commercial real estate loans.

We are active in facilitating the payments that drive economic activity across the country, with over $280 billion of debit card purchase volume, $70 billion of consumer credit card purchase volume, and $25 billion of commercial card spend volume in 2015. We also contribute to the communities we serve in many other ways that are not directly reflected in our financial results, but are just as important to our success. For example, we've had the nation's number one United Way campaign for six consecutive years.

Let me highlight a few of our other accomplishments during the past year. We generated earnings of $23 billion and earnings per share of $4.15. We grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profit. Our financial strength and competitive position have enabled us to capture opportunities for loan growth organically and through acquisitions, with average loans up $51 billion from a year ago, a 6% increase.

Our deposit franchise once again, generated strong customer and balance growth with average deposits up $80 billion or 7% from a year ago, and we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.6%. Our credit results continued to be very strong, with our net charge-off rate declining to 33 basis points for the year. However, since we did not have any reserve release in the second half of the year, our provision expense increased $1 billion compared with a year ago.

Our capital levels increased, even as we returned more capital to shareholders, our fifth consecutive year of increased returns. We returned $12.6 billion to our shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases in 2015.

Turning to the economic environment, while parts of the global economy have continued to experience stress, and the markets have reacted negatively in the early weeks of 2016, domestic economic conditions remain generally favorable. As you know, Wells Fargo is a US-centric company, and the strength and diversity of the US economy benefited our results in 2015. The economy continues to advance with strong job creation, including 70 consecutive months of gains in private payrolls, the longest run ever recorded.

While falling energy prices have hurt certain sectors of the US economy, most consumers and many businesses are benefiting from lower power costs, which results in more discretionary cash that can be used for other purposes. Auto vehicle sales were the best ever in 2015, and Wells Fargo originated a record number of auto loans during the year. If gas prices continue to remain low, 2016 should be another strong year for the auto market.

The housing market also continued its steady improvement, with price appreciation of 6% helping homeowners build equity, and improving the credit quality of our consumer real estate portfolio where net charge-offs were down 44% from a year ago. While December housing data is not yet available, 2015 appears to be the best year for home sales and housing starts since 2007.

Inventories of homes for sale remain historically low, providing a tailwind for building activity into 2016. Commercial real estate appreciation has been even stronger than consumer real estate, and vacancy rates for nearly all property types continue to decline. For apartments, vacancy rates are at historic lows, which should benefit both construction activity and pricing in 2016.

Finally, the building blocks of our long-term growth, increasing our customer base, deepening relationships, and growing loans and deposits continue to be the foundation of our success. I am excited about opportunities to continue to build on these growth drivers in the year ahead, as our team members remain focused on satisfying all of our customer's financial needs.

John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

We had another quarter of solid results. While our fourth-quarter earnings were the same as a year ago, the fourth quarter of 2014 had the benefit of a credit reserve release, and the gain from the sale of our government guaranteed student loan portfolio, our results this quarter demonstrated momentum across a variety of key business drivers. Compared with a year ago, we continued to have strong loan and deposit growth throughout our diversified commercial and consumer businesses.

We grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profit. We had positive operating leverage as our expenses declined. Credit quality remained strong, with net charge-offs of 36 basis points of average loans, and we continued to have strong liquidity and capital levels.

Now let me highlight these key drivers in more detail. On page 3, we show the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted, including growing revenue, pretax pre-provision profit, loans, deposits, and earnings per share. These results are even more impressive when you consider some of the headwinds we faced in 2015, while we continued to invest in our business. For example, loan loss reserve releases declined from $1.6 billion in 2014 to $450 million in 2015.

The sustained low rate environment and our disciplined redeployment of our strong deposit growth reduced our margin by 12 basis points. We continued to invest in risk management related activities, and these expenses were up 12% compared with 2014. We strengthened our balance sheet with increased liquidity and capital levels.

Turning to page 4, we grew earning assets 3% from third quarter with loans, short-term investments and investment securities all increasing. Our funding sources increased with continued deposit growth and increased long-term debt and short-term borrowings. Long-term debt increased $14.3 billion with $17.8 billion of issuances, including debt related to funding the previously announced GE Capital acquisitions.

The debt we issued during the quarter had a weighted average maturity of about eight years, at a cost of approximately three-month LIBOR plus 70 basis points. However, $10.5 billion of these issuances have a shorter maturity and become eligible for prepayment during the first half of 2016. By beginning to pre-fund the GE Capital acquisitions, we were able to maintain our strong liquidity position and our healthy level of dry powder to fund prospective balance sheet growth, while retaining the flexibility to pre-pay a significant portion of the debt should we determine it is no longer needed.

Turning to the income statement overview on page 5, revenue declined $289 million from third quarter, as growth in net interest income was offset by lower non-interest income primarily due to the higher level of equity investment gains in the third quarter. As shown on page 6, we had continued strong broad-based loan growth in the fourth quarter. We've now achieved year-over-year loan growth for 18 consecutive quarters.

Our core loan portfolio grew by $62.8 billion or 8% from a year ago, and was up $15.4 billion from the third quarter. Commercial loans grew $9.3 billion, and consumer loans grew $6.1 billion from the third quarter. We did not acquire any loan portfolios in the fourth quarter, so the linked quarter growth was all organic.

The GE Capital transactions that we announced last quarter will start to be reflected in our first-quarter results. The GE Railcar Services transaction with $4.1 billion of loans and leases closed on January 1, making us the largest railcar operating lessor in North America.

We anticipate the North American-based portion, about 90% of the approximately $31 billion of assets we expect to acquire from GE Capital, to close late in the first quarter, with the remainder expected to close in the second quarter. We're looking forward to having many talented and experienced people from these businesses join our team. Page 20 in the appendix has additional updates on these transactions.

On page 7, we highlight the diversity of our loan growth. C&I loans were up $28.1 billion or 10% from a year ago. The growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit growth in commercial real estate, asset-backed finance, corporate banking, equipment finance, structured real estate, and government and institutional banking.

Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $15.9 billion or 8% from a year ago, and reflected continued growth in high quality nonconforming mortgage loans. Commercial real estate loans grew $13.6 billion or 10% from a year ago, and included the second quarter GE Capital acquisition in organic growth. Auto loans were up $4.2 billion or 80% from last year. We continued to benefit from a strong auto market, while we remained disciplined in our approach to credit and pricing.

Other revolving credit and installment loans were up $3.3 billion or 9% from a year ago, with growth in securities-based lending, personal lines and loans, and student loans. Credit card balances were up $2.9 billion or 9% from a year ago, benefiting from new account growth, and strong growth in active accounts as we experienced better activation rates on new accounts, and more active users among our existing customers.

As highlighted on page 8, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the fourth quarter, up $67 billion or 6% from a year ago. Our average deposit cost was 8 basis points, down 1 basis point from a year ago, and stable with third quarter. We've stated that we believe deposit [betas] will be lower at least initially during this rate cycle and -- lower than they have been in past periods of rising rates. Indications since the rate move in December support this.

However, we continue to monitor the market to ensure we remain competitive for our customers, while maintaining our disciplined relationship-based pricing strategy. This relationship focus has resulted in strong primary customer growth, with the primary consumer checking customers up 5.6% from a year ago, and our primary small business and business banking checking customers up 4.8% Primary customers are over twice as profitable as non-primary customers.

Page 9 highlights Wells Fargo's revenue diversification, and the balance between spread and fee income. Over the past year as we benefited from balance sheet growth, we've been able to grow net interest income by 4% while noninterest income has been relatively stable compared with a year ago. As a result, net interest income generated just over half of our revenue in the fourth quarter.

We grew net interest income $408 million from a year ago, even as the net interest margin declined 12 basis points. The $131 million increase in net interest income from third quarter reflected growth in earning assets, and higher income from variable sources including periodic dividends, loan recoveries and fees. Net interest income also benefited modestly from the increase in interest rates late in the quarter. These benefits were partially offset by reduced income from seasonally lower balances of mortgages held-for-sale, and increased interest expense from higher debt balances.

The net interest margin declined 4 basis points from the third quarter. Income from variable sources improved the margin by 2 basis points, but was offset by customer-driven deposit growth which reduce the margin by 3 basis points, with a minimal impact on net interest income. All other repricing growth and [mix] reduced the margin by another 3 basis points, driven largely by increased debt balances including the funding related to the GE Capital transactions that I mentioned earlier on the call.

We demonstrated our ability to grow net interest income which was up 4% from a year ago through balance sheet growth, even in the challenging rate environment during 2015. On a full-year basis, we believe we can increase net interest income in 2016 compared with 2015, in part due to the December rate increase, and also from anticipated balance sheet growth. If there are additional rate increases during 2016, we would expect our net interest income growth for 2016 to be higher than the 4% growth rate we achieved in 2015.

Total noninterest income declined $420 million from third quarter, primarily driven by lower equity gains. Gains from equity investments were $423 million in the fourth quarter, which were in line with the quarterly average over the past two years. Equity gains declined 6% in full year 2015, compared with 2014.

And considering the current market conditions in our pipeline, we would expect continued declines in 2016. The volatile markets we've had so far this year could also impact our results in capital markets related businesses, including investment banking and trading, and may also affect the asset-based valuations and transaction volumes in our market-driven businesses including retail, brokerage, asset management and trust.

We had linked quarter growth in a number of our businesses including investment banking, card fees, commercial real estate brokerage and mortgage banking. Mortgage banking revenue increased $71 million from third quarter. Origination volume of $47 billion was down 15% from third quarter, reflecting the expected seasonal slowdown in the purchase market, but was up 7% from a year ago benefiting from a stronger housing market. We ended the quarter with a $29 billion application pipeline, down 15% from third quarter, but up 12% from a year ago.

Our production margin on residential held-for-sale mortgage originations was 183 basis points in the fourth quarter, down from 188 basis points in the third quarter. Mortgage origination revenue in the fourth quarter benefited from $128 million repurchase reserve release, as we resolved certain exposures and revised liability assumptions. Higher mortgage origination revenue also reflected stronger multi-family mortgage activity in the fourth quarter.

Other income declined $214 million from third quarter, driven by the impact of higher period end interest rates on our debt hedging results, and the sale of Warranty Solutions last quarter which benefited third quarter income. There are also a few linked quarter changes in some fee categories that were not driven by business activity.

Merchant processing fees as reported declined $182 million linked quarter. These fees are now reported in other income as a result of an accounting change which was P&L neutral. The increase in gains from trading activities this quarter was due to higher deferred compensation gains, which are offset in employee benefits, and are also P&L neutral.

As shown on page 12, expenses were stable with the third quarter, and we remain focused on expense management. There are a few items to highlight that impacted the linked quarter trend in some specific categories. The increase in employee benefits expense reflected $319 million of higher deferred comp expense, which was primarily offset in trading revenue.

Operating losses were down $191 million from third quarter from lower litigation accruals, while foreclosed asset expense declined $89 million due to commercial real estate recoveries. Also third-quarter expenses included a $126 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation.

A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth quarter. Equipment expense was up $181 million, primarily due to annual software license renewals. Outside professional services increased $164 million, which included higher project-related spending. Advertising expenses were also elevated up $49 million. While these typically higher fourth-quarter expenses should be lower next quarter, as usual, we will have seasonally higher personnel expenses in the first quarter, reflecting incentive compensation and employee benefits expense. Our efficiency ratio was 57.8% for the full year 2015, and we currently expect to operate at the higher end of our efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year 2016.

Turning to our business segments, starting on page 13, community banking earned $3.3 billion in the fourth quarter, down 1% from a year ago, and down 7% from third quarter. We continue to grow the number of retail bank households we serve, and we're focused on building lifelong relationships with our customers by providing them with exceptional customer service. In fact, we were ranked number one in customer satisfaction in the national bank category according to the 2015 American Customer Satisfaction Index.

We are growing our credit and debit card businesses through new customer growth and increased usage among existing customers. Debit card purchase volume was $73 billion in the fourth quarter, up 8% from a year ago, and credit card purchase volume was $18.9 billion, up 12% from a year ago. Our credit card penetration of retail banking households increased to 43.4% in the fourth quarter, up from 41.5% a year ago. We received the highest ranking in Corporate Insight assessment of credit card issuer rewards redemption options and just this week, we launched a new Propel American Express card with no annual fee.

Our customers are also increasingly using our digital offerings, with active online customers up 7%, and active mobile customers up 14% from a year ago. To better support our customers as they grow their companies, we've moved business banking and merchant payment services, which were previously included within community banking to wholesale banking. For comparative purposes, prior periods segment results have been revised to reflect this realignment.

Wholesale banking earned $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter, stable from a year ago and up 9% from third quarter. The linked quarter growth reflected higher net interest and noninterest income. The increase in fee income was driven by investment banking, and gains from the sale of equity fund investments driven by Volker, as well as commercial real estate related businesses such as Eastdil Secured, our commercial real estate brokerage and advisory business, Multifamily Capital, and structured real estate.

Revenue also benefited from continued balance sheet growth, with average loans up 13% from a year ago, the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. Average deposits grew 6% from a year ago. We remain disciplined in our deposit pricing for our wholesale customers, and we are focused on relationship-based pricing for both deposits and loans.

Wealth and investment management earned $595 million in the fourth quarter, up 15% from a year ago, and down 2% from third quarter. Growth from a year ago was driven by a positive operating leverage, with expenses down 2%, and revenue up 1%.

Revenue reflected strong balance sheet growth, with net interest income up 15% from a year ago. Average deposits grew 7% from a year ago, and average loans grew 15%, the 10th consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth. Loan growth was broad-based, with strong client demand across a number of product offerings, including high-quality nonconforming mortgage loans, commercial loans, and securities-based lending.

Retail brokerage managed account assets were up 3% from third quarter, and down 1% from a year ago. The decline from a year ago reflected lower market valuations which were partially offset by positive flows.

Turning to page 16, credit quality remains strong, demonstrating the benefit of our diversified portfolio. Our net charge-off rate was 36 basis points of average loans. Net charge-offs increased $128 million from third quarter, reflecting $90 million of higher losses in our oil and gas portfolio, which totaled $118 million in the fourth quarter, and seasonally higher consumer losses. The performance of our consumer real estate portfolios which are 36% of our loans outstanding continue to benefit from the improving housing market.

Nonperforming assets have declined for 13 consecutive quarters, and were down $497 million from third quarter, driven by improvements in our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios, and a $342 million reduction in foreclosed assets. Oil and gas non-accruals were $843 million, up $277 million from third quarter. However, as of year end, over 90% of our nonaccrual oil and gas loans were current on interest payments.

We didn't have a reserve release or build in the fourth quarter, as the improvement in our residential real estate portfolios was offset by higher commercial reserves, reflecting the impact from our oil and gas portfolio. Total loans in our oil and gas portfolio were down 6% from a year ago, and are now less than 2% of total loans outstanding. We continue to work closely with our customers and are monitoring market conditions, and we have reset borrowing base determinations twice since energy prices started to decline in late 2014. However, as we've mentioned in the past, it takes time for losses to emerge, and at current price levels, we would expect to have a higher oil and gas losses in 2016.

We've considered the challenges within the energy sector in our allowance process throughout 2015, and approximately $1.2 billion of the allowance was allocated to our oil and gas portfolio. It's important to note that the entire allowance is available to absorb credit losses inherent in the total loan portfolio. We've also consider the impact of lower energy prices on our debt and equity securities portfolio, and had approximately $130 million of OTTI-related write-downs in our energy-related holdings in the quarter.

Turning to page 17, our capital levels remained strong, with our estimated Common Equity Tier I ratio fully phased in at 10.7% in the fourth quarter, well above the regulatory minimum and buffers in our internal -- and buffers -- regulatory and minimum in buffers, and our internal buffer. Our strong capital generation positioned us well for the acquisitions we announced in 2015, and for returning more capital to shareholders. We returned $3.2 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter through common stock dividends and net share repurchases, and our net payout ratio was 59%.

In summary, our fourth-quarter and full-year results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model, with strong growth in loans and deposits and consistent earnings. We continued to invest in our businesses, grew capital and liquidity, and maintained a strong risk culture. We are excited about the opportunities ahead, and expect our customer base to grow both organically and through acquisitions, including from the customers and platforms we are acquiring from GE Capital in 2016. We remain focused on satisfying our new and existing customer's financial needs.

John and I will now answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Hi, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: If we could just circle back on some of the energy comments, maybe get the exact underlying balances. You said, first on the energy loans, less than 2% of your total loan book. If you have that exact number? And then, same thing, in terms of some of the fixed income and equity exposure, just to have a sense of the gross energy risk in those three buckets?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So I would use $17 billion as outstandings for energy loans. And for securities, I would use -- call it $2.5 billion, which is the sum of AFS securities and nonmarketable securities.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just remind us on the lending side, the mix of investment grade versus non-investment grade or unrated?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. I would -- of the $17 billion -- actually the first cut I would give you is upstream, midstream services, because I think that's germane. And I'd tell you that's about one-half upstream, and one-quarter services, and one-quarter midstream. And I think for that cut, we've separated out our investment grade component. So that what we're focused on are really the -- call it the BB and down, middle market, private clients.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And I'm sorry, of the $17 billion, how much of that piece that you are focused on?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Of the -- well, we're focused on the whole thing. Half of those customers -- one-half of those balances represent E&P companies, upstream companies. One-quarter of them represent oilfield services companies, and one-quarter of them represent pipelines and storage and other midstream activity. And it excludes, what I would describe as investment grade -- diversified, the larger [cap] companies where we don't view their credit exposure as quite the same.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And is this more --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Not much of that to begin with.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just more broadly speaking, I mean, obviously is a very balanced loan portfolio, and as you mentioned, consumer-heavy if anything. But any thoughts on how much more improvement there is still to come on the consumer side? And assuming maybe the macro either holds, or just has a soft patch overall, is there still some embedded improvement that we could see, I guess, really in the real estate portfolios, on the consumer side?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, I mean, our outlook for housing in 2016 is actually pretty strong. We've got a little bit more supply coming in. You've got more household formation. You've got -- we're going to have a [4] handle on unemployment before you know it, and we've got low rates. So if that continues to be true, that's probably a continued tailwind, in terms of some of the drivers of the estimation of embedded loss on the consumer real estate side of the loan portfolio. And without putting a number on it, because you only know it when you get there, I think that's supportive.

MATT O'CONNOR: Yes. Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You bet.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Good morning. Just a follow-up on the energy question, you indicated during the prepared remarks that over 90% of the portfolio is current, and that you've reset two times. But if prices stay where they are today, you'd have higher losses in 2016. I just wanted to understand, maybe give us a sense of -- as oil price comes down here, what kind of rate of change we should be expecting, as we are building out the model in 2016 for provisions?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Can I make one correction to your set up there, which is --

BETSY GRASECK: Yes.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Over 90% of nonperforming oil and gas loans are performing.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: (Multiple speakers) All of the other ones are performing.

BETSY GRASECK: Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: In terms of rate of change, when we think about the allowance that we have today, frankly, we could imagine prices not improving from where they are today. And so, the rate of change of how loans actually move to loss, reflects a lot of things, and it's not just price. It reflects -- and we just described for Matt, the distribution of upstream, midstream services, and each of them behave differently.

We've got customers that are oil or gas heavy, depending on what their business model. It looks a little bit different, basin by basin around the country, and by method of extraction as well. So there's a lot more to what losses are going to look like in 2016 than just the spot price, or the expected near forward price of crude. Having said that, we've sensitized it such that we're sitting here at -- in the $30 area a year from now, and believe that our allowance accurately or appropriately reflects the loss content that we may have.

JOHN STUMPF: And Betsy, just to add, we have some of the most skilled people, 250 or so folks who have been in this industry a long time, have seen changes and we are big time focused on this. But as Matt just asked a few minutes ago, we also should step back, and look at the entire portfolio. And when you have 36% of your loans as John mentioned in residential real estate, a small improvements there is huge for this company. All portfolios are important, but I just want to make sure we look at this in perspective.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Absolutely. I just wanted to understand how you're thinking about that reserve, because roughly 7%, it's one of the higher ones we've heard of. So I'm expecting that you are not just using the forward curve on oil to set your reserving levels.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Oh, that's correct. We're using the idiosyncratic, customer by customer circumstances, including the things that I mentioned.

BETSY GRASECK: Right.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And their individual leverage activity, what's going on customer by customer.

BETSY GRASECK: Yes. Because, I mean, the question has been, as we -- as the oil price goes down, and then you get closer extraction costs, and your reserves go negative. How do you deal with that kind of environment? And I'm just wondering how much of that you've already priced into the reserve that you've got?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We think it's appropriate for the risk that we have embedded in the portfolio, the prices that we're living with today, and can imagine into the future. And as I've said, the sum of the circumstances of each one of our borrowers. And when you add it up, it's a little -- it would appear to be a little bit heavier than some of the others who have reported.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John Pancari, Evercore ISI.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Good morning.

JOHN PANCARI: On the energy side again, just do you have the criticized energy ratio for that portfolio? And then, separately, just getting to that sensitivity question, if we did see oil pull into the $20s and stay there, $20 to $25 range, can you give us just an idea of how, the magnitude of the increase, and the loss migration under that scenario?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. So criticized assets today, or at the end of the quarter in that portfolio are about 38% of outstandings. And it's -- there isn't a simple way to dimension what the change would be in losses, based on some other future price income. As I mentioned to Betsy, we're sensitizing our portfolio based on a continuation of very, very, very low oil prices, the context of where we are today, rather than an upward sloping curve, in addition to scenarios that include an upward sloping curve, and we're comfortable with the amount of coverage that we have today. That's how I'd think about it.

JOHN PANCARI: Yes. Okay. All right. And then separately, on the spread revenue side, you indicated that net interest income should grow -- it could exceed the 4% growth that you saw in 2015, if you get hikes. How many hikes are you assuming, and how much greater than the 4% could it be?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So we've got a one hike, two hike, three hike, and four hike scenario that we're operating with, because like you, we can't say for sure what's going to happen. We've done a -- we worked very hard to produce the type of net interest income growth that we have in a no hike environment for the last several years. So we'll see what the future holds, because it feels a little bit different every day.

But if we got three or four hikes, could we end up in mid to high single-digit percentage growth rates for net interest income? That math would pencil out. But it's going to be a function of organic loan growth, closing on our GE portfolios that we've been talking about, and then the number of hikes that come, and when they come.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. Then lastly, what would that mean in terms of the margin outlook, if you do get -- under those hike scenarios with -- (multiple speakers)

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, well, it begins to expand. It's -- another way of thinking about it is, I wouldn't expect it to begin to expand, until continued hikes begin to layer in. Particularly as we've said, while we're -- we've pre-funded a little bit of debt, so that we're in a great position to close on these assets that we're acquiring.

So that's a little bit of a margin headwind. That has to -- those loans have to hit the books, so that that burns off. And then, we need to have -- first, a 25 basis point move, while important and symbolic, doesn't really do much. Even though we've been very slow to react, or appropriately slow to react, in terms of our own deposit pricing activity, it's the subsequent ones that would have a meaningful impact on margin. And having said all that, what we're really focused on is growing dollars of net interest income, and the balance sheet structural issues, as we have rapid deposit growth, or funding activity, et cetera, have an impact on the margin, but it's about dollars for us.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. Great. Thanks, John.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi. Good morning.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Good morning.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: On the efficiency guide for full-year 2016 at the upper end of your 55% to 59% range, you noted that for the full year 2015, you were at 57.8%. And I'm wondering if you could walk us through the puts and takes, in terms of operating leverage staying flat? And also to follow up with John's question, how many interest rate hikes is that upper end of the 55% to 59% range on efficiency embed?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So in terms of puts and takes, and 2015 versus 2016, we're still in an elevated time for what I would describe as compliance risk management, technology including cyber-related spend. We're still in an elevated time of product development, and sort of offensive related spend. And so, I think that that's part of what guides us to this higher end for the time being.

One notable difference in 2016 versus 2015. I'm not sure if anybody else has focused on this in their calls, but we also have this new incremental FDIC insurance surcharge, every bank over $10 billion in assets. And that's worth $480 million pre-tax to Wells Fargo for its partial year impact in 2016. So we're all going to have something like that for the next year or two, while that works its way through. So I would think about that. And that begins I think in Q2 of 2016. And then, if it's enacted in its current form, which it's anticipated to be.

So if we have two or three moves in 2016 by the Fed, and if they happen ratably throughout the course of the year, that incremental revenue will have a beneficial impact on efficiency ratio. But it -- I don't know that it drives us below the middle of the range. So I think the range is still appropriate.

We'll probably focus more on that and the other targets that we give you in our May Investor Day. There's a little bit of time between now and then to really set the course for the next couple of years, that reflect the environment, that reflect the balance sheet structure that we have, that reflect our expense profile. But I still feel like it's appropriate to think about the higher end of the range, so the 57% to 59% for this year, unless it rates really, really begin to move, which seems hard to imagine sitting here at this moment.

JOHN STUMPF: And Erika, how we think about expenses around here is, that we're pretty tight-fisted when it comes to making sure that the expenses, the investments we do make have shareholder benefits to them. As John mentioned, defensive, offensive, we're spending a lot of money in compliance, cyber. And on the other hand, we're spending also a lot of money on items and issues, and things that create convenience for customers, mobile payments, and a whole bunch of other things. And we always try to take a long-term view. But there's a lot of discussion that takes place about managing expenses, and making sure that the investments we're making do have a long-term pay off for us.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. Thank you. And just, I heard you loud and clear, in terms of the proportion of your energy exposure relative to the consumer side. But my question on this is really on CCAR.

I'm wondering, did you get enough color back from your regulators, in terms of how oil and gas losses were stressed in the 2015 CCAR, and how that level is comparing to the base case right now that's embedded in your reserve? I think that the next question for investors is a worry that, while everybody seems appropriately -- could be appropriately reserved for actual, that there could be an exorbitant amount of stress applied to that portfolio in the 2016 CCAR?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's certainly possible. We haven't gotten those instructions for that specific scenario analysis yet. Separately, it won't surprise you that we're very transparent, spend a lot of time talking with the regulatory community about what's going on in energy. They are fully aware of how our portfolio works. But as you mentioned, at the beginning of that statement, it's important to remember that we're talking about 2% of a $920 billion loan portfolio. So they know that. We know that, and the math benefits from that.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. Thank you so much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura Securities.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES CO., LTD.: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Bill.

BILL CARCACHE: Hi. Does the decision by one of your large competitors to pass the 25 basis point increase through to their commercial depositors influence at all, how you guys view the degree to which you and others in the industry will benefit from higher rates?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it depends. I mean, our wholesale teams -- and there are -- each of the different customer segment relationship teams provides a different set of insight onto what their competitive set is doing. There are some banks who I think, are -- sounds like anyway, are being a little quicker to raise deposit rates. And in the wholesale space, there we're competing on -- we're competing on service, we're competing on product.

We're competing on a lot of things. And at the margin, there's also the impact of price for certain balances. Some of that -- some deposits are worth more than others, from a liquidity point of view. Some relationships are worth more than others. And I'd say we're very in tune with what we think we need to do to maintain relationships, and to reward customers where we have a big relationship and a lot going on.

JOHN STUMPF: We've been through this before. And we try to stay really focused, Bill, on customer and providing them great value. And I think what John is saying, and what we're all saying is, there is value to the entire relationship. There is value to the products we have, and services, and surely deposit pricing is one of those value items. But it's not a standalone item.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. And one observation that I would have -- and this is very early days in this -- is that some of the feedback I've seen are the -- that the customers who are -- who seem to be the most price-sensitive on the deposits are the customers whose deposits have the lowest liquidity value to Wells Fargo. So sometimes, it's easy to see those go.

BILL CARCACHE: Got it. Thank you. Separately, if I may, I saw your recent transaction update on slide 20, but was hoping you could give a little bit more color on client retention initiatives, and whether there are any issues there? And some of those acquired specialty finance businesses, like Vendor Finance for example, were pretty nichey. And it feels like it was really, Wells and GE, and like the CITs of the world that really played in those areas. So just curious, whether GE's exit you think increases your ability to grow share across those businesses, as we look forward from here?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. Well, we certainly hope that it does. And I'd say, that in Vendor in particular -- I think we mentioned this one we announced the deal. But as you described GE has this great business, that's close to the OEMs that helps them finance their sales to their customers.

Now from a Wells Fargo perspective, most of those OEMs are already customers of Wells Fargo in one way or another, and most of their customers are already -- or many of their customers are already customers of Wells Fargo in one way or another. So it's a way for us to really enrich the relationship, get closer to the manufacturer. And in some cases, expand a program that we may already have been a smaller player in, and in other -- in many other cases, to create a program, or to step into a program that is working well.

But I'd say overall, customer reception has been great, as our leaders have reached out and traveled around with our new GE teammates, and talked to the customers of the GE businesses. So I think there's a -- I don't think customer retention has not surfaced as an issue. It's just a question of how quickly and how well we can expand the product penetration, given all that Wells Fargo has to offer a wholesale customer in each of those instances.

BILL CARCACHE: Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hi. Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Ken.

KEN USDIN: My question is on fees, specifically if you could start on the brokerage business. Obviously, the market values are now weighing on the underlying growth, but I was wondering if you could just give us your outlook for growth in the brokerage business, which unfortunately has comped now a little negative on a year-over-year basis. But can you just kind of distinguish between market levels, impacts, and what you're seeing from a customer activity perspective as you look to 2016?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. I mean, it's made a little bit more complicated by what's going on -- in these couple of weeks, in terms of just with respect to the impact of asset-based fund or fee type arrangements. So it's hard to ballpark at the moment. But we have good, strong growth of inflows of both accounts and account assets. And if we were in a more normalized S&P environment, then we'd be talking about the continuity of call it, the single-digit percentage growth that has been working for us for the last few years.

But when you overlay this market instability, it depends, A, on what levels we end up at, because that'll influence what's -- what we're multiplying times a fee schedule. And, B, we customers do, whether customers are -- stay invested, get more invested, or back away as volatility increases. I think it's David's expectation to continue to grow the business by adding new customers, to encourage customers to stay invested, if that's appropriate for where they are in their investing life cycle, to use these as entry points for people who have more money to put to work and longer-term goals.

So it's going to come and go, move a little bit as equity markets move up and down. But I think what we're talking about in revenue terms, even with the type of pullback that we've had in the first quarter is call it, hundreds of millions of dollars worth of net income sensitivity, if we weren't to recover from here, and if we didn't have meaningful new customer -- new client growth over the course of the year, so.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Thank you for that. And then secondly, just on the mortgage business, if you could also just, ex the [MSR drive] -- which can swing big up or down, how much more retrenching do we still have of the servicing portfolio? And what's just your expectation, if it's different than just kind of the MBA, Fannie, Freddie for what you think the mortgage market does in the year ahead?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So I think the MBA is calling for a $1.5 trillion or $1.6 trillion, down to $1.4 trillion mortgage market in 2016 versus 2015, and our folks seem to be in sync with that.

In terms of servicing retrenching, it's -- we'll get to a more normalized level of defaulted loan workout activity over the course of the next couple of years, as that -- the full crisis era inventory works it's way off. And then, we'll find out what the stabilized run rate is for productivity, for how many people it takes to service a portfolio of our size that's behaving more normally. And so, there is incremental benefit to take out but we're not in a hurry to do it. It's more important about the loans are serviced properly, and customers are dealt with in a way that they require. But so, there's some upside there. And unreimbursed servicing costs, I'd say are -- as we look out, they start to improve quarter by quarter, over the course of the next several. So that's one benefit. But we'll see.

But in terms of the market overall, we are still -- we're very, very big in conforming with Fannie and Freddie, and there's more to do there. We think of it more as more of a purchase market as we go forward, especially if rates increase, although they're going the other way right now. And as I mentioned a little bit earlier, some of the early indicators for purchase activity look really good: more jobs, more available housing to buy, and more people moving into prime first-time home buyer and second-time homebuyer age cohorts. Those are all very supportive, and so --

JOHN STUMPF: And household formation --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And household formation is up meaningfully.

JOHN STUMPF: Meaningfully.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So that's good news.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Great. Thank you guys. Appreciate it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning.

SCOTT SIEFERS: But I think that most of my questions have been answered. But maybe back on the energy portfolio, just broadly, if you guys can speak to how your -- just how you are treating customers at a top level? You don't think there's a sense that banks are not necessarily pulling back credit the way you might if you had this kind of a correction in any other sort of asset value, so just at a top level? And then, John I think you had said in your comments about the NPAs there, I just want to make sure I heard that correctly. Is it 90% of the oil and gas NPAs are current on interest only? I just want to make sure I heard that correctly as well.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Current on interest is what I said. Yes.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So in terms of pullback and credit availability, I would expand the description to say, not just bank credit, but capital markets were actually, as you know, were quite open for energy companies very early in this. And that has gone away. My understanding is that smaller banks, regional banks, have only recently begun to really pull back from a willingness to provide credit. Maybe it's this incremental leg down to where we are on crude prices, that has people generally believing that this could be where we are for a longer time.

I wouldn't say that there is a tremendous demand for incremental credit right now. It's more about how quickly you're asking or requiring your customers to come into conformance under their borrowing base. What you're doing with their excess cash, what they're doing with their CapEx program. And I'd say, we're all being as appropriately tough, to make sure that we protect the interests of the bank. We're very -- we're working with each customer to help them work through this. It doesn't do us any good to accelerate an issue or two, to end up as the holder of a number of oil leases as a bank.

And so, there is -- that dictates some of the cadence. Services companies I think are different than E&P companies, because for some of them it's really not about a $5 band of oil prices, or a $10 band of oil prices. They're either in business or they're not in business. And if they're not in business, you have got to figure out how to maximize the recovery as quickly as possible, because some of their inventory which is security for the loan may be very single-purpose. And I'd say that's a little bit of a different workout. I don't know if that's helpful, but that's how we're seeing it.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Yes. No, that is. I appreciate the color. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes. Thank you very much. On the mortgage banking side, can you talk a little bit about how TRID has impacted the mortgage bank -- on the mortgage banking revenues? It looks like you guys did a pretty good quarter, despite a lot of disruptions that TRID brought to the market.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So we spent a lot of time preparing ourselves for it technology-wise, data management-wise, so that we could flip a switch, and collect the right data, and have the right disclosures, et cetera. We've not seen a meaningful impact to our results in our retail channel, or from our work with correspondents. There are probably some lower volume programs that we or others would have deemphasized, while we emphasize preparing ourselves for the new requirements in our bigger programs. So as those -- or as those have come online, et cetera, maybe we see a little bit of a snapback, but you wouldn't even notice that in the numbers. So for the most part, the impact I'd say, has been immaterial.

PAUL MILLER: And then, in the 2015 especially in the second half of the year we saw on the macro data, and I think even on your micro data, a big pick up in purchase originations. Probably the large -- the third quarter was the largest origination quarter for purchases since 2007, 2008. Do you think [TRID] interrupted that? Are you still seeing very strong demand for the purchase market, despite all this volatility?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, you have to seasonally adjust that analysis, but I think it's our take that it didn't really interrupt it.

JOHN STUMPF: It just adds a week, Paul. It really does. And it turns out to be a -- in many cases, a bit of an inconvenience to a customer. But it's what it is -- but I don't think it's really had an impact.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys. Thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Hey, John.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi. John. Two quick follow-ups on debt issuance. Just with the GE, I just wanted to make sure that I understood, is that fully funded now, or is that partially funded? Can you say how much -- how much of that is funded already?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. Through the end of the year, I'd say, it's about -- it's two-thirds.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the expectations for earnings accretion turned a little bit more positive in your update? Has anything changed there, or you've just refined your estimate from when you first did the deal?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's the latter. It's refining the estimate of the expenses that we're going to consume to properly transition all the team members, to do data work around the customers, et cetera. Although it's just important to say, the big emphasis here is on the lifetime relationship we're going to have these customers. I know that it's important to you guys to get what the first few months mean, but we're much more concerned on an orderly transition, and a nice integration, and a good feeling for both customers and team members. And that's expensive.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then, on TLAC, any update on potential TLAC issuance? I think your original estimate was up $40 billion to $60 billion. And have you done some of that already, and what will be maybe the timing or time frame over which you do the rest?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So the estimate is still the same. We did do a little bit in the fourth quarter, $6 billion to $7 billion I think in the fourth quarter of what would be TLAC eligible. This is a little bit of a subtlety, but now that the NPR is out, and while the NPR is out, there is a little ambiguity about what's eligible and what's not. And so, that will slowdown issuance during the NPR period, so that none of us issue something that turns out not to be either conforming or grandfathered. So it'll be slow here for a quarter or two probably, but it's our goal to get our full requirement, whatever it ultimately is in place with plenty of room before the actual -- the final phase-in date of 1/1/2022. So we will update folks as we go along, to let them know where we are on that journey, and what the impact is.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning, everyone.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Joe.

JOE MORFORD: John, you talked about the economy, but what's customer sentiment like lately? Are you seeing much confidence to borrow and make investments, and given the macro uncertainties? And also, while the consumer is benefiting from lower gas prices, are you seeing much willingness to spend?

JOHN STUMPF: So far, Joe, with respect to consumers, they have not spent a lot of their gas savings so far. I think there -- you'll start to spend some more -- and the thing for Wells Fargo is 97% of what we do is in the US. And virtually everything we do in the US is involved in the real economy. And there are pockets of strengths. You think of autos, you think of commercial real estate, you think of residential real estate, parts of ag, some middle market. And I don't -- I'm not going to say it's robust, but we're really happy we're all-in in the US. Let's put it that way.

JOE MORFORD: Great. And then, how did also how did the recruitment of the Credit Suisse private bankers go relative to expectations? And was there any impact from this on expenses this quarter, and what would be the magnitude and timing of the assets under management you might expect to transfer over?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So I think it's going on -- as David would describe it, as planned, in terms of number of people who have or will be joining Wells Fargo. I don't think they've actually disclosed a [hard] number on that, but it's a good outcome. And I assume it'll take one to two quarters after people join for them begin to migrate their customer accounts over to Wells Fargo. That's probably more of a second half impact.

And, frankly, with -- even with the maximum number of people, the total people that were originally referred to in that arrangement that we had with Credit Suisse, what it looks like is three, four, or five months worth of organic financial advisor recruitment. It's not a huge game-changer in terms of the numbers. It's great. We've got the exact right people for our platform. They add a lot of capability. They have a lot of great customer relationships that we are excited to have. But I would think of that more as a modest acceleration of what would have been organic activity, rather than a game-changing activity in this segment.

JOE MORFORD: Understand. Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous Research.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Hi. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Good. Good morning.

BRIAN FORAN: So I guess, there is an industrial company reporting as you're speaking, so I don't mean to hijack you, since you obviously haven't heard of it. And I don't even know if I'm pronouncing it right, Fastenal or something, but they're kind of making the statement that we're in an industrial recession. They're seeing some of their underlying customers with orders down 25%-plus year-over-year. So I wonder if you could comment, like when you just talk to that kind of industrial component of your customer base, who maybe is a more exposed to cutbacks by the energy industry and the strong dollar, do you think it's possible we actually are in an industrial recession right now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So my observation would be, for certainly for folks who are selling into the energy extraction or processing businesses, it's been a tough year, and will continue to be. And I'd be surprised if those orders were only down 25%. But I think more broadly, at least as it reveals itself in our own customer activity, people who are more reliant on exports have been -- were hit early and hit hard by how strong the dollar has become over the course of the last couple of years. And but more broadly, it's as John described, right? It's not robust. People aren't super enthusiastic.

But you've seen the growth in our commercial loan portfolios which reflects people doing business. And some -- a lot of that is us taking business from other people, but in a significant portion of those cases, that's folks borrowing money to do things, to buy things. And it doesn't feel like a manufacturing recession to me. Although, I'm sensitive to manufacturers who ship everything overseas, and who are trying to sell it in dollars, because that's a more expensive proposition.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. And you also -- as John mentioned, we are a very diversified company. We lend to all sectors of the economy, farmers, ranchers, 2% of our loans in oil and gas, commercial real estate, middle market. And so, you're going to have some companies because of what they are doing are going to be impacted more than others. And I can surely see where Fastenal, who -- it's a Midwestern company, I know that company, it's a great company -- will have some issues or would be [saying the things they're saying.] That makes sense to me, given their product mix.

BRIAN FORAN: I thought they were based in Minnesota. So I figured it was fair to ask.

JOHN STUMPF: I know them. They're great (multiple speakers).

BRIAN FORAN: And then, I guess, just stepping back on fees. I guess, one of the things that just strikes me looking at the model is, they have kind of been bouncing around $10 billion a quarter, ever since the Wachovia deal. And I guess, that speaks to some of the benefits of diversity in the business, because there have been some huge headwinds like the mortgage bubble popping and all that. Do you think we're finally at the point where, the underlying business momentum that you've clearly generated can start leading to higher reported consolidated fees? Or is there still maybe another year of headwinds with the lower equity markets and lower refi volumes and stuff like that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So the bigger categories would be deposit service charges, which are both consumer and commercial. And I'd say there's a nice trajectory there, and we've suffered -- well, not suffered -- we were impacted in a way that -- at the -- call it, in the immediate post-merger time frame where things were cut back, and then growing. And they have been growing nicely and continue to, both by adding new customers and adding new capability. So that's a strength, and something that will continue to grow.

Card fees, the big emphasis there, both debit and credit, and are moving down the path to really grow our credit card business I think will help there. In the wealth and investment management business, as we've talked about, a big portion of it will be a function of what happens with equity markets. But we're growing the customer base. We're growing assets under management, and we're -- and that may be more volatile, given where -- what's going on with the S&P, but that certainly a source of growth over any reasonable time frame. Those categories are our bread-and-butter, fundamental banking activity that we feel really good about.

At the margin, we still -- we also have as we've mentioned, this step down to a more normalized level of equity gains. That's something that has to be grown through, in your analysis, the mortgage market as we've said, even if we are doing more, if that market isn't growing much, then we'll have -- we'll be impacted one way or the other by that. So it's our goal to work to grow the aggregation of those line items in the way that you're describing. But each of them has their own character. That diversification has worked for us over the past several years as you mentioned. But there is a lot to do to grow them.

BRIAN FORAN: I could sneak in a very short one on energy, is there any material second lien exposure in the oil portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Not material. No. There is -- we have -- there is a little bit in a business that we call energy capital, but in the context of the numbers that we've been talking about, it's not material.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. Just a couple clarifications. So you have $1.2 billion of reserves on oil and gas credits, and you have $17 billion of oil and gas credits. Is that right?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Correct, outstanding.

MIKE MAYO: So you have 7% reserves against your oil and gas portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We have -- the math works out to 7% on that allocation. But I'd point out that we have a $12 billion allowance for loan losses, all of which is available for losses wherever they occur in the portfolio, but yes. Our internal allocate -- our own internal allocation of what's applied to that portfolio would get you to 7%.

MIKE MAYO: So I think you're winning on that 7% percentage. I mean, some others are at 3%, 4%, 5%. So I guess -- but I didn't get the answer to the question before, what percent of the $17 billion are -- is non-investment grade?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I would say most of it. Most of it.

MIKE MAYO: So most of the $17 billion is non-investment grade?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Correct.

MIKE MAYO: So would that 7% figure reflect that mix then of having more non-investment grade credits, or would it reflect more conservatism than peers?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: As I mentioned, everyone of these portfolios is different, based on who their customers are, what their business mix looks like, what basins, what extraction method, what their corporate leverage looks like. So it's hard to compare. I do agree that 7% is winning though, in terms of the reported numbers.

MIKE MAYO: And just to clarify what you said before, if oil stays at $30 for the next year, you still feel that the $1.2 billion of reserves on the oil and gas portfolio is sufficient? Is that correct?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Correct.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. And now let's just pull the lens back -- pull the lens back a little bit. John, you've been through many cycles. And I am just wondering, is the decline in the oil and gas sector similar to other industry specific declines that then spill over on the broader economy? In other words, what comes to my mind is 2002, TMT, there you had add Enron, WorldCom, you had a spillover effect. You had some market concerns, you had some losses. Or what other period does this seem similar to? Or is this stretching too much, this oil and gas thing, it's fine, it's going to blow over? Where do you stand?

JOHN STUMPF: Actually, Mike, it's a great question. I go back to 1985 or the early 1980s, when I ran the workout group. In fact, I got to see our Denver-based energy business up close at that time. So I -- and then we saw, of course, the one in -- there's been a couple cycles since that time. And this one is different in a couple of respects. First of all, the economy in the US is more diversified, so the communities in which energy plays a role is more diversified. Not true in every community but, and we look at that.

Secondly, companies this time around reacted much more quickly. I think in past recessions -- in past corrections, there was more hope and prayer going on, for higher prices or a rebound. And so, they reacted quickly. And I would also say this time around, the way companies finance themselves, there is more private equity and other debt that would be subordinate to the bank debt. So there has been -- there are differences.

And I'd say the final thing is, this is -- the mismatch between supply and demand at the world level is fairly narrow. So there's about 93 million barrels produced a day and about 92 consumed. So it's a very narrow mismatch, and demand seems to still be increasing. So I am not suggesting that's going to make this problem go away anytime soon. The Saudis are pumping like crazy. So are the Russians. And of course, with what happened with tight oil here in the US, but there are differences. And our people who run this portfolio for us have seen many or most of those cycles. So everyone is different.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: One thing I'd add is, all this -- certainly plenty of opportunity for a market-related contagion when one industry is suffering, and other industries are starting -- are trying to borrow. But in this instance, cheap oil is a net stimulative impact on US growth. A WorldCom fraud was not beneficial for everybody else in the US. Telecom didn't get cheaper. But fuel is getting -- has gotten cheaper, which is good for consumers, and good for other -- (multiple speakers).

JOHN STUMPF: And Mike, I'll give you one other example. I was with a large builder in the Texas market not long ago. And they were talking about the fact that some of what's happening in oil and gas in the field services is making [cement] more available and workers and so forth that are important to housing. So I'm not suggesting it happens everywhere, but it's -- everyone's different.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thank you. John, I wanted to ask you about the cross-sell ratio, something you've always prided, in the sense of being able to show improvement, kind of peaked out last year. And this year, we're actually seeing it come down a little bit. So just was wondering how those trends are looking, in the sense of being able to sell more to your products?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. So how that works is, we take total product holdings divided by total customers. And we're actually seeing the denominator grow faster now than we've seen it in some time, and first-year customers don't have an average of six products. They are more in the four range, so that has a bit of a dilutive impact on that.

And also, as you get to the higher value products, the sales cycle or solutions cycle tends to be a bit longer. So this is actually a good problem I think, in that when you're growing net new primary checking accounts by 5.6%, the goal is not necessarily a ratio. The goal is to have long-term mutually beneficial relationships with customers where we help them succeed financially. So I'm happy with where we are in that. But thank you for the question. It's a good question.

MARTY MOSBY: And then, on the net interest margin, can we just think about this -- let's forget about the funding cost and deposits, because everybody's skittish on committing to what's going to happen, given the dynamic of competition. But let's just think about earning assets, and the floating loans and short-term liquid assets that you have. With the 25 basis point rise that we saw in December, how much should we see the impact on that positive to earning asset yields, just isolating out that one piece of the equation?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it depends on the existing and changing distribution between one-month, three-month LIBOR-based loans, prime-based loans, fixed loans, LIBOR loans that we swap to fixed rate, and there's a lot that goes into it.

MARTY MOSBY: Right.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it's hard to isolate it. I'd say that, when we think back to the way that we separated our interest rate sensitive categories for illustrative purposes at the last Investor Day, we would have said that 20%-ish -- and this is both asset and liability side, so it's a different answer than what you're asking -- but that we would've gotten, call it 20% of a change flowing through, and the range was 10% to 30%. And I think we're probably at the low end of that range right now, but that's picking up both assets and liabilities.

I can tell you also that LIBOR resets seem to have occurred the way we would've expected them after the Fed moved in December. So the asset side is behaving as we expected. And it's -- a 25 basis point move is not a giant needle mover, in terms of dollars and cents for Wells Fargo. On a net basis, you're talking about -- I don't know -- $100 million to $200 million a quarter or something like that. So all things being equal, which they never are, but that's the order of magnitude.

MARTY MOSBY: And then, just lastly, was there any disruption on investment banking, from some of the things that we saw with high yield freezing up, and some of the processing there, of just being able to deliver into the market, because investment banking has been a big grower, a benefit for you all as well. So just wanted to see if there was any disruptions in the quarter that you experienced in that side?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So I wouldn't describe anything as a disruption. There is sort of two ways that on the sell side that we might be impacted. One is, are we -- how do net long credit are we in our trading businesses? And I think we managed that really, really well, and it wasn't really disruptive. And then, there's the -- are the markets open, and are we representing clients, and helping them raise money in the high yield market? And that's been harder to do, given the volatility that we've seen.

Our share is still about the same. We're between 4% and 5% of US investment banking fees. That's capital markets activity, advisory activity, et cetera, but it didn't have a big impact. We were up in the fourth quarter over the third quarter in investment banking fees overall, which you'd expect. The fourth quarter is seasonally, usually a busier time, M&A activity, et cetera. But no disruption.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kevin Barker, Piper Jaffray.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, PIPER JAFFRAY: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Kevin.

KEVIN BARKER: Good morning. You mentioned that the amount of criticized loans in your energy portfolio was 38% of outstandings. What was it last quarter? And could you also describe how many of your energy loans are either in a second lien position or subordinated position compared to first lien holders?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. So criticized oil and gas assets -- I can tell you what they -- how they changed year-over-year. They're at, call it [$6.6 billion] at the end of the quarter, up $[5.5 billion] from -- so substantially, all migrated during the course of 2015.

And in terms of second lien, it's a small number. We have a small business called Energy Capital that does some -- they're deeper in the capital stack investing, and in our clients and in their properties. And I want to say the total portfolio is in the hundreds of millions of dollars. So it's modest.

JOHN STUMPF: Think of this is a senior lender, I mean -- (multiple speakers).

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And the big E&P exposures are senior loan exposures.

KEVIN BARKER: What was the change of criticized, from third quarter to fourth quarter I meant?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I -- let me see. It was 33% at the end of the third quarter, and 38% at the end of the fourth quarter.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. And then, in regards to some of the questions earlier about ancillary effects from the decline in oil prices, could in industrial, but then for even some financial institution exposure that you had in the commercial portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So we have an ongoing analysis to look at it -- this is a related, but indirect response to that question. We have an ongoing analysis of all of the MSAs where we've got more than 5% -- well, there's two versions of it, so the 3% to 5%, and then greater 5% employment in the energy industry, and we're looking at all of our consumer and commercial exposures in those geographical areas to measure impact, and to think about how we lend money, A, what our balance sheet exposure is and, B, what our new origination exposure looks like.

And it might surprise you that places like Houston, because of their relative diversity of their overall economy are actually performing relatively stronger than some counties in -- that represent other basins in the Dakotas, in the West, et cetera. But we really haven't seen any second order big impact yet among any of them, in terms of our balance sheet exposure. And we've got -- we're on the lookout. The entire credit organization here is focused on how that might change, but it really hasn't yet.

And then, as John mentioned earlier, for most of our customers, 98% of our loans and most of our retail consumer customers and our wholesale customers, lower fuel costs mean lower transportation costs, mean lower heating costs, mean lower power costs. It's not bad for their business. They're impacted if their customers are employed in the business. They're impacted if they're selling into the business. But it's got a net stimulative effect. And so, we haven't seen a big spillover yet.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. And then, right now, your charge-off rate is running in the low to mid 30s on basis points, whereas -- (multiple speakers)

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Lowest on record at Wells Fargo, 33 basis points is as low -- we've looked in the -- (multiple speakers)

JOHN STUMPF: I've been here 34 years, I've never found it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Never been lower.

JOHN STUMPF: Never been lower.

KEVIN BARKER: Clearly, trends have been excellent for you guys over the last several years. And when we step back and look at, reserve releases have essentially stopped in the last two quarters. How -- and pre-crisis, your charge-off rate was running around 70 to 80 basis points give or take, depending on the quarter and the year. But in looking at it now, do you -- how do you look at the migration or the normalization of credit where we are now versus pre-crisis?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes. So we'll probably talk about this in some depth at our Investor Day, and there's a couple important things. And one of them is the mix of the assets on our balance sheet today, compared to where it used to be. So home equity is sort of a going away business, because we've got a portfolio that's been shrinking for a long time. It's been improving in performance, and it just is not being added for a variety of reasons on a net basis. And that's unlikely to change.

That was a big source of our absolute dollars of loss in the weighted average charge-off rate through the -- leading up to, and through the crisis. When you think about the residential real estate portfolio here, what we are adding is all high-grade -- it's prime jumbo origination. It's our -- they are very safe loans. I think we've got 4 basis points of loss, something like that coming through that portfolio. It feels very good. And while I'm sure it'll change a little bit over time, it's not going to behave like balance sheet first mortgage loans did pre-crisis, because there was just a different appetite for the types of loans that banks might hold.

So I think that's important. Also the percentage of our portfolio and card business. We're trying to grow the credit card business. We like it a lot. It's obviously got a much more volatile charge-off profile to it, but at $30 billion, $40 billion, or even $50 billion worth of assets at Wells Fargo, it's going to have -- if you are comparing us against other banks for example, that's going to have an impact. And I think those are a couple of the -- that contribution to mix is something that you need to have a sense for. And I think what you'll hear from us when we revisit this at Investor Day, is that our current expectation for our normalized through the cycle loss rate will be lower than the last time that we talked about it. But probably higher than 33 basis points, but lower than the 75 or whatever we signaled to you two years ago.

JOHN STUMPF: And Kevin, I'll make one final comment. We do -- virtually everything we do on the consumer side is prime. I mean, we have some near prime, 10% or so or less in auto. But -- and that's a bit of a difference from before. We had a Wells Fargo Financial in the past for example.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. That's helpful. Thank you for taking my questions.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: And I will now turn the conference over for any concluding remarks.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, thank you for joining us. I want to thank all of our team members who serve one in three customers across the United States, and so much appreciate all they do. Thank you for joining us, and we'll see you in 90 days, three months from now. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c42 : Labor/Personnel | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020160116ec1f00105
  


 HD
 Q3  2015 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
10,232 words
   PD
14 October 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO John Shrewsberry will discuss third-quarter results and answer your questions. This call is being recorded.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and thank you, good morning, and thanks for joining us today. We earned $5.8 billion in the third quarter as our diversified business model generated growth in revenue, loans, deposits, and net income compared with a year ago. We remain focused on meeting the financial needs of our customers and investing in businesses so we may continue to meet the evolving needs of our customers in the future.

The strength of our franchise also positioned us well for the acquisitions we have recently announced. We are excited that the transactions with GE Capital will enable us to deepen relationships and increase our presence in commercial businesses that serve the real economy. General Electric, like Wells Fargo, is one of America's great companies, and the businesses we are acquiring are industry leaders with proven business models and exceptionally talented and experienced people. We are excited to have them join the Wells Fargo team. John Shrewsberry will provide more details on the recent GE Capital announcements at the end of the call.

Let me now highlight our results this quarter compared with a year ago. We earned $1.05 in earnings per share, up 3% from a year ago. We generated $21.9 billion of revenue, up 3% with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income. We grew pretax, pre-provision profit by 6%.

We continued to have broad-based loan growth, with total loans reaching a record $903.2 billion. This is a bit larger than the size of our loan portfolio at the time of the Wachovia merger at the end of 2008. However, the quality of our current portfolio is significantly better than at the time of the merger. Our core loan portfolio increased by $73.4 billion, or 9% from a year ago, reflecting both strong organic growth and the benefit of the acquisitions we've completed over the past year.

Our deposit franchise once again generated strong customer and balanced growth, with total deposits reaching a record $1.2 trillion, up $71.6 billion or 6% from a year ago. And we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.8%. Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation, and returning capital to our shareholders remains a priority. Our dividend payout ratio is 35%, and we repurchased 52 million shares of common stock in the third quarter.

Turning to the economic environment, the global economy showed some signs of weakness in the third quarter, primarily in China and other emerging markets. This weakness impacted the financial markets, and the rising value of the US dollar has caused the trade deficit to widen. As you know, Wells Fargo is a US-centric company and the US economy, while not immune to these developments, has proven quite resilient. The low energy prices that are negatively impacting certain aspects of the economy have provided a welcome boost to consumers with many now beginning to redirect their savings into purchasing goods and services.

As an example, new auto sales were at their highest levels in a decade. Housing continued to rebound, with home sales at their highest level since 2009, and the limited supply of homes, of new homes, are driving new home construction. And while the latest jobs report was disappointing relative to expectations, the labor market continued to show steady gains, with September posting the 60th consecutive month of rising employment, something never before accomplished. And the unemployment rate is at a level that many consider to be the long-term norm.

As the US and the world economies evolve, Wells Fargo remains focused on the building blocks of our growth; increasing the number of households we serve, adding commercial relationships, deepening consumer and commercial relationships, and growing loans and deposits. This focus will benefit our long-term growth while we continue to meet our customers' financial needs and navigate the challenges of today's economy.

John Shrewsberry, our CFO, will now provide more details on our third-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John, and good morning everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Our third-quarter results demonstrated consistent financial performance and momentum across a variety of key business drivers. We continued to have strong loan growth and deposit growth across our diversified commercial and consumer businesses. We grew revenue by generating growth in net interest income and non-interest income. We produced positive operating leverage as our expenses declined. Credit quality remained strong with net charge-offs of only 31 basis points of average loans. And we operated within our targeted ranges for ROA, ROE, efficiency, and net payout ratio. Let me now highlight these key drivers in more detail.

On page 3 we show the strong year-over-year growth John highlighted including revenue, pretax, pre-provision profit, loans, deposits, net income, and EPS. And we reduced our common shares outstanding by 106.5 million shares over the past year.

Turning to page 4, we continued to benefit from the strength of our balance sheet which has positioned us well to take advantage of growth opportunities, including our recently announced acquisitions. We grew total assets by 7% from a year ago and 2% from second quarter, with growth in loans, short-term investments, and investment securities. Our funding sources increased, with continued deposit growth and increased long-term debt and short-term borrowings.

Turning to the income statement overview on page 5, revenue increased $557 million from second quarter, with growth in net interest and non-interest income. And we generated positive operating leverage as expenses declined.

As shown on page 6, we had strong broad-based loan growth in the third quarter, our 17th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. Our core loan portfolio grew by $73.4 billion, or 9% from a year ago, and was up $17.1 billion from second quarter. Commercial loans grew $9.4 billion and consumer loans grew $7.7 billion from second quarter. Our total loan portfolio is balanced between commercial and consumer loans, with commercial loans now 50% of our portfolio. Our portfolio has become more balanced as we've experienced runoff in our liquidating consumer portfolios and have grown our commercial portfolios through organic growth and acquisition.

On page 7 we highlight the diversity of our loan growth. C&I loans were up $38 billion, or 15% from a year ago. The growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit year-over-year growth in asset backed finance, corporate banking, commercial real estate, structured real estate, and government and institutional banking. Commercial real estate loans grew $12.8 billion, or 10% from a year ago, and included the second quarter GE Capital transaction and organic growth. Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $15.3 billion, or 7% from a year ago, and reflected continued growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages. Credit card balances were up $4 billion, or 14% from a year ago, benefiting from strong new account growth, more active accounts, and the Dillard's portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter of 2014. Auto loans were up $3.9 billion, or 7% from last year. We had record new originations in the third quarter, up 10% from a year ago, reflecting the strong auto market, while we remain disciplined in our approach.

As highlighted on page 8, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the third quarter, up $71.8 billion from a year ago and up $13.6 billion from second quarter. This growth was broad-based across our commercial and consumer businesses. Our average deposit cost was 8 basis points, down 2 basis points from a year ago, and stable with the second quarter. We continued to successfully grow our primary consumer checking customers, which were up 5.8% from a year ago, and our primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5%.

Page 9 highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income. Our earning asset mix results and diversified sources of interest income and the drivers of fee generation are diverse also. We had strong equity gains in the third quarter comprising 9% of our fee income, up from 5% last quarter and 7% a year ago. Our total market sensitive revenue, which includes trading and gains from debt and equity investments, increased $210 million from second quarter, but was down slightly from a year ago.

We grew net interest income $516 million, or 5% from a year ago, reflecting strong growth in loans and securities and by adding duration to the balance sheet. The $187 million increase in net interest income from second quarter reflected growth in investments and loans including the benefit from the GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction related to commercial real estate assets that settled late in the second quarter. Net interest income also reflected one additional day in the quarter, accounting for about one-third of the increase from second quarter. These benefits were partially offset by reduced income from variable sources, including purchase credit impaired loan recoveries, periodic dividends, and loan fees.

The net interest margin declined 1 basis point from the second quarter. The decline was due to customer-driven deposit growth which reduced the margin by 3 basis points, but had minimal impact to net interest income. Lower income from variable sources also reduced the margin by 3 basis points. These decreases were partially offset by balance sheet growth and repricing driven by security purchases and higher loan balances, which benefited the margin by 5 basis points.

As I've discussed previously, our view on interest rates has evolved over the past year to be more of a lower for longer expectation for both short-term and long-term rates. As a result we've been adding duration to our balance sheet. However, our balance sheet remains asset sensitive, and we're positioned to benefit from higher rates and we expect to be able to grow net interest income over the long term even if the rate environment continues to be challenging.

Total non-interest income increased $370 million from second quarter, driven by higher equity gains, other income, deposit service charges, and card fees. Gains from equity investments were up $403 million from second quarter, reflecting strong results from venture capital, private equity, and other investments. We recognized gains on more than 10 different holdings, demonstrating the diversity of our equity portfolio and our long-term commitment to this business. Non-controlling interest reduces the impact of the equity gains to our net income and increased $120 million from second quarter.

The other non-interest income category was up $406 million in the third quarter driven by the impact of lower interest rates on our long-term debt hedges. As a reminder, we're required from an accounting perspective to measure the hedge effectiveness at the end of each quarter. And while the net impact is generally expected to be zero over the life of an instrument, interest rate and currency volatility can cause this line item to vary from quarter to quarter. Other income also increased from higher income on our equity method investments as well as the gain on our sale of Warranty Solutions which happened in the third quarter.

Mortgage banking revenue declined $116 million from second quarter. Origination volume of $55 billion was down 11% from second quarter reflecting the expected seasonal slowdown in the purchase market, but was up 15% from a year ago benefiting from a stronger housing market. 66% of originations were for purchases in the third quarter, up from 54% in the second quarter. We ended the quarter with a $34 billion application pipeline, down 11% from the second quarter but up 36% from a year earlier. Based on the current rate environment, the level of our pipeline, and the seasonal slowdown in the purchase market, we currently expect originations in the fourth quarter to be lower than the third quarter.

Our production margin on residential held for sale mortgage originations was 188 basis points in the third quarter. This ratio has been refined from how it was determined in prior quarters in an effort to provide investors with better information on our residential originate and sell business. Based on our updated approach we currently expect our production margin in the fourth quarter to remain within the range of the past five quarters at 170 to 195 basis points.

As shown on page 12 expenses were down $70 million from the second quarter. The decline was primarily due to lower employee benefits from reduced deferred compensation expense which was largely offset in trading. Expenses also benefited from lower advertising expense and reduced insurance expense reflecting seasonally lower premium driven compensation costs in crop insurance. We also made a $126 million contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation which increased other non-interest expense. Operating losses were stable from the second quarter, but they remained higher than the five-quarter average as we continued to have elevated litigation accruals for various legal matters. We continued to invest in our businesses with particular focus on risk, cyber, and technology projects. These investments were partially reflected in higher outside professional services expense in the quarter.

Our efficiency ratio improved to 56.7% in the third quarter. We are focused on managing expenses, partially reflected in the 27% reduction in travel and entertainment expense from a year ago as we reduced non-customer facing travel. However, we expect to operate at the higher end of our target efficiency ratio range of 55% to 59% for the full year 2015. And until our revenue benefits from higher rates we expect to remain at the upper end of that range.

Turning to our business segments starting on page 13. Community banking earned $3.7 billion in the third quarter, up 7% from a year ago and up 10% from second quarter. One of the drivers of our long-term growth is our ability to attract new households to Wells Fargo. Year-to-date through August we've had the strongest new retail bank household growth in four years.

And during the third quarter we announced an initiative that makes the experience of opening an account easier for the millions of consumers who choose to bank with us. Our new and existing customers are increasingly using our digital offerings with active online customers up 8% and active mobile customers up 17% from a year ago. We are growing our credit and debit card businesses through new customer growth and increased usage among existing customers. Credit card purchase volume was $18 billion, up 15% from a year ago, and debit card purchase volume was $71 billion, up 8% from a year ago.

Our wealth, brokerage, and retirement segment has been renamed wealth and investment management reflecting the realignment of our asset management business from wholesale banking into wealth and investment management. We also moved our reinsurance business from wealth and investment management and our strategic auto investments from community banking into wholesale banking. These changes are a part of our regular course of business. We're always looking for ways to better align our businesses, deepen existing customer relationships, and create a best-in-class structure to benefit both our customers and our shareholders. For comparative purposes prior period segment results have been revised to reflect these changes.

Despite a challenging equity market environment, wealth and investment management earned $606 million in the third quarter, up 10% from a year ago and up 3% from the second quarter. These results reflected strong balance sheet growth and net interest income growing 18% from a year ago. Average core deposits grew 6% from a year ago and loans grew 16%, the ninth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. Loan growth was driven by an increase in high quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security-based lending.

Retail brokerage and managed account assets were flat from a year ago and down 6% from second quarter. The linked quarter decline reflected the weak equity markets. As a reminder, managed account asset fees are priced at the beginning of the quarter, so fourth-quarter fees will reflect the weaker September 30 market valuations.

Wholesale banking earned $1.8 billion in the third quarter, down 8% from a year ago and 13% from second quarter. The linked quarter decline was driven by lower non-interest income primarily as a result of lower equity investment gains and reduced sales in trading and invest banking activity reflecting market volatility.

Balance sheet growth remained strong with average loan growth of 15% from a year ago. This growth benefited from the GE Capital loan purchase related to commercial real estate assets that closed last quarter, and also reflected broad-based growth across most wholesale businesses. Average core deposits grew 12% from a year ago. Treasury management revenue continued to grow, up 9% from a year ago, driven by new sales of treasury management solutions.

Turning to page 16, credit quality remained strong in the third quarter. Our net charge-off rate was 31 basis points of average loans, up slightly from second quarter primarily from seasonally higher auto losses. Non-performing assets have declined for 12 consecutive quarters and were down $1.1 billion from second quarter. This improvement was broad-based, driven by improvements in our commercial and consumer real estate portfolios.

We did not have a reserve release in the third quarter, the first quarter with no reserve release since the first quarter of 2010. While we continue to benefit from improvements in the performance of our residential real estate portfolio, we also increased commercial reserves reflecting deterioration in the energy sector. As a reminder, only 2% of our total loans outstanding are in the oil and gas sector. And we continue to work proactively with our customers as we manage through the current industry cycle.

We've started the fall redeterminations and reserve-based energy loans are performing as expected. We believe the energy services sector will incur greater challenges in the near term as it adjusts to lower commodity prices, and this view is reflected in our reserving process. We're also monitoring all loan types and MSAs, for greater than 3% of employment is directly tied to oil production. To date while we've not experienced measurable differences in the portfolio performance between oil and non-oil communities, over time we would expect some correlated stress in communities that are dependent on oil and gas. Future allowance levels, whether they're higher or lower, will be driven by a variety of factors including loan growth, portfolio performance, and general economic conditions.

Turning to page 17. Our capital levels remain strong, with our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III fully phased in at 10.7% in the third quarter. We returned $3.2 billion to shareholders in the third quarter through dividends and net share repurchases, and our net payout ratio was 60%.

In summary, our third quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong growth in loans and deposits and revenue growth reflecting higher net interest and higher non-interest income. Our returns are among the best in the industry, with an ROA of 132 basis points and an ROE of 12.62%. Our strong liquidity and capital positions us well to serve our existing customers while growing our customer base organically and through acquisitions.

Let me conclude by highlighting the transactions we've announced over the past couple of weeks. We summarize these announcements starting on slide 20. As John mentioned earlier, operating from a position of strength allows us to make quality acquisitions that help us serve more markets and meet more of our customers' financial needs. In connection with these transactions we've maintained our long-standing disciplined due diligence process, and our strong capital position provides us with the capacity to acquire these businesses and assets. I'll start by highlighting the largest transaction which involves approximately $32 billion of assets.

Yesterday we announced an agreement to acquire GE Capital's commercial distribution finance and vendor finance businesses as well as certain corporate finance loan and lease assets. Over 600 Wells Fargo team members were involved in the evaluation and due diligence which occurred over the past few months. This agreement provides us with a unique opportunity to add relationships and earning assets in businesses where GE Capital was an unequivocal market leader and where we either have meaningful experience, or in the case of commercial distribution finance is a strong complement to our existing capabilities.

These businesses have established and deep relationships with their customers and we're excited about the opportunity to enhance these relationships with the breadth of our product offerings. These businesses are run by experienced teams with average tenures of over 20 years. We will also benefit from the acquisition of GE Capital's state-of-the-art customer facing systems that will create efficiencies. We expect this transaction to close in the first quarter of 2016 with minimal impact on our liquidity position. Over the medium to long term we plan to fund the acquisition with anticipated growth in deposits, and in the short term we will likely have to increase our borrowings to preserve our liquidity position.

Similar to the GE Capital transaction related to commercial real estate assets that closed in the second quarter, the loans and leases, roughly 90% based in the US and Canada, will be recorded at fair value inclusive of a lifetime credit loss at close. Including transition costs related to integrating these businesses, we expect this acquisition to be neutral to modestly accretive to our 2016 results.

At the end of September we also announced an agreement to acquire GE Railcar Services, which is expected to close in the first quarter of 2016. This transaction involves 77,000 railcars and just over 1,000 locomotives as well as associated operating and long-term leases that will be added to our existing First Union Rail business, making us the second largest railcar and locomotive leasing company in North America.

Similar to the GE Capital transaction that we completed earlier this year, we were able to find a partner, in this case a Berkshire Hathaway Company, to agree to acquire the assets that did not align well with our business strategy. This acquisition will add to the quality and diversification of our existing fleet and add to our capacity to meet the industry's growing demand for railcars.

Just to summarize the timing related to our GE transactions, our results this quarter include the impact from the GE Capital transaction related to commercial real estate assets that closed in the second quarter. And we expect to close in the first quarter of 2016 the GE Railcar transaction and the GE Capital transactions we announced yesterday.

John and I will now be happy to answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good afternoon everyone -- good morning, everyone. Still too early.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, Joe. Good morning.

JOE MORFORD: I guess following up first on the last comments about the GE Capital acquisitions, just I guess curious to learn a little bit more about fit with the existing platform that you have, where some of the synergies are. And then any color you may be able to share in terms of the profitability of these businesses or the relative yields. I guess I was a little surprised you're saying maybe only modest earnings accretion. Is that due to some of the expenses you're bringing on with their staff and/or the higher near-term borrowing costs?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So with respect to the first part of your question, Joe, the businesses line up well as we said. The commercial distribution finance business is an asset-based lending business that operates between OEMs on the one hand and distributors on the other. It will fit in Wells Fargo alongside what we would describe as Wells Fargo capital finance, our ABL business. The GE team has leadership and specialty in their version of ABL lending, but of course we've got a team that's been together for 20-plus years in ABL and this will complement them nicely. And as we mentioned, the technology that they use to run their business is also something that we think we can benefit from in our broader business over time.

The vendor finance business aligns well with our equipment finance business. Our equipment finance business tends to focus on the users of equipment. Their equipment finance business has big relationships with OEMs who are selling equipment. And so we think that they're very complementary when put together.

With respect to the question about 2016 accretion, we think there will be plenty of expenses in order -- people expenses, technology integration expenses, premises expenses perhaps and other things. So we're focused on doing that integration the right way. It's going to take some time. We're going to be very thoughtful about it. We're more focused on the medium- to long-term impact than what this means in 2016.

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, I've been around the acquisition game for a long time and what we typically have said in the past -- and this is probably truer with the depository, that we look for accretion by year three. It will happen sooner in this case because it's not as complex.

But we've learned that to do these things well you practice on yourself, not on your customers. You get everything done right.

And we really look at this, as John mentioned, as a long-term value add to the Company. So things that close in the first quarter, you're bound to have expenses around integration to get this really done right.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Actually, Joe, you also asked about funding. That is part of the equation here. We will be term funding components of this, so it's not as easy as absorbing existing cash. I think some of the early analyst reports have reflected that belief. So we'll be layering in some term funding in advance of the assets coming on. That will have some incremental cost, et cetera. And we're trying to maintain our liquidity buffers through and after the addition of these assets. So that makes it a little bit more complicated than some of the math that I've seen so far.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That's all really helpful. I appreciate that color.

I guess the other question was just I recognize the equity investment gains this quarter really came from a number of different investments. But any color on maybe what's a good run rate there or just maybe market sensitive revenues overall, recognizing they were down a couple hundred million this quarter.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: In both cases I would look at something like a five quarter average of equity gains on its own and then equity gains, gains on debt, and trading activities as well. I think they're probably more representative of a run rate.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Joe.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks. Please go ahead.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks for taking my questions. You talked about the expenses being elevated with legal, and last quarter there was about a $225 million increase. Is that still the same number that's kind of embedded in the overall operating expenses this quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Marty, there's going to be a run rate of what we -- about where we had -- what we had last quarter and where we are this quarter probably for a period of time. Each individual legal matter is its own thing and we certainly can't comment on litigation. But I would think of them as part of the environment that we're in, and operating losses in total are probably going to remain about where they are. If they begin to come back down, that would be great. But I wouldn't consider this to be outsized at, call it, $500 million for the quarter for total operating losses.

MARTY MOSBY: The other thing is that you look at wholesale banking, that's where you see some of the pressures that we have seen in other banks with capital markets activities. You had the reduction in the fee income but not much reduction in expenses.

You talked about compensation expenses going lower but were offset by losses. Can you break those two things out so we can get a feel for the two components in the expense line?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So I would expect the expenses that are directly related to revenue to generally -- especially over the course of a year to reflect the production of revenue. It might not be as linear from quarter to quarter as revenue moves up or down. And that's been true for some time. Where we have operating losses like a legal settlement for example, that will temporarily elevate expenses in that business unit. At the firm while they may remain elevated, they don't necessarily remain elevated in wholesale banking or in any individual segment. So I wouldn't expect for example compensation expense to cycle for the firm as a whole or for the division as a whole as a result of a one time in an operating loss.

But all told, I would say that we pay for performance in that group. Our total approach to performance-based comp seems to hold very well with the revenue sources that we have, and the operating leverage and the results of the segment make sense through the cycle or frankly for any full year.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks. And any further duration extension on the asset structure given the outlook that rates will stay lower for longer? I appreciate it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Not much. You can see we added a few billion dollars of net securities to our investment portfolio. We like where we are from an asset sensitivity standpoint today. We're going to be adding these incremental assets that we talked about in connection with the GE portfolio, some of which are leases. So you think of them as a little bit longer term and fixed rate, which will have the same impact as adding securities.

So we slowed down a little bit in adding duration in the third quarter compared to the second quarter, which I think you can see in the deck. And we still have conviction that we're probably in a lower for longer rate scenario.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: I just wanted to follow up on that last comment. You believe you're in a lower for longer rate environment. Do you think the US economy is getting better or worse, I guess? I'm hearing on the one hand, John, you're mentioning some additional confidence in some areas and on the other hand you're mentioning the global economy as being a headwind. So which is it? Is the US economy getting better or worse?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, Mike, it's a good question. We think it's getting better, but only incrementally better. So as we -- none of us know, of course, but this year the GDP in the US let's call it 2.1%, maybe 2.2%, maybe next year it's maybe 2.5%, something like that, 2.4% to 2.5%. So better but not substantially better.

You know us well, so you know that most of our business is US centric. But clearly some of our businesses that we support and do business with have an international component to them, either sales or whatever the case is. And in the rest of the world -- the biggest risk I think to the US economy is what's happening in the rest of the world. I think that's unquestionable. But better, but not hugely better.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And with respect to rates, the lower for longer applies. We think of it as at the short end and at the medium to long end of the curve. If the Fed starts moving rates in December or in the first quarter, we'll be sitting here a year from now we think with one, two or three 25 basis point moves under our belt at probably best case with respect to how far things might move.

And unless there's meaningful inflation, which isn't on anybody's radar screen right now, then it doesn't feel like that's going to have an impact on long-term rates. It feels like more of a flatter curve environment and long rates in the vicinity where they are now, unless something really different begins to emerge.

Of course the good news is if we're wrong about our forecast, we perform better. We're constructing ourselves to do well in this environment, but if we end up in a higher short-term or higher long-term rate environment than we're forecasting that's actually -- that's net good for Wells Fargo.

MIKE MAYO: With that expectation, are you taking a second look at expenses? I mean your efficiency ratio this quarter moved in a better range, but do you have a plan B to say we expect these headwinds to last for longer, therefore we're going to do something extra?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We have a -- I'd describe it as a full-time plan B which is that we're always looking at ways to be more efficient. We highlighted a couple of them over the last few quarters. We took a hard look at T&E a year ago and we're down 25% year over year. We've talked about our real estate strategy where we shrunk by 20 million square feet over the last few years and still have more to go.

There are a variety of programs like that. But most of that savings gets absorbed by areas where we're changing or improving the firm, where we're spending money on compliance, on risk management, on technology, on innovation. So I've got some conviction that we're not going to move below the higher end of our range while we're still in this lower rate environment. Because whatever savings we get by being thrifty we end up reinvesting into the programs that I mentioned.

JOHN STUMPF: Just to put an emphasis on that, Mike, expenses get a lot of discussion around here and we're keenly focused on them. Because as John mentioned you save -- and we think of it in ways of what will the customer pay for and what makes us a stronger long-term provider of services to our customers and to be a more relevant company to all our constituents. And you save in one side and you invest in the other side. Some of those investments have been fairly significant. But it's a constant drum beat around here.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Mike.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America. Please go ahead.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning. Just to follow up on Joe's question, John, could you give us a sense of what the average yield of the $32 billion in GE assets that you're putting on and what the fee income generation was for last year?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So no, because we haven't disclosed the yields on that portfolio. But I can tell you, Erika, it looks a lot like that portion of our own wholesale portfolio. And I would add, frankly, that their approach to their risk analysis of their loans looks like our risk analysis of their loans, and their pricing on those loans looks like our pricing of similar loans. So you should think of it as a component piece of what our wholesale banking outcomes look like.

And in fee generation, is the question what GE generated in fees with those loans or what --?

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Yes. Or that business that you're acquiring generated in fees.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So the revenue streams for that business are more net interest income streams rather than fee streams. There are certainly loan fees but they get amortized into yield. I can tell you that in our own analysis of this, and I'm sure in your also, as we look out over some period of time we can imagine a lot of other products and services that we will be providing to these same customers that GE wasn't in a position to offer them directly. So it's part of the long-term value creation, but there isn't a run rate of that in there today because GE was a primarily A lender rather than a full service provider of banking capabilities.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And just wanted to get some clarification on your comments earlier, because adding these assets have the same impact of extending duration on the asset side. Should we expect cash balances to stay relatively stable from the average balances of the third quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It depends on what's happening with deposit growth over the time frame that we're talking about. This is five or six months in the future. So all things being equal, maybe you could say yes. And by cash -- cash and HQLA, our high quality liquid assets, are interchangeable in some ways. So I would look at the sum of those things, not just cash, depending on how our rate view evolves and what goes on in terms of the opportunity to get more invested, et cetera.

These are risk assets, that's one sort of use of cash. Cash at the Fed or cash in treasuries are two other related uses of cash. So I don't want to over complicate it, but it's a little bit different than just a cash balance.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Just to sneak one last one in. Your results clearly demonstrate your strength on your relationships with the consumer in the corporate side. Given your balance sheet and capital strength and some difficult headlines that we are seeing from European banks, how are you thinking in terms of your medium-term strategy to increase your market share with institutional clients, given potential market share dislocation and your strength in capital, particularly in leveraged capital?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I wouldn't think of our medium-term strategy any differently than how you've seen us behave in the recent past in that area. We have great relationships with a large number of institutional clients and counterparties and there are sometimes interesting things to do, but we've got high regard for our capital and our funding and real meaningful expectations for how we get paid for using it as we work on those relationships. So we're already doing that.

From time to time something interesting will reveal itself and we'll consider it. But there's no change in strategy that is going to result in us having a different risk profile or trying to fill a major vacuum that may be being left behind by a European bank or something else over the next few years.

JOHN STUMPF: What you've liked about us in the past you'll like about us in the future regarding that.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you so much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities. Please go ahead.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks and good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, Eric.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Hi. How are you? I just want to make sure that I'm fully understanding what the key points of leverage are in the income statement as we look out into next year. Obviously it seems like the biggest contributor as a revenue driver is asset growth stemming in part from these acquisitions. But given the sort of NIM commentary and the efficiency ratio commentary, should we expect positive operating leverage into next year, or more basically zero?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, we're always striving to generate positive operating leverage, so that's a goal as we set out to plan for the coming period. In terms of what happens, it will reflect what we're primarily emphasizing which is the growth in relationships, which leads to a growth in loans and a growth in deposits, credit discipline, and further penetration on all -- in our product areas with the customers that we have. How the macro events sit on top of that with respect to where rates go, et cetera, tough to know. And we're not as focused on that or can't be as focused on that because we can't control some of those outcomes.

So we're setting ourselves up to have expense discipline. We're setting ourselves up to add relationships. We're setting ourselves up to deliver into those relationships which you see in loans, deposits, and many of our product areas. But how it lands in a given quarter is more difficult to forecast.

JOHN STUMPF: Eric, we're enjoying some of the strongest growth years we have seen in what we describe as the core building blocks of long-term shareholder value creation; relationships, loans, deposits, depths of relationships, new primary checking household growth. And as John mentioned, depending on the macro environment, not all that shows up in that value creation the next quarter. But over the long period or even interim period, that is a -- the best way we think to successfully grow and add to the things that our customers and our shareholders value.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: No, certainly. So it sounds like then it's basically top line led operating leverage stemming in part from a continued shift in mix of revenue sources. Is that fair?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we surely want the top line but we're watching the expenses where nothing goes unexamined around here and we'll see how things turn out.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And if I could just do one quick follow-up on asset quality. It sounds like from your commentary the go-forward expectation should be for provision to roughly equal NCOs. Is that right?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's tough to forecast. We've gone through five years of reserve releasing. We've been saying for a few quarters that what's going to happen subsequently is going to reflect loan growth, portfolio performance, and general economic outcomes.

Does that mean that we remain at a no release, no provision level if that's too precise to forecast? But it's true, that if we grow our portfolio and the new assets look like the assets that we already have that we'll begin providing for those, which could become more of a net outcome as we're already at a generational low in terms of charge-offs which means that credit performance can't really improve meaningfully from where we are today, it's already that good.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Thanks very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill. Please go ahead.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning.

SCOTT SIEFERS: John, I was hoping you could talk for a moment on some of the changes in the loan yields within the commercial buckets. A few of them like commercial mortgage, construction, leasing, they came under a little more pressure than I would have thought. I imagine at least to a certain extent that's due to both the financing on the GE deals, but was curious to get your color and thoughts on what might be going on there.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So I wouldn't think of that as attributable to those assets coming on. It really has more to do with the variable sources, the loan fees that sometimes accelerate that run through there, PCI recoveries or other things that are more -- that are harder to forecast and more one time. You see them changing these two -- the yields in these two dates side by side. But it's not a general change in the inherent yield, the customer yield in the portfolio.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay. All right. That makes sense. And then just one sort of nitpicky question.

Did you guys quantify anywhere the -- the size of the gain from the Warranty Solutions business? I think when you announced you had sold it for $150 million in cash, but I just wasn't sure where it had been recorded on the books.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's less than $0.01 per share. I don't think that we did put that anywhere. But you're the first person to ask it, so there you go.

SCOTT SIEFERS: All right. Okay. I think that's -- I'm all set. Thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of David Hilder with Drexel Hamilton. Please go ahead.

DAVID HILDER, ANALYST, DREXEL HAMILTON: Good morning. Thank you. I notice what appeared to be a reversal of a prior deferred comp expense and wondered what the reason for that was.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, don't think of it as a reversal. Every quarter our employee benefits expense on the one hand and our trading results on the other hand reflect the outcomes from our deferred comp approach. Our employees voluntarily defer comp and we neutralize the outcomes for them and we provide that return and we do it on a hedged basis so that our results reflect -- when equity markets go up, our trading line goes up and our employee benefits expense goes up. When equity markets move down, not just to generalize, the reverse is true.

In this quarter we had equity markets down. We had trading revenue down and it commenced we had an equal amount of employee benefits expense down. So it was really just the cyclical ebbs and flows of that program, no change in approach or reversal of anything.

DAVID HILDER: Great. Thanks very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC. Please go ahead.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys, how are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Nancy, good morning.

NANCY BUSH: Two questions for you. John, when you did the initial GE portfolio acquisition, I guess that was what, a couple of quarters ago, you said that you were going to continue to look at assets at GE and obviously you did. I guess my question is GE going to continue to be the gift that keeps on giving? Is there more there that you're looking at or is this sort of the end of the GE pot?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So you may have seen the list in the paper today of the 13 announcements that they've had since they declared that they were going to wind down GE Capital. And three of those line items are attributable to our activity; the commercial real estate, the railcar, and now the commercial businesses.

And we, just incidentally, we looked very closely at many of the other things that looked like they might have a fit for Wells Fargo, and for one reason or another they were a better fit for somebody else, either because of the asset type or the pricing scenario or something else. I think this pretty much concludes their US business. I think they've got some things to sell around the world. And because of our US-centric approach it's probably true that we're not -- we wouldn't be playing a role like the role that we played in these three on those future acquisitions.

Now having said that we've been an advisor in some these other transactions. We've been a lender to a winning bidder in some of these other transactions. There may be other things to do, but in the way that we've approached these three businesses that we're -- or these three portfolios that we're acquiring, I don't think there's more of that coming from GE Capital.

NANCY BUSH: My second question would be whether the integration of this latest large business from GE is basically going to preclude you from looking at other possible asset portfolios, et cetera, at other companies due to the funding issues?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Nancy, I'd answer it this way. Never is a really definitive word. But I'd say on the other hand, the focus right here now is to do this and do it really well. This is a lot to say grace over. We have lots of experiences in acquisitions. We're going to treat this as a merger; doing it well provides huge benefit to -- benefits to all those involved and that's job one, job two and job three right now, do this really well.

NANCY BUSH: If you guys could just clarify, are you going to be moving people? How is this physically going to work?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: These businesses are primarily headquartered in the Chicago area and the Dallas area and nothing about that is intended to change. So there may be some opportunity to -- for their people in the field to team up with our people in the field, but the bulk of the people will remain doing what they're doing right where they're doing and we'll figure out how to help, how to improve, how to optimize. But not a big migration.

JOHN STUMPF: We have -- of course we have real estate and locations and people on the Wells side in both those locations, so --

NANCY BUSH: Okay. All right. Great. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Nancy.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your next question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI. Please go ahead.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, John.

JOHN PANCARI: Back to the loan yield topic, just based on your answer there is it -- are you implying that that commercial yield decline of 15 basis points that we saw this quarter could actually snap back next quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You know, it depends on what happens with resolutions, with prepayments that accelerate loan fees into yield, et cetera. So it could. I'd say as a general matter, based on where we are in the cycle, there are fewer resolutions, fewer PCI wind ups today. And I wouldn't expect -- we're not making bad loans anymore or buying them for that matter in quite that way.

So I would expect that type of accounting to quiet down and more reflect the amortization of loan fees into yield and then of course the acceleration of those when loans prepay. We are in the higher commercial loan prepayment environment probably just because things are so liquid. I wouldn't expect it to snap back, but it certainly could increase a little bit, move around, et cetera.

JOHN PANCARI: One other thing on the margin. The swaps, just want to get an idea of how much of the swaps benefited the margin in the quarter and then also your appetite to add incremental swaps at some point.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We don't break out what the swaps benefit is to the margin. As we've described our approach to adding duration to the balance sheet for -- just for everyone's benefit, a portion of that's been done by swapping floating rate loans to fixed, which has a very similar impact to adding fixed rate securities to the portfolio. We don't anticipate a lot more of that activity today.

I mentioned in response to one of the earlier questions that we think we are about where we need to be from an asset sensitivity perspective. That could change as deposit flows ebb and flow and we could end up with a lot more liquidity to deploy. But at the moment I think we like where we are from an asset sensitivity point of view and so we probably won't be moving rapidly down the path toward meaningfully growing the securities portfolio today or for swapping more floating rate loans.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. And then lastly just on the credit side, on energy, just want to see if you are in a position to quantify your energy reserve right at this point and then also your criticized ratio in energy lending?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We don't break out the components of the allowance, but I can tell you that our approach through the first and second redetermination dates since the price of crude moved down meaningfully has been, from my observation, a conservative approach. We're rerating credits down before waiting for information from borrowers, based on what we know about relationships and trying to get ahead of this.

While frankly as I mentioned in the services space, we could continue to see more negative migration or even some meaningful negative migration in the industry, we feel great about where we are from an allowance perspective in the energy space where we stand today. But we don't break out the component pieces of the allowance.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. Thanks. One more very quick one on that topic.

The AFS portfolio with oil and gas bonds, I think you indicated a couple quarters back that it was around $1.5 billion. Is it still around that amount?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You know, I don't have the total in front of me but I can tell you which is part of your question, actually $1.4 billion is the number. We took some OTTI in the quarter in that space. Those are -- of the corporate names in that portfolio, energy names were the ones that were the most under water for the longest period of time, which is certainly part of our review for other-than-temporary impairment. And in the quarter in our results reflects taking those impairments through the P&L. So we feel good about our basis in those assets.

JOHN PANCARI: Got it. All right, thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR. Please go ahead.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. Most of my questions have been answered. On the jumbo loan market, it's one of the areas I think if you're not number one, I think you are number one, but we're seeing more and more market share go to the jumbo markets.

Can you add more color around that? And then in the loans that you put in your portfolio, my guess is most of them are jumbos. And when do you feel that you're going to be filled up there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: The loans that we put up -- the single family mortgage loans that we put on our balance sheet, virtually all of them are prime jumbo loans because there, as you know, there is no secondary market for those loans. So to serve those customers we end up keeping them.

Frankly we -- there is no magical number in terms of when we're full. Our total single family real estate portfolio hasn't shrunk or grown in the aggregate over the last few years meaningfully. The levels stayed about the same, but we've had home equity paying off. We've had pick-a-pay paying off, we've had lower quality loans winding down and prime jumbo loans winding up a little bit. And I guess I would anticipate that to continue.

As jobs are stronger and housing is stronger there are more people looking at those types of homes, requiring those types of loans, and only a balance sheet lender can provide that loan because there's no place in size for a mortgage company or any place else to go. There's no government program and there's no private label market.

JOHN STUMPF: I'd also add this, Paul, that as a percentage, even though the overall real estate, residential real estate totals have not changed, the quality has improved significantly. And while the totals are about the same, since we've grown our loans the percentage of those loans as a percentage of our overall portfolio, loan portfolio, is down and those jumbos also tend to have a bit -- they tend to turn over a bit faster. They have a little less duration because those folks tend to move more often and so forth. And these are for our very best customers, and it's -- and we are -- we surely like that asset class.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. This concludes the call. Thank you all for joining us. We always appreciate your interest and involvement and again for all the questioners.

We will see you here three months from now, it will be 2016, reflecting our fourth-quarter earnings. So thank you very much. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c42 : Labor/Personnel | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020151015ebae001ba
  


 HD
 Q2  2015 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
13,889 words
   PD
14 July 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

   TD
JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, John Shrewsberry, will discuss second-quarter results and answer your questions. This call will be recorded.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings; including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Jim. Good morning and thank you for joining us today. We earned $5.7 billion in the second quarter as our diversified business model continued to generate strong loan and deposit growth.

Our financial strength and competitive positioning have allowed us to capture opportunities for growth both organically and through acquisitions. In addition, our commitment to managing risk and the benefit of an improving housing market continue to improve our credit results.

Let me highlight our growth this quarter compared with one year ago. We earned $1.03 in earnings per share, up 2% from a year ago. We generated $21.3 billion of revenue, up 1% from a year ago with 4% growth in net interest income. We had broad-based loan growth with total loans reaching a record $888.5 billion and our core loan portfolio increased by $68.5 billion or 9%.

Our growth benefited from the $11.5 billion GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction in the second quarter. Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong customer and balance growth with average deposits up $83.8 billion or 8% while we reduced deposit costs. We also grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.6%.

Our credit performance continued to improve and our net charge-off rate declined to 30 basis points of average loans, the lowest level in 20 years. Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation and returning capital to our shareholders remains a priority. We increased our quarterly dividend rate by 7% to $0.375 per common share and we repurchased 36 million shares of common stock.

We've reduced our common shares outstanding for five consecutive quarters with shares down 105 million from one year ago.

While recent developments in Europe and Asia have implications for the US economy, the ongoing US economic expansion has remained on track and has entered its seventh year; A feat accomplished only four other times in US history.

The labor market continued to recover with a record 57 consecutive months of payroll gains and housing activity has been especially encouraging with second-quarter positioned to be their best quarter for home sales since 2007.

These factors, along with an increase in consumer confidence, make me optimistic that the economic expansion will sustain momentum into the second half of the year. And Wells Fargo should benefit from the increase in economic activity as we remain focused on meeting our customers' financial needs.

John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our second-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Our results this quarter are straightforward and demonstrate momentum across a variety of key business drivers. We continue to have strong loan and deposit growth across our diversified businesses. We grew net interest income with earning asset growth and our net interest margin improved.

Many of our customer facing businesses generated strong fee growth. Credit quality improved and we had lower net charge-offs and a higher reserve release. And we continue to operate within our targeted ranges for ROA, ROE and efficiency. Let me now highlight these key drivers in more detail.

On page 3, we highlight the year-over-year growth John emphasized in his remarks including revenue, loans, deposits and EPS as well as improving credit.

Turning to page 4, we continue to benefit from the strength of our balance sheet which has positioned us well to take advantage of growth opportunities and to prudently deploy liquidity.

Short-term investments and fed funds sold were down $59.1 billion from first quarter, reflecting loan growth, security purchases and lower deposit balances driven by seasonality in our consumer businesses and repricing in certain wholesale businesses.

Our securities portfolio grew $16 billion from first quarter. We purchased approximately $36 billion in securities, primarily agency MBS, US treasuries and municipal securities, which were partially offset by maturities, amortization and sales.

Turning to the income statement on page 5, it's important to note that the linked quarter decline in earnings was driven by the $359 million discrete tax benefit recognized in the first quarter. Our pretax earnings increased $386 million or 5% from first quarter, demonstrating the underlying momentum we had across our businesses.

Revenue increased $40 million from first quarter with strong growth in net interest income, up $284 million, reflecting growth in earning assets.

We had linked quarter growth in fee income in most of our customer facing businesses including deposit service charges, trust and investment fees, card fees, merchant processing, commercial real estate brokerage, mortgage and insurance. However, noninterest income declined to $244 million from first quarter due to lower market sensitive revenue and lower other income driven by the accounting impact related to our debt hedges.

Expenses declined despite an increase in operating losses related to litigation accruals and we generated positive operating leverage.

As shown on page 6, we continue to have strong loan growth in the second quarter, our 16th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. Our core loan portfolio grew by $68.5 billion or 9% from a year ago and was up $29.5 billion from first quarter. Our growth was broad-based, which I'll highlight on the next slide, and included $11.5 billion from the GE Capital loan purchase and financing transaction.

This transaction is an excellent example of how the combination of our balance sheet strength, the expertise of our team members and our relationship focus positions us to capture opportunities for growth. 67% of this portfolio is US based with the remainder of the portfolio predominantly in the United Kingdom and Canada, which are active lending markets for us.

The loans we purchased were to over 145 different customers. While we had existing relationships with many of these customers, the transactions provided us with a meaningful number of new relationships, which we believe will lead to additional opportunities for new business.

It's also important to note that we didn't acquire these loans until late in the quarter. So while it increased ending loan balances, most of the benefit to average loans and to net interest income will be reflected in the third quarter.

On page 7 we highlight the diversity of our loan growth. C&I loans were up $36.6 billion or 15% from a year ago. The GE Capital transaction drove $4.2 billion of this growth primarily from the financing to Blackstone Mortgage Trust. The rest of the growth was diversified across our wholesale businesses with double-digit year-over-year growth in asset-backed finance, equipment finance, corporate banking and government and institutional banking.

Commercial real estate loans grew $10.2 billion or 8% from a year ago and included $7.3 billion from the GE Capital transaction. Core one to four family first mortgage loans grew $15 billion, or 7% from a year ago and reflected continued growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages.

Credit card balances were up $3.9 billion or 14% from a year ago benefiting from strong new account growth and the Dillard?s portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter of last year.

Auto loans were up $3.7 billion or 7% from last year. New originations reflected the strong auto market and were up 5% from a year ago and up 15% from first-quarter benefiting from seasonality.

As highlighted on page 8, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the second quarter, up $83.8 billion from a year ago and up $10.5 billion from first quarter. Our average deposit costs declined 8 basis points, down 2 basis points from a year ago.

The decline in ending balances reflected the seasonal impact to consumer balances due to income tax payments and repricing in certain wholesale businesses, primarily global financial institutions.

We continue to successfully grow our primary consumer checking customers, which were up 5.6% from a year ago, and our primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5.3%. Our primary customers have more products with us and are more than twice as profitable as non-primary customers.

Page 9 highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income, which has shifted slightly to more net interest income as we've benefited from strong earning asset growth. Our earning asset mix results in diversified sources of interest income. The drivers of our fee generation are also diverse and vary based on interest rate and economic conditions.

For example, market sensitive revenue, which includes trading gains from our -- trading and gains from our debt and equity investments, declined 21% from first quarter. Market sensitive revenue was 8% of our fee income in the second quarter, down from 11% in the first quarter, however many of our other customer facing businesses generated higher fee income.

We grew net interest income on a tax equivalent basis by $524 million or 5% from a year ago, reflecting strong growth in average earning assets, up 11% from a year ago. The $312 million increase in net interest income from first quarter reflected growth in earning assets and one extra day in the quarter.

Net interest income also benefited from increased income from variable sources, lower deposit costs and higher income from interest rate swaps used to convert a portion of our floating-rate commercial loans to fixed rate as we continue to add duration to our balance sheet.

The net interest margin increased 2 basis points from the first quarter. This is the first linked quarter increase in the NIM since the first quarter of 2012. The increase this quarter was driven by balance sheet repricing and growth including growth in investments and loans and lower deposit costs which benefited the margin by 4 basis points.

Higher variable income from increased loan fees, semiannual preferred dividends and PCI recoveries contributed 1 basis point to the margin. Customer driven deposit growth reduced the margin by 3 basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income.

Our balance sheet remains asset sensitive and we are positioned to benefit from higher rates. However, we believe we can grow net interest income in 2015 compared with 2014 even if rates remain low.

Total noninterest income declined $244 million from first quarter driven by lower market sensitive revenue and lower other noninterest income. The other noninterest income category was down $426 million in the second quarter driven by the accounting impact of interest rate and currency hedges associated with our long-term debt.

We are required to measure the hedge effectiveness quarterly and, while the net impact is expected to be zero over their term, quarterly interest rate and currency volatility can cause this line item to vary from quarter to quarter.

It's important to note that while total noninterest income declined, if you exclude market sensitive revenue and other income, we had strong diversified fee growth across our other fee categories demonstrating growth from doing more business with our customers. In fact, second quarter was the strongest quarter over the past five quarters for brokerage, trust and investment management, card, merchant processing, insurance and mortgage origination.

Mortgage banking revenue increased [up] $158 million from the first quarter on higher origination volume, up $13 billion or 27%. Second quarter had the highest level of mortgage production since the third quarter of 2013. 54% of originations were for purchases up from 45% in the first quarter. We ended the quarter with a $38 billion application pipeline, up $8 billion from a year ago and down $6 billion from first quarter.

Based on the current rate environment, the level of our pipeline and the seasonal slowdown in the purchase market, we currently expect originations in the third quarter to be lower than second quarter. Our gain on sale ratio was 188 basis points in the second quarter and we currently expect the third-quarter ratio to remain within the range of the past five quarters between 140 and 210 basis points.

As shown on page 12, expenses were down $38 million from the first quarter. The decline was primarily due to lower employee benefits expense which was seasonally elevated in the first quarter. Operating losses were $521 million in the second quarter, up $226 million from first quarter reflecting higher litigation accruals for various legal matters.

While we continue to invest in our business is reflected in higher professional services and advertising expenses in the second quarter, we remain focused on operating efficiently, as indicated by our efficiency ratio improving to 58.5%. We expect the efficiency ratio for the full year 2015 to remain within our targeted range of 55% to 59%.

Turning to our business segment starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $3.4 billion in the second quarter, down 8% from first quarter which included the discrete tax benefit.

One of the drivers of our long-term growth is our ability to grow retail bank households. Year to date through May, we've had the strongest household growth in four years. This strong growth reflects our success in attracting new customers to Wells Fargo as well as the benefit of better retention of our existing households as we remain focused on meeting their financial needs.

This focus has also resulted in an increase in total products held by our customers. For example, we've been successfully growing the penetration rate of credit cards to our retail bank households, which has grown to 42.6% in the second quarter, up from 39% a year ago and 34.9% two years ago.

Credit card purchase volume was up 15% from a year ago reflecting an increase in new accounts. Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago benefiting from the strong growth in primary checking account customers and increased usage among existing customers.

Wholesale Banking earned 2 point -- $2 billion in the second quarter, up 3% from a year ago and 12% from the first quarter. Wholesale Banking continued to have strong loan and deposit growth. Average loans grew 12% from a year ago with broad-based growth across most wholesale businesses. This growth in average loans did not fully reflect the benefit of the GE Capital transaction recorded late in the quarter.

Average core deposits grew 14% from a year ago and were flat linked quarter reflecting pricing actions we took in the second quarter to reduce deposit costs. The strong loan and deposit growth helped grow revenue by 2% from a year ago. Treasury management revenue grew 10% reflecting new product sales and repricing. Second-quarter revenue also benefited from higher equity gains from the sale of certain equity fund investments driven by the Volcker Rule.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement had another record quarter earning $602 million in the second quarter, up 11% from a year ago and up 7% from first quarter. WBR's pretax margin was 26% in the second quarter, exceeding its long-term target of 25%.

Revenue grew 5% from a year ago driven by higher recurring sources of revenue. Net interest income increased 12% and asset-based fees were up 7%. Brokerage advisory assets grew to $434 billion, up $25 billion or 6% from a year ago, primarily driven by net flows.

WBR's strong loan growth continued with eight consecutive quarters of year-over-year growth. Loan growth accelerated this quarter up 16% from a year ago, the strongest growth rate in over six years. Growth was broad-based with strong client demand across a number of product offerings.

Turning to page 16, credit quality in the second quarter improved. Our net charge-off rate declined to 30 basis points of average loans. Nonperforming assets have declined for 11 consecutive quarters and were down $438 million from first quarter.

Nonaccrual loans declined $67 million from first quarter as higher energy nonaccrual loans were offset by improvement in residential real estate as well as other categories.

The reserve release was $350 million in the second quarter. The increase from first quarter was driven by continued credit quality improvement, most notably significant improvement in residential real estate. Our credit losses in our residential real estate portfolios declined 22% and nonaccrual loans declined $388 million or 4% from first quarter.

It's important to note that even small changes in the performance of our residential real estate portfolios tend to outweigh changes in other portfolios given the size of our residential real estate portfolio which is 36% of total loans.

We had an increase in nonperforming loans in our energy portfolio. Oil and gas loans are only 2% of our total loan portfolio and balances in this portfolio declined by approximately $700 million from first quarter reflecting pay downs.

Our energy team completed their spring redetermination process during the second quarter and, as expected, the drop in energy prices did impact the cash flow and collateral values of a number of our borrowers leading to downward portfolio migration. The deterioration in this portfolio is reflected in our allowance for credit losses and we will continue to monitor the energy portfolio.

Finally, when considering our allowance it's important to note that the loans we acquired from GE Capital were accounted for under purchase accounting under GAAP and reflected a lifetime credit loss adjustment and therefore did not require additional loan-loss reserves typically associated with commercial loan growth.

Turning to page 17, our capital levels remain strong with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III fully phased in at 10.5% in the second quarter. We returned $2.9 billion to shareholders in the second quarter through dividends and net share repurchases.

Our common shares outstanding declined by 17.7 million shares in the second quarter, reflecting 36.3 million shares repurchased and 18.6 million shares issued. We expect to reduce our common shares outstanding through share repurchases throughout the remainder of the year.

Our dividend payout ratio increased to 36% in the second quarter as we increased the quarterly dividend rate on our common stock by 7%. Our net payout ratio in the second quarter was 54%.

The decline in our net payout ratio reflected our strong asset and RWA growth as our first call for capital is for providing credit to our customers. However, we remain committed to returning capital to our shareholders and we expect our net payout ratio to be within our targeted range of 55% to 75% for the full year.

In summary, our second-quarter results demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model with strong loan and deposit growth and momentum in not interesting come across many of our customer facing businesses.

Our strong liquidity position and capital levels position us well to serve our existing customers while growing our customer base organically and through acquisition. The improvement in credit quality demonstrated our continued focus on risk management.

While the current interest rate environment remains uncertain, we are actively managing our expenses while focusing on meeting our customers' financial needs to generate growth. We will now be happy to answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning. John, I was wondering if you could just give us a little bit more on your confidence about the economic environment versus the commentary about the tough competition out there.

So we know you guys are going to get a great benefit looking ahead from the averaging of the GE, so on one, could you just kind of flesh out the pockets of loan growth that you continue to expect? And then also, do you anticipate being able to at least be in the pole position to get some more of those GE assets? Thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, there are a variety of loan categories that deserve to be mentioned individually, but you know we are aggressively growing the card business with our existing deposit customers and percentage gains there will probably continue to be very strong.

Autos, in spite of the heat in that market and our public posture of wanting to maintain our credit discipline, still are providing a big opportunity because so many cars are being sold, so that's a continued opportunity.

Still a lot going on in commercial real estate and, as you mentioned, the GE Capital loans helped us late in the third quarter there. Jumbo loans on the residential side have been growing on the balance sheet at the same strong pace for a long time and we continue to -- we expect to see that there.

Across the CMI range, we mentioned several of the businesses that have slightly independent but all attractive growth prospects. The utilization of lines across the variety of corporate and commercial loan categories is still in the call it mid-to low 30s, so there's room for that improvement. And we keep gathering new customers in those businesses as well. So it's really -- it's coming from everywhere at about -- at attractive paces.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, Ken, there is a fair amount of capacity to carry more debt by medium-size companies, small companies and consumers. Rates are very favorable and most Americans, businesses and consumers, have derisked and deleveraged their balance sheets.

So there are opportunities and we're very active on Main Street and on the back 40 working with customers. So we love this opportunity to do the GE thing, but organic growth is still the main part of the way we grow.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And with respect to what there still might be to do with GE, there have been some portfolio sales that have been announced there since the one that we worked on. We're working as closely as we can with them. They're a great relationship of ours. There are businesses that they are trying to dispose of that fit neatly with our expertise.

Some things we're going to be very competitive with and some, because we are not expert in them, will be less so, but we're working hard. We hope that it turns up incremental opportunity to do more of what we've done on the commercial real estate side and we'll be hearing about that in the coming months as their processes unfold.

KEN USDIN: Okay, great. And my -- just follow up on the energy portfolio shrinkage. You spoke about the $700 million decline. I'm sure there will be other questions about the NPA growth. Can you talk about just what you're seeing in the energy side? Is that active push outs by you guys? Is it the [equitization] coming in and taking out credits? Can you just talk about like how that portfolio behavior is acting and how that influences your provisioning decisions?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, so I would describe the reduction in the principal balance as borrowers taking their balances down just to conform with their borrowing base reductions. And as I mentioned, that was about $700 million of reduction in the second quarter.

There was a lot of capital being raised in the first quarter. Capital markets activity was very brisk in the first quarter. It's a little bit slower in the second quarter and a lot of that was equity coming in to stabilize balance sheets.

It feels like that's slowed down just a little bit as people process what happened in the first quarter. So we don't anticipate loan balances or new loan activity to be terribly brisk in terms of leading to higher outstandings at Wells Fargo in the second half of the year.

But the market is acting very rationally; the market is acting very quickly. The opportunists are arriving at the door and trying to work things out, create business combinations and take advantage of the situation to resolve it. So things are happening, frankly, a little bit faster than we might've anticipated sitting here six or eight months ago.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, everyone. I guess just a follow-up on the credit trends within the energy portfolio. With the borrowing base redetermination finalized, you touched on this, but how has performance tracked relative to initial expectations? And how much of the increase in the related nonperforming loans stem from that as opposed to the shared national credit exam?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it's a combination of both, and it's tough to call out specifically what the regulators might have independently wanted that we wouldn't have agreed to or gotten to on our own. The outcome is what it is. I think we had about a $400 million increase in nonperforming assets in energy for the quarter, which feels like it makes sense.

And to the extent that some of those were very conservative estimations of NPA status, then that will be get recaptured on the back end of the process when those loans get worked out, which is fine. We had nominal losses in the quarter and we'll go into a fall redetermination for EMP companies as well and we'll measure the performance of the midstream and services companies at the same time.

We are -- we feel great about where our allowance is right now. As you may recall, it had an impact on our first-quarter number, even though that was pre-redetermination and it has an impact again on the second quarter number. And who knows? As the third and fourth quarter roll through, I'm sure that there will be more loans that are at issue.

The whole portfolio amounts to 2% of our loan portfolio. We feel very well reserved for where we are. We've got the best team in energy banking and our credit folks working through the portfolio. So the impact here is relatively immaterial to Wells Fargo.

And as we called out in our comments, especially in a quarter like Q2, minor changes in our residential real estate portfolio have a tendency to dwarf whatever is going on in energy, because 36% of the loan portfolio is in single-family real estate and 2% is in energy.

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, I would offer this. Since I've been around a long time, think this is my third or fourth cycle. I remember doing workouts in this business in the early 1980s. This one is different in that the energy participants, whether they be on the E&P side or (inaudible), whatever it is, are more conservative.

They tend to be better capitalized. They reacted more quickly through reducing their CapEx budgets. In some case reducing dividends and some of the real stretchy stuff was done outside of our industry, if you will. So it doesn't mean that all situations are going to work out, but they went into this and reacted much more quickly than I've seen in the past cycles.

JOE MORFORD: That's very helpful. Good color. I guess have you quantified what you have in terms of dedicated reserves against the energy portfolio? And as you point out, given that things like single-family is such a bigger part of the overall loan portfolio, what's your broader outlook for the provision and the possibility of any future reserve releases?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So we're bumping along here at 30 basis points of annualized net losses on the total loan portfolio. And as we've called out in the past, we shouldn't expect releases in any given quarter because it's going to -- the calculation each quarter of the allowance is going to include the observed performance of the portfolio. It's going to include general economic conditions. It's going to include where the growth is coming from in the mix and the portfolio.

So I would not model in releases of this magnitude going forward. And of course, as we said, if we keep building our loan portfolio, you would expect to see builds, all things being equal.

Separately, we also called out in the case of GE, if we're growing our loan portfolio by acquiring loans, and we invoke purchase accounting, then that's a complicating factor in whether the allowance is growing or not because the mark on the loans reflects the lifetime credit adjustment. So that's a little complicated.

But so -- and for our own internal purposes, of course, there is and allocable component of the allowance that reflects what we think the loss -- the inherent loss content is in the energy portfolio, and that will grow or shrink depending on how the portfolio performs.

And as I said, I would assume that the next couple quarters aren't much better than the last quarter in terms of -- we're still resolving these issues. Some of them are just coming to light for certain borrowers, but it's a very contained portion of our loan portfolio and the aggregate impact should not be material to Wells Fargo.

JOE MORFORD: Understand. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Hi, good morning. Just wanted to take a step back -- as we enter potentially a rising rate environment in the second half of the year, fingers crossed --. One of your peers today mentioned anticipating a significantly more competitive environment for retail deposits given the regulators have essentially said there are good deposits and bad deposits this time around. And secondarily, they also mentioned entering new markets for the first time and de novo-ing.

I guess the first question is, how should we expect Wells Fargo's repricing to progress if rates actually rise on the short end? Secondarily, given the impressive footprint that you've built, how would you defend that market sharing footprint against those that are aggressively trying to grow retail deposits, particularly for regulatory purposes?

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, let me start with that. It's a great question, and not all retail deposits are created equal. Our focus here has been on relationships and we think relationships on the consumer side start with a consumer checking account. In fact, I don't have the exact number; I think it's 86% of our retail customers have a checking account with us. It's their primary account, they live out of that.

And if you look at certificates of deposit, it's less than $35 billion here. So it's a couple percent of ours. So that's a very different deposit makeup. And like other companies in our industry, we have a lot of experience in rates backing up and the speed of the backup matters.

Where it starts from -- a move from 3% to 4% is different from a move from nothing to 1%. And also where you employ those more expensive deposits, will you find offsetting earning assets to employ those?

And I recall the last time we went through this, we had very aggressive deposit competitors who were using those deposits to fund businesses, acquired as sell models in the real estate business, for example. So it was used -- so we've been through a lot of different things.

We've modeled this. If I were a betting person, I would bet that we'll probably be favorable to what our models suggest early in the backup. But I think one of the great undervalued parts of our business today is the quality of our deposit franchise and you'll see that in the backup.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And to the point of entering new markets, while we adjust our store footprint meaningfully every year by opening and closing stores where we see fit. I think as Carrie Tolstedt has described in our last Investor Day, we believe that we need a certain amount of scale in any urban market before we can really make a difference.

And we are and most of the markets that we'd like to be in and of course we're not going to get there through acquisition. So it would seem unusual for us to commit to building, for example, hundreds and hundreds of stores in a new major urban center that we're not already a part of. So I wouldn't think about that as part of our next stage plan.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it and just a follow-up on some of the comments. John, thank you for telling us how you accounted for the GE purchase. How should we think about your capital progress relative to further or incremental loan purchases?

As I think about the past three quarters, your CET1 ratio has been fairly stable at about 10.5%. If you are using purchase accounting for larger loan purchases, of course that would impact CET1.

And I guess I'm wondering what your thoughts on the -- whether you may account for purchases differently going forward as you consider the CET1 progress, particularly in light in terms of some commentary you've heard from regulators recently about including CET1 surcharges in the CCAR test?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, well, so the first call on our capital is for our customers, including prospective customers, if we were going to add either originate or acquired portfolios of loans. I don't think there's any accounting theory out there that would allow us to add loans without impacting common equity Tier 1. It's a -- risk-weighted assets are what it's for.

So if we had a bigger opportunity to grow RWA faster in a way that we thought was very attractive for shareholders, then we would probably do that. And if we needed to, for example, curtail distributions for some period of time in order to retain the capital to create that outcome, then we would probably do that.

As we've told people in our capital planning process in describing it, we want to keep as much capital as is appropriate and necessary to grow the business and that's primarily by growing RWA. And we want to distribute everything beyond that which is about where we've been operating.

So if there were a bigger RWA opportunity, we would measure where we were starting from. We would understand what sort of organic capital generation was going on at that time. And it's possible that we would end up retaining a little bit more in order to maintain satisfactory levels while growing assets.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Just so I'm clear on the take away. Any portfolio purchases from here has to be life of loan accounting in terms of the losses?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Okay, and just a quick follow-up to the GE portfolio. You did add this quarter you mentioned that we need to consider the average balance impact. Are there any considerations on the average yield impact as we think about the third quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: For average yield of the loan portfolio (multiple speakers)?

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Yes, in terms of --?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, the GE loans fit right into the average is that we already had, so it's really more balanced.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Thank you. Good morning. I wanted to ask a question on margins. Part of the NIM compression that we've been seeing for so long has obviously been in part due to the excess liquidity that's been getting parked at the Fed as deposit growth has significantly outpaced the loan growth, really at a system-wide level.

But today we saw one of your competitors report a decrease in deposits both sequentially and year-over-year while still putting up pretty solid loan growth, and you guys also saw your loan growth outpace your deposit growth this quarter.

So I guess the question is, do you think we're at an inflection point where we'll no longer see deposit growth continue to exceed loan growth? And if so, does that suggest that that we should begin to see some continued improvement in NIMs going forward?

JOHN STUMPF: Let me take the deposit side first and then John can do the -- if you -- one quarter does not make summers or one sparrow, if you will. If you look at the last year, we grew average deposits by almost $84 billion and our core loan portfolio grew $60 billion-some. If you take our overall loan portfolio, it was in the $40 billions or $50 billions.

So we actually outgrew deposits by some $20 billion or $30 billion on an annual basis. The first quarter is always kind of a funny quarter when you compare it to the second quarter -- or second quarter to the first quarter, because of the tax impact of -- because we have such a large retail deposit base.

So we've looked back I think to 1945 -- I think all but one year we grew deposits. So whether we can outgrow or not outgrow, we sure like our opportunities to continue on the deposit side. Because after all, we're growing net new consumer checking accounts primary by 5.6% and on small business we're growing by 5.3% or 5.4%.

These are the strongest numbers I've seen the last couple years in my history with the Company. So these are very, very strong acquisition numbers.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So one thing I would mention about the industry, and I'm sure you're thinking about this, but we're in a slightly different position. But there are some other larger banks that are discouraging deposits because of the adverse impact on leverage ratio, the adverse impact on the GSIB buffer calculations, etc.

And people have been vocal about getting out there and trying to move those deposits out of their banks to take their numbers down and those are in the same deposit numbers that you are referring to. So it's a little bit complicated I think bank by bank as you are looking at it. Ours is as John described.

JOHN STUMPF: And we're also not shrinking our store count. And we have found that in our omni-channel distribution where you have stores or locations, ATMs, phones, online and mobile -- it's the magic of all those working together. And that's a very strong, compelling value proposition for customers.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So attracting, retaining deposits and then back to Erika's question about what happens in a backup, people who want to move away from Wells Fargo are moving away from that value proposition. It's provided to them basically for free in exchange for having the relationship at Wells Fargo.

BILL CARCACHE: Thank you. If I may as a follow-up, the amount of liquidity that you're holding at the said Fed you mentioned fell this quarter from an all-time high of $291 billion I believe last quarter. Is it reasonable to expect that to continue to fall from here as you redeploy more of that into higher-yielding loans and securities.

And taking LCR into consideration and the constraints there, can you give us a sense for where we could see those balances go?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it depends on what's happening on other fronts, including ongoing deposit growth. But I wouldn't forecast it as coming down. But as we've described before, there's probably tens of billions of dollars of room from where we are today even to where that balance might go before we started having any difficult discussions about LCR. So there's plenty of room from where we are today.

BILL CARCACHE: Okay. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. Talking a little bit about the mortgage side, we saw rates go up, but I think a lot of -- [whether] the lines have held in very strong with some of that I think is the refi pipeline coming out of the first quarter. But can you talk a little bit about what you're seeing in the purchase market world? Is it really starting to make a comeback?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So yes, it was a strong quarter, and -- I mean the strongest in a while. It doesn't reflect the pre-crisis types of activity at this point. It's strong in a handful of individual markets, California, New York, Southern Florida, Denver are particular markets where we've seen a lot of strength.

First-time homebuyers are a little bit stronger at about 30% of home purchases. You saw that our purchases as a percentage of originations were 54% this quarter versus 45% the prior quarter. As you mentioned, the second quarter had a lot of refis closing in it that were locked in the first quarter when rates were very low.

So when you think about new application volume in the second quarter, my guess is as that flows through in Q3, that number will be even higher. All things being equal, because rates did back up meaningfully in the quarter.

So the business is good. There's plenty of credit available. We are obviously as enthusiastic and committed to it as we've ever been and margins have been holding in there nicely and the pipeline looks quite good, actually (multiple speakers).

PAUL MILLER: And then -- go ahead.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: One last thing I'd add is that all of that is a reflection of continued affordability. While home prices have moved, they are still affordable. While rates have moved, they're still affordable, so that's helping a lot and we've had an improving jobs market which brings more people into eligibility for a purchase or refinancing.

PAUL MILLER: And then you saw the -- everybody saw the [Respetilla] has been pushed back another three months. Do you see any impact on the mortgage market or on how you view the mortgage market with the new regulations with Respetilla.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: No, except -- one thing I'd say is we were ready to go at the original deadline, but, no impact.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, BERNSTEIN: Hi. Thank you. Just a question, John, on the efficiency ratio. You were at the high end of your range last couple of quarters. Do you see opportunities to drive down the efficiency ratio prior to rates going up? Or is it more likely to stay still at the upper end of the range until we see interest rates move higher?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think it's going to stay in the upper part of the range until revenue moves higher, which will probably happen as a result of -- or at least most meaningfully over a short period of time because of rates moving higher.

We are spending the money that we think we need to spend to run a great business today and manage risk as well as invest in the future around things that customers want, things that we needed to be a well-run, resilient, compliant, risk managed, technologically savvy firm and that gets us to 58% plus or minus, which I would remind you is a very good number for a bank of our size.

But, yes, there is no near-term path or project to try and drive ourselves down in the range. We're trying to operate where we have been, accomplish all the things that we need to accomplish and deal with the reality that we are in a below 3% GDP growth environment, in a zero rate environment, neither of which is as hospitable as some other environments might be for revenue growth in banking.

JOHN STUMPF: And, John -- but we're always, as you know us and you know us well -- we continue to look for opportunities to simplify the business, streamline the work we do so we can repurpose those dollars into things that are important to customers, important to risk management, other things here.

So the development that we are doing in image capture in our branches or our stores, different things that we invest in payments, cyber, and all these other things that we do, we're self funding through being very thoughtful about where we spend our money.

JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you. And one other question, guys. Could you comment on the market and what it's like for additional portfolio purchases? I assume it's very competitive. Obviously, GE has got some other assets out for sale, and just in general, nothing specific, but more general. What are the pros and cons when you look at portfolios to purchase, and kind of how do you feel like the markets flagged for that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, it's very competitive, and I think that this current set of assets that's being offered for sale is being viewed by some people as the biggest opportunity in a long time. Some of the assets or platforms are suitable for non-depository institutions.

And I would say that nonbanks interested in creating a lending platform would appear to be willing to pay a bigger premium than people who have an existing platform and are looking to add customers and assets to it.

All of these do require financing in one form or another, so that can be either a limiting factor or, for the easier to finance assets, I guess that can be a benefit for people who don't have deposit bases in order to bid, but very competitive is how I would describe it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: (Technical difficulty) questions, one on other income and one on the wealth business. You called out on other income that you had a $426 million impact from the debt hedges. I just wanted to make sure I understood what that was driven by.

I know you indicated rate moves. Just want to make sure I understand, is that the long end of the curve? And does it have any relation to the fair value hedges that you put in the 10-Q, the $173 million? So wanted to make sure I understand how that works.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, so for some of the data that we issue, we swap it back to dollars and swap it back to LIBOR. And so we've got perfect cash flow hedges on where we choose to do that.

The accounting for that requires the liability on the one hand the hedge on the other to be discounted using different discount rates. And so over the life of both instruments, there can be some noise in the P&L.

We've had a benefit in the past and this time we had a negative and it was driven by a few things, but mostly by the major movements in longer-term swap rates in dollar, sterling and LIBOR during the quarter, and the net impact from the quarter is as it was described in the materials.

So I would just point out, this is sort of a -- call this a timing difference, an accounting difference, it nets back to zero over the life of the liability, so we don't think of it as a real economic issue but it creates noise in the other noninterest income line item, and --

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so the net was $426 million, not the $426 million plus the $173 million from the fair value hedges in the 10-Q?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Okay, separately, on wealth. I've been just reading some articles recently that have talked about how -- and you can tell me if this is correct or not, but how the focus is not really on increasing the number of FAs.

And obviously we see flat FAs in the release you put out today but more on the technology and the investment spend there. Is that accurate, number one? And number two, could you explain how you're looking to advance the technology platforms that you got in this business?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, so I wouldn't say that it's an express strategy to not increase the number of FAs. I don't think that that's necessarily the primary driver of value creation in the long term for David Carroll's business. You may see that differently, John.

The point on technology is a good one. There are a number of initiatives underway in that business to modernize and to create service capability to attract new investors and to better serve the investors that we have and that turns up in the primary systems that our financial advisors used to interact with our customers.

It will turn up in our mobile and online offerings that allow people to do more for themselves. And at some point, it could even include service or capability that competes with some of the sort of the robo-advisory people out there today who rely primarily on technology to construct portfolios and make offerings to customers.

All of those things are opportunities for us to make the business even stronger and more relevant going forward on top of what we feel is very good performance over the last few years.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, Betsy, we see this really is one of the most attractive growth opportunities in the Company. If you think of how we are positioned as a broadly diversified Company serving customers, one in three Americans, one way or another -- Americans are living longer. They are probably convinced you have to be more reliant on their resources for their retirement.

And we have 10% to 11% of the deposits in the country and yet only a fraction of that as far as where we manage well. So this is a big opportunity and investments in people and systems and capabilities, but that should in no way -- the growth -- we've already done great work.

David Carroll and his team have done incredible. Think how many companies out there would love to have -- the way we monetize and the way everybody else does -- $602 million of after-tax earnings for a quarter -- 26% margins. These are very, very good numbers.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi. A factual question. What was the amount of your debt hedge loss in the second quarter? You mentioned that other income is down $426 million. Was that the amount of the debt hedge loss, or is it different?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It was -- we had a $127 million gain in the first quarter and a $193 million loss in the second quarter. And again, I just want to describe that as the accounting treatment for the hedging program that we have there. But -- so think of this -- the delta between Q1 and Q2 as what creates the more outsized number.

MIKE MAYO: So normal would just be zero?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: No, normal would be around zero. You would expect it to be zero over its life. Sometimes it's a little positive, sometimes it's a little negative. And it's driven by swap rates and currency movements in the currencies where we issue.

MIKE MAYO: All right. The more important question for me, you mentioned repricing in wholesale businesses and at -- what are you doing there as it relates to your market-sensitive revenues?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: What we repriced in wholesale is deposits, and for a variety of customers, the ones who seem to have acted most strongly in the deposit area were FIs, which for all the reasons you can imagine, have relatively low value liquidity deposits.

And so, we have been paying less for those deposits, or in some cases, and in some jurisdictions, have been charging a little bit for those deposits, and that's what we were referring to.

MIKE MAYO: What are you seeing in pricing in your market sensitive businesses more generally? Is that one reason why your -- this is the latest lowest trading quarter you've had since the third quarter of 2011 and we'll certainly take the other revenues in lieu of trading.

But are you pricing some of those activities away? Is it simply the markets weaker? What's going on there, but especially as it relates to potential repricing or the competitive environment?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, you know, it's not as a result of Wells Fargo's specific pricing strategies. It's just the chips falling where they did in terms of flows, volumes and other activity in the business. And as you know, in our trading business, we have what you are thinking of which is market-making and customer accommodation activity.

But we also have the impact of our own deferred comp program, etc., which makes that line a little bit noisy. But it's not as a result of any conscious business decision to price things differently, to do any more of this or less of that, it's just where the quarter fell.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, so is pricing getting better, worse? And if so, what areas within the market sensitive areas?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I wouldn't say that pricing is getting any better. You would think that pricing might be getting better in areas where other banks are pulling back from providing financing or liquidity to customers, which is part of the discussion around how some of the bigger trading oriented banks have been providing repo, providing securities finance, etc., and have limited their appetites.

But prices haven't gone up that much. I think capacity has come out and people have had to figure out how to deal with that. So at the moment, it's still very -- it's as competitive as it ever was, and the pricing reflects that, but not because of conscious strategies.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thanks very much. I just had one question to clarify the loan growth expectations. If I look at the core loan growth, it's growing about -- excluding the GE transaction and run off, it's growing at about almost 4 times nominal GDP which would be at the higher end of the historical norm.

So I just want to make sure I understand, John, your comments about expectations of maybe some incremental leverage across both commercial and consumer but I wonder to what extent it may in fact -- that may already be occurring and the GDP number will move to reflect that rather than an acceleration in loan growth.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That's a good question. We don't model loan growth necessarily as a reflection of prior quarter GDP, but it's an interesting relationship. I think our point is that the areas where we've been experiencing organic loan growth all are still very active.

We're still very competitive. We're getting more than our fair share in most of those categories. We've got further to run in card I would say than other people because we are starting from a smaller base. And then in some of our material businesses we've got customers who have been holding back on their borrowing capacity.

So in the corporate -- but in the commercial space in particular where we are a very big player, our customers are still very cash heavy, which is reflected in our deposits, and have maintained very low leverage profile. So that if they got a little bit more enthusiasm around M&A, around organic growth or building a new plant, etc., expanding their businesses, they have lots of debt capacity to do that.

We would expect to see some of that in line utilization or demand for funded assets. But, the real take away is that we're very well-positioned in all of our key lending markets and competing well today. And in those areas where there might be incremental drivers of demand and we hope to benefit from it when it happens. And then, of course, we're working on a few strategic or inorganic activities as well.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Sure. Thank you for that. And then just one clarification question. Did you indicate how much your legal accrual was for the period?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We didn't. We indicated the size of operating losses in total. The amount of the change -- and the amount of the change is reflected -- reflects increased litigation accruals, but we don't split that out from our other operating losses.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And are those legal accruals for issues related -- disclosed in the 10-K or for new ones?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's for a variety of matters, most of which you would already be familiar with.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: All right. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK RESEARCH: Good morning. I know there's been some talk about you're working on becoming more efficient, just kind of continuous improvement. But do you have some formal initiative underway? I guess there was an article in a regional paper a couple months ago and it had mentioned something called E&E, or something along the lines of that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, that's -- as John was mentioning earlier, we are trying to repurpose our expense dollars to their highest value area. And so, there's a collection of programs and ways of doing business, of thinking about how we spend our resources that are designed to do just that.

So it's an internal -- it's a relatively formal program and it's around some operational improvements, it's around some of our staff functional alignment, some of our technology spend, etc., and it really is designed to make sure that where we're spending money -- and of course we spend a lot of it, that we are -- we're putting it in the most impactful places.

MATT O'CONNOR: Is it the kind of program where if we don't get rates increasing and a stronger economy, then you can kind of redirect some of the savings more to the bottom line versus investing in other areas?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, dollars are fungible, but the way we are thinking about it is we're directing those dollars toward places that are going to make a difference for customers, which would drive revenue, and you could see bottom-line improvement as a result of that.

But as I mentioned in response to an earlier question, it's not really designed to drive us down in the efficiency ratio, or to drive total dollars of expense down, all things being equal. It's designed to make sure that we are spending the money that we are spending in the most impactful place.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately on the net interest margin. As we think about the trajectory from here, assuming rates don't increase, what should the path of the NIM be?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it's going to depend on what happens with deposits versus loan and other earning asset growth primarily. So if we continue along the path that we are on right now, then you would think that it would probably stay in or about this range. There is not much else -- deposit pricing is quite efficient here at 8 basis points.

So as we get more invested, as we add more loans and we -- if we convert cash to higher-yielding assets, then that should be an improvement. Over the course -- if you fast forwarded a few years, we'll probably be layering in more senior unsecured in connection with TLAC, that will probably have a negative impact, although relatively modest in the overall scheme of things.

We still expect net interest income in 2015 to be higher than 2014, which is, frankly, the most important thing, all things being equal, and that's what we're driving toward.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, let me just go back to the expensing just one more time so we're all on the same page. There is talk on this call, and of course, we listen to what the chairwoman of the Fed has to say about rates. But when we plan internally here, we don't consider rate increases as part of the ongoing justification for an investment in anything.

So in other words, we don't -- you would not hear language like I want to make this investment because when rates turn around and go back up, then this justifies -- this investment will be justified. We don't know what's going to happen to rates. And if rates do increase, either long-term or the short end or both, that's a benefit to us.

But for the last five, six years, you could've said the same thing, and it didn't happen. So that's why there is a continual consideration here and pushing ourselves and our thinking to eliminate work that's no longer beneficial, taking out processes that don't add value and investing in places and things that do add value. And make us more competitive, more nimble, more relative to the constituents that we serve.

MATT O'CONNOR: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: John Pancari, Evercore ISI.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Good morning. Just a couple quick areas I wanted to ask about. On the commercial loan yields, looks like they were up pretty solidly 7% to 8% -- I mean 7 to 8 bps or so for the quarter. Just want to see if we can get a little bit of color on what drove that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure, so there's a handful of things. It's the mix of the assets that we're adding to that portfolio from one period to the next, which reflects customer activity, customer demand, both in terms of what's rolling on and what's rolling off.

Also, you're seeing in that calculation, the impact of having swapped portions of that portfolio from floating to [fixed] because that impacts the yield. And we've done that partially as the recognition that we think we're going to be in a lower long-term rate environment for a longer period of time than we might have previously thought.

So that impact is -- runs through there as well. Still asset sensitive, but not waiting forever for rates to begin to move in that portfolio.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, all right. That's helpful. And then on the credit front, back to the energy theme just real quick, any clarity on how much of that increase in the energy-related nonaccruals were E&P versus oil service?

And then separately, it sounds like some of this movement may have been related to the shared national credit exam. Was there anything non-energy that may have been -- and any takeaways out of the shared national credit exam that may have impacted your non-energy portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So on the first question -- remind me of the first question again.

JOHN PANCARI: Yes, just (multiple speakers).

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, it was predominantly all E&P. The services credits have -- first of all, they don't go through the exact same -- there is no borrowing base redetermination to occur in services companies; it's more like any other corporate in terms of how they are reviewed. But the impact has not been felt there in quite the same way as it has with E&P companies.

And then back to the shared national credit review. It really -- in terms of the negative outcomes or the suggested downgrades, it really was primarily an energy set of conclusions this time around.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, all right, and then lastly, the home-equity portfolio, just wonder if you can give us an update there. As you are seeing some of the lines exit their draw periods, want to see how those credits have been performing and if you're seeing any migration there.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, well, we've been -- as we've talked about, ahead of this end of draw expectation for some time now because it was pretty easy to schedule. And we're going into a couple of years when those 10-year draw periods will be coming to a close from the heaviest periods of issuance right at the -- prior to the turn of the cycle.

And, frankly, I would say we are experiencing a better outcome than we originally imagined, in part because of our -- the focus that we've had, the team that we've had facing -- the proactive work that we're emphasizing, trying to get people re-fied into something that is suitable or more tolerable for them to repay. So, things are going well.

JOHN STUMPF: And losses in that portfolio this quarter are in the 56 or 57 basis point range, so --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Very tolerable.

JOHN STUMPF: Very tolerable.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, on that front, do you know how much -- what percentage of your 2005 originations may have been re-fied already or worked out?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't -- on this call, our real estate group certainly knows, because that's how -- that's been managed so they'll know what they have left and what is gone already. But what I'm focusing on when I say that there is a plan underway that's being executed that's working, of course, for the ones that are still there and then have it re-fied out.

JOHN PANCARI: Got it. All right. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thanks. Had a question on -- you talked about the duration of the balance sheet and you are doing that through swaps and through investment portfolio purchases. Can you give us a feel for, half a year, six months? Is it nine months? And how far do you want to go in the duration of the portfolio or the overall balance sheet? So how far are we along that process?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So when we use the term duration, we're using it in that context but not to define a duration of the balance sheet, but really to think about using those tools, the investment portfolio and loan portfolios, to impact our overall asset or liability sensitivity.

And so the net conclusion of that is that, not terribly unlike where we were at our last Investor Day, we find ourselves still asset sensitive. We mentioned a year ago May that we thought that we were -- we had probably 10 to 30 basis points worth of net sensitivity -- net benefit from a 100 basis point instantaneous parallel movement in rates, a very stylized example.

And where last we're less asset sensitive -- if we were at the mean then we're at the lower of that range today, we believe. It's probably a conservative estimate. That's how we generally calculate things.

But by adding securities, by swapping floating rates to fixed, and other actions that have occurred in the growth of the business, we've made ourselves a little bit less asset sensitive because of the belief that we could be in a lower rate environment for a longer period of time.

And we're earning today rather than maintaining all of that sensitivity for the future. We still have plenty of it and we'll develop more of it as time passes, but that's how I would answer that question.

MARTY MOSBY: And would you see anymore lengthening in the near-term given the steepness of the yield curve now gives you an opportunity to kind of productively use that to your advantage?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I would expect that we would continue to be adding securities to our securities portfolio, for sure.

MARTY MOSBY: And then lastly, the mortgage banking pipeline was very strong going into the second quarter. It looks like the pull through was about as low as we've seen in the last year. I was just curious if there was any operational issues or anything that happened during the quarter. Was it just refis that never got closed? What was kind of the difference in the pull through for this particular quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: There's nothing that I would point to. We -- the production occurred the way we would have expected it to. We ended with a relatively long -- relatively large pipeline as well. So nothing different there.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Kevin Barker, Compass Point.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, COMPASS POINT: Just a quick follow-up on this and the mortgage banking results. You saw margins remain pretty strong compared to what you've had over an historical basis and they were strong in the first quarter despite the decline in the primary/secondary spread.

Now the front half of the quarter looked a lot stronger than the second half of the quarter. Could you just give us some detail between the differences what you saw in maybe April and early May versus what you saw in the back half of the quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, it's tough to be that precise about it, although I'm sure there are people in Wells Fargo Home Mortgage who are thinking about it as granularly as the question that you are asking.

Certainly, in the first quarter, as rates rallied hard and that pipeline really, really grew, applications came in at an increased pace. The capacity constraints to deal with that both at Wells Fargo and in the industry are supportive of higher margins, as people use their scarce capacity as beneficially as they can. So you'd expect, if that's a high point, for things to slip a little bit from there.

In terms of where they've gotten to and where they are now, we expect them to continue to be in that range. The full range, frankly, is a pretty attractive place to be operating. And as long as we can stay higher in the range like we have, we will be thrilled for that to happen.

There's also, from one quarter to the next, a mix between what's happening in retail versus what's happening through others is going to influence our gain on sale and that might look different from one originator to another. I think that's an important consideration.

But I mean, frankly, I would look at it quarter to quarter and then seasonally adjust it to think about what the steady-state is. But the last thing I'd say is that we're -- again, we're pretty happy with where things have remained, given how competitive that market is, given how much capacity there is and we're happy to be operating here.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I think, just to support John's comment, I remember when gain on sales years ago were 40, 50, 60 basis points. So the pricing discipline, even with the capacity and the size of the market is a -- I think a good thing for Americans, good thing for borrowers, good thing for the originators because we're getting paid for the work that we're doing, the value add.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay, and then just to mention a follow-up on some of the comments on the extension of the duration of the balance sheet this quarter with the use of interest rate swaps.

Could you provide some more details on why you're increasing your duration at this point in the cycle? Is it a change in your view on whether you want to be patient for higher rates or is there some other reason why you would extend duration now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So -- what's been happening for a while. We're talking about it a little bit more now and maybe it was a little bit starker in this quarter because deposit growth slowed also say you sell cash balances go down while both securities and loans went up.

But as you suggest, regardless of what's happening with short-term rates and over what period of time that normalization of policy occurs, it's our expectation that the longer end of the curve, that we're going to be lower for longer than we would have thought six months ago, a year ago or a couple of years ago. And how we are managing the balance sheet is a reflection of that.

KEVIN BARKER: Is there anything specific that you are seeing that would change your view -- that has changed your view in the last six months?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, in the last 6 to 12 months, I would say what's happened with rates around the world has been a big reminder that a 2.5% US tenure is a really attractive asset and could be for a really long time.

So that's why I say regardless of what's happening with Fed funds, we are preparing ourselves for a long march at the longer end of the curve. And if we're wrong, we have to be prepared for that in terms of what it means to capital, etc., and we certainly are, and we sensitized that drastically to make sure that we've protected our balance sheet. But in the meantime, we're getting our assets more productively deployed.

I'd point out, there's still $250 billion worth of cash in the bank, so there's plenty of short-term liquidity and dry powder for what happens if we are wrong and there are more attractive entry points on the way back up, if that were to occur, but it's a good question.

KEVIN BARKER: Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Saving the best for last.

JOHN STUMPF: Always. Hi, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Hi. Couple of questions on the mortgage front. JPMorgan Chase reported a very strong production quarter in jumbo mortgages this morning. How are you guys positioned in that market and what percentage or rough percentage of your production are jumbos?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, about 25% of our production are jumbos and that includes, of course, many of our most valuable customers in terms of the breadth of the total relationship. We carry them on our balance sheet, as you know. And I think the total category right now for jumbos on our books is about $120 billion, $125 billion of the call it $1.7 trillion overall.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. and just a question on the mortgage business as a whole. I mean do you consider at this point given all the gyrations we've had in the mortgage business in the past 10 years, are we at what you consider to be, quote, a normal mortgage market right now? And are you staffed appropriately for that market or where do the mechanics of the mortgage business stand for you right now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, in terms of staffing, I'm sure it's true that we're probably a little bit heavy in some areas around loss mitigation and working NPA's and foreclosed assets through the system, versus where we might be in a completely normalized point in the cycle just because they're still elevated, so there's probably opportunity there over some period of time.

From a policy normalcy point of view, there are still other things happening, whether it's agency reform. The relationship between the FHA and the industry is still not completely settled and that has to happen for people to feel good about things.

There's still no meaningful secondary market for nonconforming loans and there was a good one for prime, jumbo loans that existed pre-crisis, and so at some point that probably has to reemerge and that hasn't happened yet. But we're just as committed to the business.

It's a very important part of the relationship between us and our customers because buying and financing a home is one of the most significant things our customers will ever do.

We enjoy our status as the largest mortgage servicer in the land and our status as the largest mortgage originator as well. So we're working hard to try and shape good outcomes in those areas that are still unsettled and we're making the most of it during the period that we are in.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Nancy, it's an insightful question because I think part of the distinguishing features of big scale players in this business whether your successful or not is how quickly you can scale up when business opportunities present themselves and how quickly you can scale down.

And we think we're pretty good at that, among other things, and some are surprised the mortgage market has not come back stronger, but we went through a pretty deep downturn. This was the asset class that had the problem in 2008 and 2009, and it steadily -- it's improving and healing, but it's going to take time. And so, like John said, we really like this business for a whole host of reasons.

NANCY BUSH: I would just ask as an add on question, Bank of America talks about their legacy asset servicing, etc., which is mostly mortgages that were still on the books that they are working out. Where are you guys in working out any problems you got through the Wachovia deal, etc.? Are you pretty much through the workout period now with most of that stuff?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, the Pick-a-Pay was probably the most problematic of that portfolio. That came over let's say in the $120 billion range -- $120 billion or so; is $54 billion, give or take now. And the average loan to value on that is in the [$60 billion's].

So -- and if you look at -- if you look at the overall servicing portfolio we have, it's 94%, 95% current. And so we've -- still issues going through there, there are some judicial foreclosure states that we're still having to work through, but for the most part, it's performed above our expectations, especially with respect to the Wachovia part.

And we are -- I think were in the later innings of working on this. And as John mentioned, there are some opportunities to take some costs out. The cost of servicing a current loan versus one that's delinquent is such a big difference. So when people look at these portfolios, you really have to look at the past dues because it really -- and the ones in foreclosure because that really skews the costs on those.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I know that this is clear in the materials, Nancy, but we're -- our nonstrategic or wind down portfolio is ticking down at $2 billion to $3 billion per quarter and there's $50 billion-odd of it left. So the tail of it will be here for a while.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, all right. Thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. Well, this concludes our call. Thank you again for spending time with us. It's always enjoyable for us to represent our 265,000 team members and the work that they do every quarter. And John and I and Jim will see you next quarter. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you for all participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150715eb7e001jl
  


 HD
 Q1  2015 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,051 words
   PD
14 April 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo First-Quarter Earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & CO: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss first-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, and thank you for joining us today.

We earned $5.8 billion in the first quarter, which reflected the benefit of our diversified business model and our continued focus on the real economy. By building relationships with our existing customers and successfully generating new relationships, during the past year we were able to grow loans and deposits and increase our revenue. Our capital levels remained strong, and we continued to focus on rewarding our shareholders by increasing our dividend and reducing our shares outstanding.

Let me highlight our growth during the quarter compared with a year ago. We generated $21.3 billion of revenue, up 3% from a year ago, with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income. We had broad-based loan growth, with our core loan portfolio increasing by $54.2 billion or 7%. Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong customer and balanced growth, with total deposits reaching a record $1.2 trillion, up $102.1 billion or 9%. And we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.7%. Our credit performance continued to be very strong, with net charge-offs down $117 million and our net charge-off ratio declined to 33 basis points.

Our financial performance resulted in strong capital generation, and returning capital to our shareholders remains a priority. Our net pay out ratio was 61% in the first quarter. We're extremely pleased that our 2015 capital plan allows us to increase our quarterly dividend by 7% to $0.375 per common share for the second quarter of this year, of course subject to Board approval. Our ability to increase our dividend every year since 2011 demonstrates the benefits of our diversified business model and conservative risk management, as well as our disciplined capital management process.

We have over 90 different businesses that are benefiting from the continued strength in the US economy. While the first-quarter economic headlines, again, demonstrated that the economic recovery has been uneven, I believe the underlying economic expansion that is approaching its sixth anniversary remains largely on track. Interest rates remain low, homes are affordable, consumer and small business confidence remains high. And the labor market is approaching full employment after a record 54 consecutive monthly payroll gains. I'm optimistic that the improving US economy will continue to provide Wells Fargo with many opportunities to better serve our customers, our communities, and reward our shareholders.

John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our first-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Well Fargo had another strong quarter earning $5.8 billion and $1.04 in EPS in the first quarter, and returning net $3.3 billion of capital to shareholders. Our results were driven by average loan and deposit growth and lower expenses, while we maintained our strong capital and liquidity positions.

Our results also benefited from a net $359 million discrete tax benefit in the first quarter primarily from a reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax positions, due to the resolution of prior-period matters with US federal and state taxing authorities. As a reminder, we also had a $423 million discrete tax benefit in the first quarter of last year. We take a prudent approach in accounting for our tax liability, which can result in discrete tax benefits depending on the resolution of prior-period matters with taxing authorities.

Page 3 highlights our results compared with a year ago. Including increased revenue and pretax pre-provision profit, strong loan and deposit growth, and lower share count reflecting net share repurchases.

Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification, and the balance between spread and fee income in the first quarter. The benefit of the diversity of our 90-plus businesses was demonstrated by our ability to grow both net interest income and non-interest income in first quarter compared with a year ago, which was a key driver of our performance. As I've highlighted in the past, the drivers of our fee generation vary based on interest rates and economic conditions.

For example, market-sensitive revenue, which includes trading and gains from debt and equity investments, declined 22% from a year ago, dropping from 14% of fee income to 11%. However, other businesses had strong growth and we generated higher trust in investment, card and mortgage banking fee income. With this broad-based growth we were able to grow fee income 3% from a year ago.

So let me highlight some key drivers of our first-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective, starting on page 5. I believe our balance sheet has never been stronger. We generated core loan and deposit growth and have increased liquidity and capital to record levels.

Let me take a minute to describe how we're managing in the current rate environment. We've been able to perform well across a variety of rate cycles over time, because of the diversification of the business model. We're often asked about how we manage our interest rate risk, in particular the timing of making investments in a lower rate environment.

As you might imagine, we evaluate our interest rate risk position continuously, and frequently weigh options to alter the overall sensitivity of the balance sheet. We consider factors such as the expected growth in loans and deposits, performance under a wide range of rate scenarios, and the tradeoffs between the protection from lower rates afforded by adding duration and the consequences of those actions in higher rate scenarios.

Based upon these analyses, we then make decisions about the kind of instruments we use. We can purchase securities outright, or extend the duration of variable rate loans with interest rate swaps, and the magnitude and profile of the duration we add. All in all, we try to balance a number of considerations and maintain flexibility as conditions evolve.

Turning to the income statement on page 6. Revenue declined from the fourth quarter as net interest income was lower, reflecting two fewer days in the first quarter and lower income from variable sources. However, non-interest income grew from the fourth quarter, even though the fourth quarter included the $217 million gain on the sale of government guaranteed student loans. The growth in fee income reflected momentum across our businesses, which I'll highlight throughout the call.

As shown on page 7, we continued to have strong broad-based loan growth in the first quarter; our 15th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. Our core loan portfolio grew by $54.2 billion or 7% from a year ago and was up $914 million from the fourth quarter. Linked quarter commercial loan growth was driven by real estate construction and lease financing. Consumer loans grew slightly as growth in non-conforming mortgage, auto, security-based lending, and student loans was largely offset by pay-offs in the junior lien portfolio and seasonality in credit card.

On page 8 we highlight our loan portfolios that had strong year-over-year growth. C&I loans were up $31.9 billion or 13% from a year ago, with broad-based growth across most of our wholesale businesses. Core 1 - 4 family first mortgage loans grew $13 billion or 7% from a year ago reflecting continued growth in high quality non-conforming mortgages primarily jumbo loans. The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio remains strong with only 7 basis points of credit losses in the first quarter.

Credit card balances were up $4 billion or 15% from a year ago, benefiting from strong new account growth and the Dillard's portfolio acquisition in the fourth quarter. Auto loans were up $3.7 billion or 7% from last year. While we continued to benefit from the strong auto market, new originations were down 10% from a year ago, reflecting our continued risk in pricing discipline in a competitive market.

As you can see on page 9, we had $1.2 trillion of average deposits in the first quarter, up $97.5 billion from a year ago and up $25 billion from fourth quarter. Our average deposit cost was 9 basis points, consistent with the fourth quarter and down 2 basis points from a year ago. We successfully grew primary consumer checking customers by 5.7% from a year ago and primary small business and business banking checking customers increased 5.5%. Our ability to consistently grow primary checking customers is important because these customers have more interactions with us, have higher cross sell, and are more than twice as profitable as non-primary checking customers.

We grew net interest income on a tax equivalent basis by $396 million or 4% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in average earning assets, up $170 billion or 12%. Net interest income declined $190 million from fourth quarter, due to two fewer days in the first quarter and lower variable income. The net interest margin declined 9 basis points from the fourth quarter due to strong customer-driven deposit growth. This reduced the margin by 5 basis points but had minimal impact to net interest income.

Lower interest income from variable sources due to reduced loan fees and PCI loan recoveries decreased the margin by 3 basis points. Liquidity-related activity, which was not LCR-related but taken to demonstrate market access and the liquidity of our securities portfolio, reduced the margin by 1 basis point. All other balance sheet growth and repricing did not impact the margin in the first quarter.

Our balance sheet remained asset-sensitive and we're well-positioned to benefit from higher rates. We believe we can grow net interest income in 2015 compared with 2014, even if rates remain low as we demonstrated last year.

Total non-interest income increased $29 million from fourth quarter and grew $282 million from a year ago, up 3%. Trading gains increased $229 million from fourth quarter, primarily from higher customer accommodation trading, reflecting better markets in high grade, high yield and RMBS, as well as seasonality.

Mortgage banking revenue increased $32 million from the fourth quarter on higher origination volume, up $5 billion or 11%. 55% of originations were for refinancing, up from 40% in the fourth quarter, as rates declined. We ended the quarter with a $44 billion application pipeline, the highest pipeline since the second quarter of 2013. And we expect funding volumes to increase in the second quarter, given the size of the pipeline and the seasonal home buying that typically occurs during the second-quarter Spring buying season.

Our gain on sale ratio increased to 2.06% in first quarter, as pricing margins expanded, reflecting strong refinance volume and lenders priced to balance volumes and capacity. We currently expect the second quarter gain on sale ratio to be at the higher end of the range we've seen over the past five quarters, 140 basis points to 206 basis points.

Servicing income declined $162 million from the fourth quarter as MSR results declined $127 million, reflecting higher prepayment expectations associated with reductions in FHA mortgage insurance premiums. This valuation adjustment directly reduced our servicing results in the quarter.

As shown on page 12, expenses were down $140 million from the fourth quarter. Our first-quarter expenses included $452 million of seasonally higher employee benefits expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k )matching as well as $236 million for annual equity awards to retirement-eligible team members. These seasonally higher expenses were offset by lower salaries, reflecting two fewer days in the quarter, lower revenue-based incentive compensation and reduced outside professional services, equipment, travel and entertainment, and advertising expenses.

While we will not have the seasonally higher personnel expenses in the second quarter, there are certain expenses that will increase, including salary expense, reflecting higher day count and annual merit increases, and certain expenses that are typically lower in the first quarter such as outside professional services and advertising expenses are also expected to increase. Our efficiency ratio improved to 58.8% in the first quarter and we expect the efficiency ratio for the full year 2015 to remain within our targeted range of 55% to 59%.

Turning to our business segment starting on page 13. Community Banking earned $3.7 billion in the first quarter, down 5% from a year ago and up 7% from the fourth quarter. As I highlighted earlier, we had continued strong growth in primary consumer checking customers, up 5.7% from a year ago. Our broad-based and industry-leading distribution channels are one reason for this growth. While our customers actively use all of our channels, including more than 75% of our deposit customers visiting a banking store at least once within the last six months, mobile banking is growing the fastest. We had 14.9 million active mobile customers, up 19% from a year ago. Our customers are increasingly using this channel with mobile banking sessions up 38% in 2014, while customer usage of our stores has remained stable.

We also continued to successfully grow retail bank households. February was our highest monthly net gain of retail bank households in four years. These new households provide us with growth opportunities as we focus on meeting their financial needs through our diversified product line. An example of how we're capturing this opportunity is in our debit and credit card businesses with card fees up 11% from a year ago. Debit card purchase volume was up 8% and credit card purchase volume increased 16% from a year ago. Our credit card business continued to have strong new account growth and active account growth.

Wholesale Banking earned $1.8 billion in the first quarter, up 3% from a year ago and down 9% from fourth quarter. Loan growth continued to be strong with average loans up $35.7 billion or 12% from a year ago, with broad-based growth across many businesses. We're excited about our announcement last week regarding the purchase of $9 billion of commercial real estate mortgage loans from GE Capital. This is a portfolio of performing loans, primarily in the US, the United Kingdom and Canada, which are active lending markets for us. We also agreed to provide $4 billion of financing to Blackstone Mortgage Trust for their purchase of a commercial mortgage portfolio. We expect these transactions to close in the second and third quarters of this year. This is an excellent example of how the combination of our balance sheet strength, the expertise of our team members and our relationship focus positions us to capture opportunities for growth, both organically and through acquisition.

While we remain disciplined in deposit pricing, we continued to benefit from strong deposit growth, with average core deposits up $44.4 billion or 17% from a year ago. Wholesale banking also had broad-based fee growth, up 11% from a year ago, with many of our diversified businesses growing at double digits. Investment banking fees grew 44% from a year ago, and we increased our market share to 4.9%. This growth reflected continued improvement in our equity capital markets and investment-grade originations. Treasury and management revenue grew 11%, reflecting new product sales and repricing.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned a record $561 million in the first quarter, up 18% from a year ago and up 9% from fourth quarter. WBR's pretax margin was 24% in the first quarter, close to their long term target of 25%. These strong results reflected 8% revenue growth from a year ago, driven by 12% growth in net interest income and 8% growth in asset-based fees.

The partnership between WBR and Community Banking has been successful, generating over $1 billion a month in closed referred investment assets. During the past year, 58% of referred assets were from new investment clients of Wells Fargo. We're also benefiting from increasing our licensed private bankers in our banking stores by 15% from a year ago. This partnership has also contributed to the growth in brokerage advisory assets, which were $435 billion, up 12% from a year ago.

WBR's strong loan growth continued, up 14% from a year ago, the seventh consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. This growth was driven primarily by an increase in high quality non-conforming mortgage loans and security-based lending.

Turning to page 16, credit quality in the first quarter remained strong with our net charge-off ratio declining to 33 basis points of average loans. Non-performing assets have declined for 10 consecutive quarters and were down $618 million from fourth quarter. Non-accrual loans declined $338 million and foreclosed assets declined $280 million. The reserve release was $100 million in the first quarter, down $150 million from the fourth quarter and down $400 million from a year ago.

Let me update you on our energy portfolio. We had $18.5 billion of oil and gas loans at the end of the first quarter or 2% of total loans outstanding. The size of this portfolio was relatively stable from fourth quarter, up only $65 million. Approximately 55% of our portfolio was in the exploration and production or upstream sector. We've been an industry leader in the energy sector for over 40 years, and we take a disciplined approach to not only underwriting but also managing these loans and relationships. Our teams constantly monitor and evaluate this portfolio on a loan by loan basis.

In the first quarter, we performed an even greater review of each loan in this portfolio and in March we began the Spring redetermination process for our reserve-based loans. We realized minimal credit losses related to energy loans in the first quarter, and our allowance at the end of the first quarter contemplated the inherent credit losses associated with our oil and gas exposure.

Our capital levels remain strong, with our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the Advanced Approach, fully phased-in, at 10.53% in the first quarter. Last month, the Federal Reserve and the OCC announced that we may begin using the advanced approaches capital framework starting in the second quarter. This approval did not include stipulations requiring us to increase our current advanced approach RWA.

We returned $3.3 billion to shareholders in the first quarter through dividends and net share repurchases. Our common shares outstanding declined by 7 million shares in the first quarter reflecting 48 million shares purchased during the quarter, partially offset by 41 million shares issued, primarily through employee benefit plans which are seasonally high in the first quarter.

In addition, we entered into a $750 million forward repurchase contract that settled earlier this month for 14 million shares. We expect to reduce our common shares outstanding through share repurchases throughout the remainder of the year. As John noted earlier on the call, our 2015 capital plan included a proposed increase to our second-quarter dividend to $0.375 per common share, subject to Board approval.

In summary, the first quarter demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model as shown by the results we highlight on slide 19. Through our consistent focus on serving our customers in the real economy, we have realized growth across many of our businesses that will help drive future momentum. We've grown primary consumer checking and small business and business banking checking customers. We've added new credit card accounts, increased debit card purchase volume, and achieved strong retail bank household growth. Mortgage originations have grown, commercial card volume has increased, and we've grown investment banking market share. Treasury management fees have grown at a double-digit rate, we've increased Assets Under Management, and we have higher retail brokerage managed account assets.

I'm optimistic that our diversified business model will continue to generate opportunities for growth, and will enable us to continue to invest in our businesses. We will now be happy to answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Yes, good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Erika.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Thank you so much for giving us the detail rundown in terms of how you're thinking about your liquidity strategy. And I also appreciate that the $28.4 billion in deposit growth came from consumer and escrow.

But taking a step back, of the $1.2 trillion in [puritan] deposits, how much would you classify as non-operational corporate? And I guess we're just wondering, is adopting a similar strategy as your other large bank peers and non-operating deposits, will that be able to alleviate some of the liquidity pressure on the NIM without much give up on the LCR?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's a good question. And I'd say the answer is, we're not impacted in the same way as some of the other banks who have gone to the measures that they've announced to discourage those types of deposits.

We're not constrained by the leverage ratio at this point. We're not meaningfully impacted by institutional non-operational deposits and our GFIB score.

And so, we're serving institutional customers, and in some cases, taking their deposits if it makes sense in the context of the bigger relationship. But we're not in the same position as the couple of banks who have had to go out of their way to drive down either leverage, or change their leverage outcome, or drive down their GFIB score.

So we will -- we're thinking about those relationships in a way where we can do the most good for Wells Fargo shareholders. So if other people are charging more or are consolidating business activity to be willing to take those deposits, there's an opportunity for us to improve our business with those same types of customers. But it's not quite as urgent, because we don't have those problems.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: I guess a better way to think about it is, a lot of this excess deposit growth is going to be positive for your LCR and NSFR given that it looks like it's mostly retail. So low out flow, high ASF factor type of deposits.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That's correct.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Erica, the other thing that I know you're aware of, we love the entire relationship. So surely on the retail side, but it's even true on the wholesale side.

When we become the primary account holder or think of it as a financial partner with a customer, and the deposits lead with that, good things happen. So that's all part of serving customers broadly and deeply.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: And just as a follow-up and I'll step back. You've been very consistent in terms of falling in that 55% to 59% efficiency ratio range, and you're consistent in terms of your forward guidance. I guess, again, given some of the other large bank guidance and efficiency out there, will it take rates for Wells Fargo to move further down to the 55% portion of that range?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well that would be one way to do it. An increase in rates, which would have an increase in revenue without a lot of associated expense, would do that. There are other ways to move a little bit lower in the range, depending on the mix of where revenue comes from and the initiatives that we have to manage expenses.

But we're comfortable in the range, we're at the higher end of the range today which is still an industry-leading level. And these other folks who are enacting their efficiency plans are coming toward us, so we're going to keep doing what we're doing.

JOHN STUMPF: But we're not standing still. We watch every expense around here. As we repurpose dollars, we save into things we have to invest in.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you for taking my questions.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Bill Carcache with Nomura.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Thank you, good morning. Can you put into context for us whether the investment opportunities that you discussed that you see before you at the moment are -- do you see them as growing or are they getting harder to identify as you look ahead at say the next 12 months versus the last 12 months?

And then relating to these investment opportunities, how should we be thinking about the trajectory of your payout ratio longer term? As you generate more capital going forward, is it fair just to view your payout ratio as being inversely related to your investment opportunities?

I guess I'm asking from the perspective of this general overall view that higher payout ratios are better. But I'm wondering if that's how we should be thinking about it for Wells Fargo, given that your capital position is largely optimized and you're not sitting on a lot of excess capital at the moment? So when and how we should be thinking about that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So by investment opportunities, are you referring to our deployment of liquidity or are you referring to the GE Capital case, where we're buying a portfolio of loans with customers?

BILL CARCACHE: I think the GE Capital case and the other RWA growth for attractive return generation.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So serving our customers and deploying our capital in that way is the first call on our capital. We're trying to grow earning assets with customers with cross sell benefit, and create new and bigger relationships with customers that we have.

So it certainly, a certain amount of that factored into our capital plans so that we're imagining doing that while returning capital to shareholders at a high level. But if the landscape were to shift so that the opportunity became more meaningful for us to originate more assets, and in some cases acquire more assets that are good for us, then I think we'd be looking long and hard at that.

JOHN STUMPF: As far as the return on capital to shareholders, I think our record speaks for itself. And I know John mentioned it in his comments, that we very much appreciate the investment our shareholders have made in us and that we're stewards of their capital. And returning as much of that as prudent is what we plan on doing and want to do.

There's no reason for us just to keep adding capital. On the other hand, first call is to grow the business, as John mentioned, and we will return as much, as I mentioned, as we prudently can. As you just saw recently with our increase in our dividend, or at least the ability to increase the dividend.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And the trick, of course, is to only take advantage of investment opportunities that are capable of generating the kind of return on equity that we've been generating. And to keep distributions up to keep our capital level at the point, we've used the term optimized, so that we're not carrying excess capital that's harder to produce that return on. That's the balance.

BILL CARCACHE: That's very helpful. My last question is on a dynamic that we're seeing with loan growth outpacing deposit growth across the banking system as a whole. But for the larger banks, including Wells Fargo, I guess we're still seeing deposit growth outpacing loan growth.

I was hoping that you could just talk about what you think may be driving that, and do you see anything on the horizon that you think could change that? I guess in other words, just lead to loan growth outpacing deposit growth at the large banks as well?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well I think every large bank has a slightly different business mix, and so whatever accounts for their loan growth is going to be unique to them. In our case, because we've done such a good job at attracting retail households and attracting wholesale relationships that are bringing meaningful liquidity in, deposit growth has been outpacing loan growth for some time.

And then we take a big move in loan growth, which could include utilization of existing credit facilities or incremental funded loans in order to catch up with that. We'd have to be in a higher economic growth environment I think for loan growth to get into the 9% range, which is where deposits have been.

Now, if we're buying portfolios of loans, like we are in the next couple of quarters, that will certainly have an impact on that. But that's not probably something that you would project into the future at that same pace. So I don't see that turning around in the near term.

BILL CARCACHE: Got it.

JOHN STUMPF: In fact, these are some of the strongest deposit growth years I've seen in my 30 some years with the Company. And I think it's partly because of the way we work together as a Company, our distribution, the convenience we provide for customers, our focus on this. So it's been very strong, and all signs are that we'll continue to have a very strong deposit growth profile.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: And at 9 basis points, it's not as though we're overpaying.

JOHN STUMPF: No, exactly.

BILL CARCACHE: That's very helpful. Thank you for taking my questions.

JOHN STUMPF: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of John McDonald with Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hello, good morning. John, we wanted to ask -- just go back to the efficiency ratio. Is it reasonable to expect as long as rates stay low and credit is as good as it is right now, you're likely to stay at the upper end of your targeted range?

I think, John Shrewsberry, you said last call, you'd be okay staying at the higher end in this kind of environment, and is there any expenses that are still cyclically elevated? Maybe just give a little more color there.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, we're continuing to -- we're always looking for ways to be, as John said, as efficient as we can, and to make the most of every dollar we spend. At the same time, now is the time when there are big demands in information security and compliance and risk management. And so if we're finding dollars on the efficiency side of the ledger, we're reinvesting them either in products and services for our customers or in becoming a best-in-class across all risk management aspects.

And so, that's probably going to keep us here at the higher end of the range, unless we have a break out in some revenue category or we have an increase in rates, which is fine. At 58%, 59% it's still an attractive level to be performing at, and we're improving our Company every day.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And on [TLECs], John, is there some thoughts that you could share in terms of preparing for TLEC? The rules obviously aren't finished yet. But are you taking steps to prepare for your assessment of the most likely proposal that you'd see on that front?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. So we've got a variety of analyses of most likely or best case worst case, and they look a lot like what's out there in the public domain. We're going to end up issuing more term debt during the phase-in period, and we'll probably start in the relatively near term to leg into it so that we don't end up with an enormous overhang that has to be issued in a short amount of time. There's still a lot to know. Go ahead.

JOHN MCDONALD: I was just going to say is preferred as well if you could [wary] just go on preferred relative to where you think you might need to be.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well there's a little bit of preferred left to leg into our capital plan, but not much. And of course, there might be more if there's RWA growth and the whole capital stack expands pro rata. I think we're at 149 basis points of preferred today and our target is 150, so we're pretty close there. But if we grow RWA, then there's an opportunity for more of that.

The big job to do is going to be on the senior unsecured side. And so we need to know what the total quantum is as the result of where we end up in the [16% to 20%] range as a base. We need to know what's included and excluded, and there's still things on that list that are being resolved both in the international and domestic standard. And then we need to know the exact phase-in period, which we think we know.

So when you look at those calculations with what we have maturing or otherwise running off. And then as I mentioned growth in RWA, that will lead us to what our annual issuance has to be to get there on time when the rule is final.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES LLC: Hello, good morning. John, I was wondering if you could provide any color to help us understand. On the new loan purchases, is there any way to put in context either the yield of the portfolio relative to the existing yield of the Wells Fargo book? And do you bring over expenses with it, or is it largely just interest income coming over as has happened in your prior acquisitions of loan books?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So the yield on the portfolio looks a lot like our commercial real estate portfolio today, because the loans look a lot like our commercial real estate loan portfolio today. And it's not coming over with material expense. So I think we probably will have to add some small number of incremental people.

But we have, as you know, we're the largest commercial real estate lender in the US today. We've got a big seasoned team all over the country that's close to borrowers and close to properties, and that's the core team that were managing the portfolio. If we're adding people, it's in the tens or maybe dozens of incremental professionals in order to help with asset management, but not a big number in the context of the size of the portfolio.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then as a follow-up, with regards to potential other portfolios that GE had talked about, given your positioning in terms of helping them through the structure as you mentioned. Do you guys get a different look, or have you already taken a look at other parts of the book and this is just the first tranche of what could be more? Or what's your general perception of the opportunity set that could come forth for Wells Fargo?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: They're a great customer, and we're trying to continue to help them and work together like we did here. They had mentioned in their announcement that there is more to do, and we'll go through in any way that we can be helpful to them in ways that are good for our shareholders as well.

So there is opportunity there. I can't really be specific about it, because there are competitive processes at work and this is their balance sheet after all. But we will definitely be working closely together to see if there are other ways that we can help them.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then one little follow-up on your credit comments. Understanding that energy is baked into this quarter and that you still met release reserves, can you give us the pushes and pulls within the credit buckets in terms of how much more improvement do you continue to see on the rest of the books, ex the energy side? Or have we really just gotten to the end of the natural improvement?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well there is still a meaningful improvement in first mortgage, in particular. You've seen charge-offs, they continue to come down. NPLs are down, the portfolio is performing very, very well.

So as a result, there was room to take stock of what we think the issues are with the energy portfolio and end up with a net reserve release. A modest one, but a net reserve release. So it's quarter by quarter, and we'll look at it at the end of the second quarter and see what the numbers tell us. But things did continue to improve.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Ken, I think we should also add that while there's still more improvement to be had on residential, on the other hand, our commercial side has been close to or even in a recovery position. That won't last forever.

So there's always pushes and pulls here, but overall, credit is really doing well here. And that's an industry phenomenon, but especially at Wells.

KEN USDIN: Understood. Thank you, guys.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Scott Siefers with Sandler O'Neill & Partners.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Morning, guys. Just a couple quick questions.

So, John, the tax rate has kind of bumped around, and this quarter obviously had the discrete issue that you called out. But what's the appropriate FTE tax rate to use going forward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: The best way to think about the remainder of the year tax rate is to take the $359 million discrete tax benefit out of the first quarter, and then recalculate the tax rate. Which would get you to the mid 32%s.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Yes, exactly. Okay, thank you. And then the other one, when you had been talking about the mobile growth, you had noted also that branch use has not been declining. Just from your guys' perspective, who's coming in and what kind of stuff are they doing?

And just as you look at overall branch traffic and the need for branches, is it a good thing that people are still coming in and that it makes for an easier more direct cross sell? Or is it more of a negative in that you have to make mobile investments, but you can't really leverage via fewer branches necessarily? Or as much branch reduction as you might hope, how do you think about that dynamic?

JOHN STUMPF: Here's how we think about that. We start out with the customer, and customers tell us branches are important. We hear that every day.

And while our other channels are growing, in fact, if you think about the 12,000 consumer interactions we have a minute in this Company, 80% or so are what I would call digitally supported. Either at say online or a mobile, and mobile being our fastest growing, but our stores, our 6,200 stores, are still busy.

75% of our customers come into a store once every six months. Even millenials or our most advanced on the digital side visit our stores, visit ATM's, and about 85% of our growth sales happen there providing solutions. So it doesn't mean we have to build 5,000 or 6,000 square foot stores.

As you probably know and we've talked in the past, we've tried some different concepts where we have 1,000 square foot stores that at night become an ATM vestibule, in the daytime the walls fold in and become a full functioning digitally enabled store. So we're doing that kind of thing.

But our most loyal customer today is not necessarily the one who has the most products. It's the customer who does the most things with us, uses the most channels most often. So we're increasingly becoming an information provider. We're in the information business as much as we're on the retail side in the financial services business.

So this is really about connecting all the channels, not about trying to drive customers into what's cheaper for us. That's not how we think about that. We think about what's best for them, and branches still remain an enormously important part in that.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay, that's good color. I appreciate it. Thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Joe.

JOE MORFORD: First, compared to the fourth quarter, the commercial loan growth was a little slower outside of real estate construction. Was some of that seasonal or were there other factors in play there? And just in general, how do you feel about the current levels of demand on the commercial set?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So it big Q4 to Q1 changes that we closed at the sale of the student loan portfolio in Q4, which created a big C&I loan that happened toward the end of the quarter. So the step off there was from a pretty elevated place. That has an impact in the calculation.

I think in the first quarter, we feel good. Pipelines look pretty good. We talked to the leadership of the business and people are active, so from one quarter to the next it's tough to tell.

The year-over-year trend in C&I loans is really, really healthy. And then that step off calculation is a little disadvantageous to the math, but business is good.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And then I guess the other question was curious what your early read is on the Spring selling season this year, and are you starting to see any signs of return of the first time home buyer?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Joe, since we're a big retail originator, that's obviously a big opportunity for us. As your question would suggest that the first time home buyer had been a bit absent in this recovery compared to what it's been in previous recoveries. But I think some of the work that the industry did, along with the GSEs in understanding put back risk and transfer of risk, makes credit a little bit more available.

There's a little bit more activity going on. Wage increases and increases in employment have been helpful, affordability is really -- it's a good time to buy a home, so you never know. We're hopeful we're going into the quarter with the highest pipeline, $44 billion, than we've had in a couple of years. So we're well positioned and we'll have to see what the numbers show, but we're on our front feet here.

JOE MORFORD: Sounds good. Thanks very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA LIMITED: Hello. Can you hear me?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, hello, Mike, good morning.

MIKE MAYO: Hey can you talk a little bit more on the housing backlog? How does it look by region, and what are the areas of strength?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's hard to say. The mortgage business that we're looking at right now, we're talking about national statistics.

I guess obviously when we're talking about affordability, and particularly for first time home buyers or people who are most likely to benefit from the easing of the credit box that John just referred to. They're probably would have the hardest time in the hottest markets, which, no surprise are coastal markets in big cities sitting here in San Francisco and many of you in New York. So things are more affordable in the middle of the country.

That wouldn't come as any surprise. Most of what we're referring to are just the national pipeline and statistics. And as far as I can tell, the production is pretty balanced from our various mortgage offices.

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, just a couple things that you probably already know. As John mentioned, there are certain markets where the biggest challenge for housing is the lack of inventory. It's still, the entire Bay Area, is bid market where you bid for houses.

My daughter and son-in-law bought a house recently. You have to write a letter and tell them how nice you are, and how many children you have. And a nice letter plus a lot of money will get you in the bidding process.

That's not true of course everywhere. But I was in Miami recently, and that markets -- it's stunning how that market is really doing so well, and you would have looked back six years ago and you couldn't imagine what's going on today.

So it just depends, and it's a bit about what's happening in those local economies. In the Bay Area, of course, with what's happening with in migration, technology, and so forth has really created a lot of activity here. So it's a bit of a mixed bag, but all-in all, we're optimistic about the second quarter here.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thank you.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you, Mike.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. You talk very positive about your mobile banking, your online banking, which I think everybody is having the same trend. But I know you opened a couple express branches or whatever you want to call them in the Washington DC area.

How are they working out? Are you planning to expand those type of branches?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. The first one there was NoMa, north of Massachusetts, and we had a second now we're doing a couple others in other markets. But I don't want to suggest for a minute that you'll see 6,200 NoMas with 1,000 square feet across the franchise.

I think it's a bit of everything, meaning that there is some hub-and-spoke where you have a larger established branch or a store that's been there for many years. And then you have others around that maybe wouldn't be as large. You have some like the case in north of Massachusetts where you couldn't get 5,000 square feet and 1,000 square feet is optimal for that market.

So, this is really about looking at our distribution, and we call actually health of your distribution. Are you in the right location, with the right hours, the right people, the right footprint? And does the store or the branch work in concert with all the other channels of distribution?

So customers can start transactions at one place, finish another place. Is there ubiquity? Is there one version of the truth around information, and how customers serve themselves or want service from us?

So it's a whole bunch of things that really matter in this, and I think the proof in the pudding is our ability to grow primary checking accounts. I've never seen growth at 5.7%, and like John mentioned, it's not that we overpay on deposits, 9 basis points. This is the magic of how this thing all works together.

PAUL MILLER: And also over by NoMa, you also opened up one in the Safeway. I think it was a Safeway out there. I know a lot of people moving away from supermarket banking. I don't think you were a big player in that area, but is that working out also?

JOHN STUMPF: At one-time, this goes back a number of years, in 1998 when the former NorWest decided the family I came from and Wells merged, Wells was hugely indexed, over indexed to grocery stores. And then we've been adjusting that since that time, but again, we think of it as density within a market.

And sometimes to fill up that density, a freestanding ATM machines, sometimes it's in store. Sometimes it's a NoMa 1,000 square foot. So it all fits into what we call the S curve, and maybe I'll just digress for a second.

If a community has, let's say, 500 banking locations. That's optimal for a community. And you have 20% of those, 100, and that's the optimal amount, you'll actually get more than 20% of the business, you'll get 25% of the business. Because certain compares will have 10% of the stores, and they'll get 8% of the business. So there's a magic to the density and where the density is and how it works together, and that's just part of our learnings after many, many years.

So sometimes grocery stores fit into that, sometimes they don't. It surely would not be a lead only strategy, but as an augment, it's very powerful.

PAUL MILLER: Great. Thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Nancy, hello.

NANCY BUSH: I have a question for you, John S Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF: Oh, yes you've got to -- there's two John S' around here.

NANCY BUSH: John S doesn't go any more. The risk -- there have been several articles recently, one a couple of days ago I think maybe in the Wall Street Journal or somewhere, about the changing risk profile at Wells Fargo.

And they look at increased percentage of revenues coming from investment banking, and assign a risk premium to that. Could you just address the whole issue, and just frame out for us how big you want investment banking and/or capital markets activities to be there?

JOHN STUMPF: It's a good question. We think of customer, Nancy, and I'll get to the specific question. But the way we think about the business here is around relationships.

Relationships with team members. My 11 direct reports have 28 years with the Company. We think of relationships with our customers, our communities, our shareholders.

Buffet has been an owner of ours for 25 years, or we love long term things. So as it gets to investment banking activities, we think of that as another solution, another product, another service. And most of the revenue that comes from that business is from existing customers who have been doing business for a long, long time.

When you are the number one middle market bank, when you have leadership positions in energy and ag and commercial real estate, and you do business with 80% plus or 90% of the Fortune 500, you're going to get opportunities to serve customers deeply and broadly. And if that means that through our skills, and our people, and our value proposition that customers, corporate customers, want us to help with valuation, issuing debt, issuing equity, wonderful.

If we're not good enough to get that and it goes someplace else, we just have to work harder. So I don't really look at lead tables.

I guess I read where -- in fact, I read for the first time, when I read the Journal that we were number seven or eight or nine, I can't remember the number, I could have cared less, absolutely cared less. I only care we do the right thing for customers, and if that means we're moving up, terrific.

If that means that others are growing faster because they're taking risks or doing things that don't make sense to us, God bless them. So that's how we think about it. Not as a standalone business, as one more way to help customers succeed.

NANCY BUSH: So I guess that it may or may not grow?

JOHN STUMPF: Exactly. Just based on our skills and the market availability.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I've got a couple of data points that I'd give you, Nancy, just to help you dimension it. But if you look at Wells Fargo compared to the peer group on the risks that we run that we report in our 10-Qs and 10K, we've got a more modest set of trading businesses with a very low risk profile. At least as measured by VAR, which is the popular public version of that.

Our investment banking fees, while we're thrilled and happy to have them, amount to $2 billion a year or something like that on a $90 billion revenue base. We've got -- I think this quarter we were in the $420 million to $430 million range for trading revenue, which is appropriate for the needs that we have for customer accommodation and for managing our own risks.

But still, in the scheme of a $1.7 trillion balance sheet, the equity that we carry, and $90 billion worth of revenue, it's just a couple of the 90 plus businesses that we referred to. And it's not imagined to grow in an outsized way from where it is today.

We're always trying to do more, serve customers better. We have great people. But imagine if we doubled the size of the business over some period of time while the Firm grew at its steady organic rate, we'd still be in a relatively modest percentage of the overall Firm.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Nancy, the risk really would be if you ever saw where the market is shrinking, let's say, in investment banking or capital markets. And we're outsized growing because we're taking on risks with customers relationship that we have not known, that's where you see the imbalance. And that's, again, just not who we are.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. The second question for John number two. In mortgage banking, if you could just repeat what you said about gain on sale. I was writing as fast as I could but I missed the number, and where you expect it to be in the second quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So the first quarter was at about 2%, a little more 2.06%, which is the high end of the five quarter range. And the second quarter is operating in that neighborhood. So we feel like we're going to be at the high end of the range in the second quarter as well.

JOHN STUMPF: There's a lot more discipline this time around, Nancy, with gain on sale margins as you well know because you've been around, you've seen this industry over a long time. And that's a healthy thing.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: Just to follow-up on the mortgage competitive landscape here. It's interesting, we saw JP Morgan out earlier today with a big increase in correspondent originations versus a year ago.

And I think maybe you've been a little more consistent in that business, so maybe it's just some ebbs and flows. But if you could just remind us on the correspondent and maybe talk about the mix you're going after right now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't know if it's a mix of going after as much as a mix of what's coming in. We've been very consistent, as you said.

What happens when rates pop down and refis spike up is that our own servicing portfolio results in a lot more applications. Because the easiest thing for somebody to do when they want to take advantage of a rate rally is call Wells Fargo, because we probably already have their mortgage. And so that's going to have a bigger influence on a strategy that we might have around correspondent.

And I think you can see in the supplement that retail was $28 billion and correspondent $20 billion of this quarter's activity. And that's not an inconsistent blend versus the last several quarters.

There are more correspondents these days, as you know, that go direct to the agencies. Because the agencies have opened the window to them, and that's also a lower margin business for us. So all things being equal, we're happy to be a retail lender but we do serve a big correspondent constituency.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Matt, if you go back in time, we actually had a larger share of the correspondent, because there was a number of compares who backed away walked away from that market. Who come and go from time to time. So that will ebb and flow as participants either stay in or get out or whatever.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then just circling back on expenses. And I guess I'm focused on, call it, the people costs, the salaries, commissions, incentive comp, employee benefit.

If you sum those three lines, it's up I think 6%, 7% versus a year ago. I know there's the trading nuance that we need to adjust for, but is there impact of the mortgage pipeline impact on those numbers as you staff up in anticipation of a higher volume? Or I'm trying to reconcile why that growth might be so much versus revenue and some of the categories and fees.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, I wouldn't look toward mortgage. I would look toward risk management and investments that we're making and along those lines.

The beauty about mortgage in the first quarter was that this refi pipeline helps use the capacity that we would have needed in the fourth quarter and we anticipate needing in the second quarter. So it was a greater level of utilization.

For better or worse, the changes in year-over-year are a variety of other things. Including business mix, by the way, in terms of how commissions get paid and other revenue-related incentives. But it would be that plus investments made in compliance and risk management, cyber and information, security, things like that. We have the best people, and those are not inexpensive.

MATT O'CONNOR: Any way to size that either on an absolute basis or versus say a year ago? Just that overall bucket of, call it, non-revenue related costs?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't have an accurate number. I think we've talked about $100 million a quarter.

A couple quarters ago as having been an observable increase in that category, and it's not any lower than that today. Maybe we'll see if next time around we can put a finer point on that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You're welcome.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Your next question comes from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thanks very much. John, just to follow-up on your energy-related comments, and I appreciate the detail you provided. But can you just clarify, was there in fact any increase in general or specific reserves for that portfolio, or any downward migration, internal risk ratings, or anything of that nature?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: There was a little bit of downward migration. Not enough to meaningfully drive the reserve. There's a little bit of an increase in NPAs, but negligible. And we realized minimal losses in the quarter in the energy portfolio.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: But the change in reserve reflects all of what the actual migration and the actual observation of performance in the energy portfolio.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Understood. And one of the other institutions indicated that based on the forward price curve, they would expect some of the pressure on the E&P sector to subside. Is that a view that you share?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I'd have to say yes. We're in the middle of our Spring redetermination process for the borrowing based loans, so we'll have a better feeling afterwards. We have noticed a lot of capital raising going on in the space.

We talked last quarter about the risk to our investment banking income around energy related firms, because we're large in that space. And we had a great first quarter in energy and investment banking, because lots of equity was raised, lots of firms went to the debt market to turn themselves out.

So that's a very positive sign there's people taking steps, and changing their balance sheets, and improving their risk profiles. So that and the combination of where the forward curve demonstrates the energy prices might be going is helpful, but that's, again, that's reflected in our early view of our allowance. And it will be better informed once we finish our borrowing base redeterminations.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: And typically when is that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: During this quarter.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Your next question comes from the line of Marty Mosby with Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Thank you. I wanted to drill into the mortgage banking a little bit more. In that when we managed ours, and we had this recognition or origination at close and not interest rate lock. Whenever prepayments kicked in, servicing income was compressed as you had to write down the servicing for the expected prepayments.

But origination income wasn't at its full run with refi. So in my mind, I was just trying to look at this first quarter as the launching pad going into a much stronger, and not to quantify that, but just a stronger return on revenues and mortgage from that timing effect.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Actually, I think that's a pretty astute observation. Because we would be valuing the MSR on the prepayment expectations, which reflect that lower interest rate. And we have been taking the gain on the pipeline and what's locked, and insulated the close in the second quarter.

MARTY MOSBY: Two follow-ups to that thought process. 71 basis points on the servicing portfolio has to be close to an all-time low. Are we getting to the point that even with prepayments, we wouldn't need much more reevaluation given that you've already incorporated a lot of the expected prepayments into the current evaluation?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's a good observation, but it's tough to say. We look at that calculation regularly, but in connection with our preparation of our financial statements on a quarterly basis. And take everything into account that's available then, and that's when we strike the value.

MARTY MOSBY: And then lastly, when you convert your unclosed pipeline of $44 billion into what would be a normal pull through into originations in the next quarter, I guess it's something like $75 billion to $80 billion. Does that seem about right in a sense that that's the kind of run rate you're getting into at this point?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Tough to know. We don't know what hasn't happened yet, and that's what's going to the applications that will be received and pulled through in the quarter. So, too early to speculate.

MARTY MOSBY: The good thing is that half of it's already done in the unclosed pipeline, so you at least know that part.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: That's right.

MARTY MOSBY: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of John Pancari with Evercore ISI.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: Thanks for taking my questions. A quick question on the margin.

Wanted to get some color on the 13 basis point decline in commercial loan yields, I know you indicated that was partly impacted by fees. Did the lower loan fees account for all of that, or how much of it was downward pressure on yields from pricing pressure?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's more PCI loan recoveries and lower loan fees than competitive pricing pressure. So those things that we call the variable components of interest income are harder to predict. And when a loan gets resolved that's been sitting in work out, sometimes it comes through the margin line.

And then if a loan prepays or there's loan fee hung up in its carrying value, then that sometimes comes through interest income as well. It's those types of items that are tough to plan for, tough to budget. And in this particular quarter, we're lower than the prior quarters.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. And then how does that play into your margin outlook? Is it fair to assume still mid single digit basis points compression per quarter as we move through 2015?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's too tough to call, because it depends on what happens with deposit growth. It depends on what happens with loan growth, and then other investments that we make in the securities portfolio. That's what's going to drive it.

It's lead by what happens to deposit growth. And, of course, if there were a move in interest rates, that would have an impact as well. We're not trying to forecast it in this instance.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, all right.

JOHN STUMPF: Our real focus is on generating growth in net interest income, and the margin is more the result not the reason.

JOHN PANCARI: Right. Okay. And then on that front then, John, I guess if you could just talk a little bit about loan growth expectations.

I know you gave some good color on what you're seeing on C&I, but CRE you saw still declines in your total CRE book. Wanted to get some thoughts around a sustained inflection in that portfolio organically. And then, is it also fair to assume that the loan growth overall should remain in the mid single digit range at this point?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Tough to call, because it depends on the mix. We've got a variety of commercial and consumer asset types here that each have their own market and cyclical dynamics. I think we expect cards were probably at a seasonal low in the first quarter. So between seasonality and issuing new cards, that business probably grows.

Auto, we've kept -- its grown, but kept relatively stable. It's gotten to be a more competitive market, and we've picked our spots, I think, a little bit more delicately.

In commercial real estate, it's going to be tough to spot the organic component of it. Because the purchase of the GE portfolio and this incremental loan to Blackstone Mortgage Trust is going to have a big impact in the second and the third Quarters.

But if I'd add anything to that, it's that now the competitive dynamic in commercial real estate lending is a little bit different because a big competitor is exiting the business. So that probably means something for us organically. If that's helpful.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, thank you. And then my last question is just on the credit side. The oil and gas reserve post, what you did this quarter, can you quantify where that reserve stands right now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We don't call it out specifically. We capture the whole portfolio in our overall allowance for loan losses, and feel that that is absolutely adequate for the loan book that we have. Which incidentally, has never been better overall. Oil and gas loans are approximately 2% to the total portfolio.

JOHN PANCARI: Right. Okay, thanks again for taking my questions.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay, this concludes our call, so thanks. First of all, I want to say thank you to all 265,000 team members for a very, very good first quarter, and thanks for all of you on the line. We will see you next quarter. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150416eb4e000xd
  


 HD
 Q4  2014 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,183 words
   PD
14 January 2015
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©015 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome, everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf; and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss fourth-quarter results and answer your questions. Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning and Happy New Year to everyone. Thank you for joining us today. We just completed another outstanding year at Wells Fargo. We generated record earnings, produced strong deposit and loan growth, grew the number of customers we serve, improved credit quality, enhanced our strong risk management practices, strengthened our capital and liquidity levels, and rewarded our shareholders by increasing our dividend and buying back more shares.

Our achievements during 2014 demonstrated the benefit of our diversified business model and our continued focus on the real economy. Let me share just some of our accomplishments during the past year. We generated earnings of $23 billion and earnings per share of $4.10, both up 5% from the prior year.

We grew both revenue and pretax pre-provision profit. We had strong broad-based loan growth. Our core loan portfolio increased by $60 billion, or 8%. Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong consumer and balanced growth with total deposits up $89 billion, or 8%. And we grew the number of primary consumer checking customers by 5.2%.

Our credit performance continued to be very strong with net charge-offs down $1.6 billion, and our net charge-off ratio declining to just 35 basis points for the year. Our capital levels increased even as we returned more capital to shareholders. We returned $12.5 billion to our stockholders through dividends and net share repurchases, up 74% from a year ago.

While we serve our customers throughout the world, 97% of our revenue comes from the United States, and there have been many signs of strength in the US economy. GDP growth accelerated during 2014 and may be even stronger in 2015.

Last year was the strongest year of job growth in 15 years and December was the 50th consecutive month of job creation, unprecedented in US history. Consumer confidence is at its highest level since the peak of the last economic expansion. Homeownership remains an aspiration for most Americans and recent developments such as the announced reduction in FHA premiums, GSE clarification on repurchase rules and changes in GSE lending guidelines should provide some benefit to the housing market where affordability remains attractive.

While lower oil prices have created volatility in the financial markets, America as a whole is a net consumer of energy, and American households will benefit from the decline in energy prices, which is positive for the US economy. I believe the improvement in the economy, the strength of our balance sheet, the diversity of our businesses and the continued commitment of our team members to meet our customers' financial needs will provide Wells Fargo with many opportunities in the year ahead. John Shrewsberry, our Chief Financial Officer will now provide more details on our fourth-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Wells Fargo had another strong quarter, earning $5.7 billion and $1.02 in EPS in the fourth-quarter. Our results included continued strong loan and deposit growth that was diversified across our businesses, and credit quality continued to reflect the benefit of our ongoing risk discipline.

Our capital levels remain strong, even as we returned $3.9 billion to shareholders in the fourth-quarter through common stock dividends and net share repurchases. Slide 3 highlights our strong full-year results that John discussed at the beginning of the call, including increased revenue and pre-tax, pre-provision profit, strong loan and deposit growth, higher earnings and increasing our net payout ratio to 57%.

Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income in the fourth-quarter. The benefit of our diversified business model is that we have over 90 businesses that performed differently based on interest rates and the economic environment.

While the balance between spread and fee income has remained consistent over time, the drivers of fee income have varied. For example, over the past five years mortgage banking as a share of total fee income has been as high as 28%. But because of the decline in mortgage refinancing activity, mortgage banking fees have declined as expected and represented 15% of fee income in the fourth-quarter.

However other businesses have benefited from current market conditions. Our trust and investment fees have steadily increased over the past five years and were 36% to fee income in the fourth-quarter. These examples demonstrate the benefit of our diversification and how our business mix enables us to focus on meeting our customers' financial needs while retaining our risk discipline.

Let me highlight some key drivers of our fourth-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective, starting on page 5. I will discuss the drivers of our strong loan and deposit growth later in the call.

Short-term investments in fed funds sold declined $3.5 billion from third quarter due to the deployment of liquidity into loans and investment securities. This was the first time since the fourth quarter of 2011 that we've had a linked-quarter decline.

Investment securities increased $24 billion from the third quarter due to $35 billion of purchases, partially offset by runoff in maturities. The majority of our purchases were US Treasury and federal agency securities.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, revenue grew $230 million during the quarter, with growth in net interest income in stable non-interest income. Expenses increased in the quarter, reflecting higher personnel costs, continued investments in our businesses and risk related initiatives and some typically higher fourth-quarter expenses. Our results in the quarter also reflected lower income tax expense, which was down $123 million.

As shown on page 7, we continued to have strong broad-based loan growth in the fourth quarter, our 14th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. The core loan portfolio grew by $60.4 billion or 8% from a year ago, and was up $26 billion or 13% annualized from the third quarter. Loan growth in the fourth-quarter included $6.5 billion from financing related to the sale of our government-guaranteed student loans, as well as the Dillard's credit card portfolio acquisition.

Our liquidating portfolio decreased $20.1 billion from a year a year. It is now only 7% of our total loans, down from 22% at the end of 2008. Total average loan yields remained fairly stable declining just two basis points from the third quarter.

On page 8 we highlight our loan portfolios that had strong year-over-year growth. C&I loans were up $36.4 billion or 15% from a year ago, with broad-based growth that I will highlight on the next page.

Core 1-4 Family First mortgage loans grew $14.4 billion or 7% from a year ago, reflecting continued growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages, primarily jumbo loans. The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio was outstanding, with only six basis points of annualized credit loss in the fourth quarter.

Auto loans were up $4.9 billion, or 10% from last year. While we continued to benefit from the strong auto market, new originations were down from a year ago, reflecting our continued risk and pricing discipline in a competitive market. Credit card balances were up $4.2 billion or 16% from a year ago, benefiting from a combination of organic account and loan growth, as well as the benefit of the Dillard's portfolio acquisition.

Slide 9 demonstrates the diversity of businesses that contributed to the growth in C&I loans. Let me highlight just a few. Asset-backed finance increased $16.7 billion, which included $6.5 billion from financing related to our government-guaranteed student loan sale.

Corporate banking grew $5.8 billion, driven by new customer growth and higher utilization rates from existing customers. Capital finance grew $3.8 billion, reflecting new customer growth.

As you can see on page 10, we had over $1.1 trillion of average deposits in the fourth quarter, up $22.7 billion or 8% annualized from the third quarter. Our average deposit costs declined 1 basis point to 9 basis points in the fourth quarter.

Our strong growth in checking customers continued in the fourth quarter, with primary consumer checking customers growing 5.2% from a year ago, and primary small business and business banking customers increasing 5.4%. Our success reflected the advantages Wells Fargo offers, including broad-based and industry-leading distribution channels, enhanced product offerings that make it easier for customers to do more business with us and improved customer retention.

We continued to grow net interest income on a tax-equivalent basis, up $255 million from the third quarter, reflecting strong growth in average earning assets, up $43.5 billion or 3%. The net interest margin declined 2 basis points from the third quarter due to strong deposit growth, which resulted in higher average balances of cash and short-term investments and from actions we took in the third quarter which resulted in higher average balances in liquidity-related funding.

The impact of all other balance sheet growth and repricing benefited the margin by 3 basis points due to a larger investment portfolio and stronger loan originations. Increased interest income from variable sources benefited the margin by 1 basis point.

Our balance sheet remains asset-sensitive, so we're well-positioned to benefit from higher rates. But as we've demonstrated by growing net interest income throughout the year, we are not relying on rates to increase to generate growth. Of course the first quarter will be impacted by two fewer days in the quarter.

Total non-interest income was stable from third quarter, as higher trust and investment fees, card fees, commercial real estate brokerage commissions and a $217 million gain on the sale of government-guaranteed student loans was offset by a $396 million decline in market-sensitive revenue driven by lower equity gains and lower mortgage banking revenue and deposit service charges. The decline in deposit service charges in the fourth-quarter was primarily due to lower overdraft-related fees, resulting from changes we implemented in early October designed to provide customers with more realtime information to manage their deposit accounts and avoid overdrafts.

Mortgage banking revenue declined $118 million from the third quarter. As expected, mortgage origination income was down from last quarter, reflecting reduced volume from the seasonally lower purchase market. The decline in mortgage rates during the quarter resulted in refinancing volume increasing to 40% of originations, up from 30% last quarter.

While it's still early, the continued decline in rates could benefit origination volumes in the first quarter. We currently expect volumes to be relatively consistent with fourth-quarter levels, despite the fact that the first quarter usually reflects a slower purchase market.

Our gain on sale margin was consistent with last quarter and is expected to remain within the range we've seen over the past four quarters. Servicing income increased modestly from the third quarter, reflecting lower unreimbursed direct servicing costs, partially offset by lower net head results. Our total trust and investment fees were up $3.7 billion in the fourth-quarter which was a record high, and increased $151 million from third quarter driven by higher investment banking activity.

Our expenses continued to reflect our investments in our businesses, including risk related initiatives. As shown on page 13, expenses were up $399 million from third quarter.

There were a number of factors driving this increase. Personnel expenses increased $272 million, reflecting higher deferred comp expense, which is offset in revenue, higher revenue-based incentive compensation and higher healthcare costs.

A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth-quarter. Equipment expense was up $124 million, primarily due to annual software license renewals. Outside professional services increased $116 million, which included higher project-related spending on business investments, as well as risk-related initiatives. Advertising expenses were also elevated, up $42 million from third quarter.

While these typically higher expenses should be lower next quarter, we will have seasonally higher personnel expenses in the first quarter, reflecting incentive compensation and employee benefits expense. Our expenses will also reflect our continued investment in our infrastructure, our risk infrastructure, including hiring new team members and ongoing project spending.

Our efficiency ratio was 58.1% for full-year 2014. And we expect the efficiency ratio for full-year 2015 to remain within our target range of 55% to 59%. Even at the upper end of our target range, we are operating more efficiently than many of our peers.

Turning to our business segments starting on page 14, community banking earned $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter, up 7% from a year ago and down 1% from the third quarter. I've already highlighted the strong growth in primary checking customers.

We've also been successfully adding retail bank households. Through November, our year-to-date household growth rate was the highest since 2010. Meeting the financial needs of these new households will help drive across our diversified product line.

Our debit and credit card businesses are examples of where we've had success and yet still have opportunities for continued growth. Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago, driven by primary checking customer growth and increased usage from our existing customers.

Our credit card penetration rate increased to 42%, up from 37% a year ago. Credit card purchase volume grew 17% from a year ago, reflecting account growth and increased usage among our existing customers.

Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the fourth quarter, down 7% from a year ago and up 3% from the third quarter. Loan growth continued to be strong, with average loans up $32.2 billion or 11% from a year ago, with growth across many businesses as I highlighted earlier.

Credit quality remained outstanding, with eight consecutive quarters of net recoveries. Deposit growth was also strong, with average core deposits up $33.9 billion or 13% from a year ago.

Results also benefited from strong investment banking fees up 10% from a year ago, driven by higher loan syndication fees, high-yield debt origination fees and equity underwriting. Treasury management revenue increased 11% from a year ago, benefiting from record product sales in 2014 and repricing.

Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $514 million in the fourth quarter, up 5% from a year ago and down 7% from the third quarter. Revenue grew 6% from a year ago, with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income.

The growth in fee income was driven by a 12% increase in asset-based fees as we continued to execute on our strategic initiative of focusing on plan-based relationships, resulting in higher recurring revenue. Our brokerage advisory assets grew to $423 billion, up $48 billion or 13% from a year ago, primarily due to positive net flows.

Loan growth for WBR remained strong, up 13% from a year ago, the sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year growth. This growth was primarily driven by an increase in high-quality nonconforming mortgage loans.

Turning to page 17, credit quality in the fourth-quarter remained strong, with a net charge-off ratio of 34 basis points of average loans. The $67 million increase in net charge-offs from third quarter was primarily driven by lower recoveries down $54 million, which we would expect at this stage of the credit cycle.

Nonperforming assets have declined for nine consecutive quarters and were down $739 million from third quarter. Nonaccrual loans declined $517 million, and foreclosed assets declined $222 million. The reserve release was $250 million in the fourth-quarter, down $50 million from third quarter and down $350 million from a year ago.

Our capital levels remain strong, with our estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III, using the advanced approach fully phased in at 10.44% in the fourth-quarter. Our ratio declined slightly from the third quarter, reflecting an increase in risk-weighted assets primarily from strong loan growth in the quarter.

We've stated that our long-term target is 10%, which includes a buffer over required minimums. Since we've achieved our targeted level, our capital ratios may fluctuate from quarter to quarter, reflecting changes in asset levels or composition, or changes in OCI impacted by market volatility. These potential changes are why we maintain a buffer.

As shown on slide 19, we returned $3.9 billion to shareholders in the fourth quarter. Our common shares outstanding declined by 45 million shares in the fourth quarter, reflecting 62 million shares purchased during the quarter.

In addition, we entered into a $750 million forward repurchase contract that's expected to settle in the first quarter, for approximately 14 million shares. As a reminder our share issuance is usually higher in the first half of the year, given the timing of certain employee benefit plan issuances.

So in summary, our results in 2014 and for the fourth quarter reflected the benefit of our diversified business model, with strong growth in loans and deposits. Our loan portfolio is well diversified and charge-offs were near historic lows.

We increased the amount of our capital and liquidity and returned $12.5 billion to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase. Our net payout ratio was 57% for the year within, our targeted range of 55% to 75%.

We believe we are well positioned to benefit from an improving economy, an increased customer base, our diverse product line and our continued risk discipline. Our diversified business model has performed well across a variety of economic and interest rate environments. I'm optimistic that it will continue to produce opportunities for our customers, our team members and our shareholders in the year ahead. We'll now be happy to answer your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: I just wondered if you could speak to how we should think about weighing the positive and negative effects of the sharp drop in energy prices on the bank? While it should help out the consumer businesses, is this enough to offset any potential credit issues, or possibly a slowdown in loan growth and investment banking activity?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, as I mentioned in my comments, Joe, since the United States is a net consumer, net importer of oil, we think it's a positive for the US economy. Clearly that's on average, because there's going to be some states that are impacted, some customers who are going to be impacted and some businesses going to be impacted.

But we serve 70 million customers; virtually all of them know how to fill a gas tank and go to a gas pump. And that's a real benefit. So we think, net-net, it's an opportunity. Surely there are offsets, like we said.

But even within the oil and gas business, and John mentioned -- we are a participant there -- it's about 2% of our loans. There is still a lot of opportunity for consolidation there, and we'll participate in that with our customers. We are looking at our portfolio. We analyze that. We've been through that over the past, but, net-net, we think it's a positive.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, great. Somewhat related to that, it seems recently the expectations now that higher rates are getting pushed out, it could be lower for longer, which theoretically could weigh on margins. Do you expect to be able to offset that with better growth in the Business amidst a stronger economy, as you talked about? Or do you see any need to take a harder look at expenses, and what other levers might you have to pull there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We are always taking a hard look at expenses. So there's nothing incremental that we would plan on doing there, but continuing to be as vigilant as we have.

We've been operating at a pretty strong level in a zero-interest-rate environment for a very long time. While, because of the way our balance sheet's positioned, it would probably be -- there's upside when short-term rates move. And if that happens later, then that upside might be realized later.

We are continuing to position ourselves to compete and to perform in this interest-rate environment. And so, loan growth, deposit growth, redeploying excess liquidity into earning assets, as I said, being vigilant on expenses, all of those things contribute to the performance that we've had and that we are anticipating continuing to have, until that time that rates begin to move.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much for the thoughts.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: I was wondering, John, just a question on credit and provision; asset quality clearly remains excellent. And I wasn't sure if you mentioned future reserve releases, John, but with such strong loan growth, and credit metrics now looking stable, should we expect the reserve releases to taper off? And might you need to start adding to reserves at some point, if loan growth continues at this kind of pace?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think the short answer is yes. If we have robust loan growth going forward, all things being equal even, that would contribute to the need for some amount of incremental provisioning. So it's going to be a function of the amount of loan growth, the mix of loan growth, the quality of the portfolio overall, and general economic conditions.

One thing I'd add to Joe's first question also is there's no specific provisioning action in the fourth quarter for what's going on in the energy world. There's nothing anticipated, nothing necessary at the moment, but there's nothing in that quarter either.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Did you make a comment about reserve releases? John, in the past couple quarters you've said reserve releases could continue. I was wondering if that changed a little bit now with credit bottoming, and if I missed it or not?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: With the size of the portfolio, the size of the allowance, and the amount of the fourth quarter's release, that $250 million, it's close to call. We've said in the recent past to expect them to taper; now, for the reasons that you mentioned, and I described, there could be future releases. There could be future net provisioning. So we're at that point in the cycle, I think.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, got it. And in terms of net interest income, the puts and takes, did you say how big the Dillard's portfolio was, or could you tell us?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We can't because of the nature of the contract we have with our customer. You can see the amount of loan growth in the credit card portfolio from quarter to quarter. That's a combination of the organic growth and the Dillard's portfolio.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then, any color you can offer on what opened up, in terms of opportunity to deploy the liquidity this quarter? Anything driving that in particular?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, some clarity around our liquidity framework, clarity around -- further clarity around LCR, further clarity on what kind of cash versus other HQLA we'd need to have. I think that emboldened us a little bit in terms of finding an entry point. But as we've said, these are difficult times for finding attractive entry points into fixed-income markets when we are thinking about making that switch.

JOHN STUMPF: And, John, also we had, as you know, continued very strong deposit growth.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, great.

And just one last quick thing on TLAC, John: Rules aren't finalized, we do have a proposal. How do you feel on that? And would you have to do some gradual preparing for that as you go forward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. Depending on where the ultimate rule comes out versus the range that's been published -- at the low end of the range we've got less to do, and at the high end of the range we'd have more to do. There's still a lot to know, and there's some wood to chop in the regulatory realm to get to the final rule.

We are on the record as pointing out that we really don't -- the industry doesn't understand the need for the magnitude of the total buffer that's being -- or loss-absorbing capacity that's being talked about here. We certainly find that it lands a little bit harder on people who seem to have less risky business models; those of us who are deposit-funded with a little bit more straightforward deposit taking and lending type of activity. We'd like some clarity on why that makes sense.

But however it lands, within the range that's been published, the approach for Wells Fargo is going to be to add more term debt at the Holding Company level. That will have a P&L consequence that we have to navigate through. It'll be substantially more manageable at the lower end of the range, and somewhat more expensive at the higher end of the range.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Appreciate the color that you have given us so far on what you expect for mortgage originations in the first quarter. But as we think about the full year, and think about your comments earlier, high consumer confidence, accelerating GDP, in the context of potentially lower, long rates for longer, is it possible that, from an industry level, the origination growth for this year could surpass the current MBA forecast of 6%?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, the last number I've seen from them is $1.1 trillion to $1.2 trillion. Yes, it could be higher, based on those things. As I mentioned in my comments, with what was done recently on FHA and some of the things that the GSEs are doing, and if rates stay low or are favorable, surely we could see more activity.

You could see actually more activity on both the refinance side and the purchased-money side. We'll just have to see how that goes. I don't think there's been any reduction -- or any update on those numbers from the MBA, but it could be the higher end of that range.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And on the flip side to that, you mentioned that you did get more clarity, [or on alfie] and HQLA with regards to being more aggressive in liquidity deployment. But, John, you've mentioned several times that the absolute level of rates has dictated your cash deployment or liquidity deployment strategy. As we look out into 2015, was the clarity around the rules enough to make you a little bit more aggressive about deploying your liquidity into earning assets? Or is it going to continue to be largely rate dependent?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's a good question. It's substantially rate dependent at this point, and loan growth dependent as well, because that's the first call on all of our available liquidity, is making loans to customers.

But if we believe that we are in a lower-for-longer, long-term rate scenario -- separate that from policy rates for a moment. But just thinking about the 10-year and mortgage rates, et cetera, at the margin that probably emboldens us a little bit additionally to convert what's cash today into duration over the course of the year.

JOHN STUMPF: We still have tens of billions available. So there's just a lot of liquidity on the sheet.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Understood. And just a quick follow-up: We appreciate the color that you gave in terms of the impact of energy. Has there been a lot of questions from investors in terms of what it would take for banks to adjust its qualitative reserve to reflect lower energy prices? I was just wondering if that's how Wells Fargo does it? Or do you really look at the reserve, at least in terms of your energy commercial exposure, on a name-by-name, loan-by-loan basis?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, in the case of commercial and corporate loans, it's absolutely the sum of the parts of a name-by-name basis, and the risk rating on each loan. We have hundreds of customers in the energy business, or in the E&P or upstream part of the market. There are midstream companies; there are services companies.

We have the largest team in this area, very long tenured, been through several cycles. And we're working with -- we're going customer by customer, and working through each situation to figure out what this drop means to them, based on their leverage, based on their hedging profile, based on their assets, based on their management capability. And that will lead to risk-rating changes on a loan-by-loan basis, or a name-by-name basis, as time unfolds. And it's that activity that would lead to changes in our reserving posture for the portfolio.

JOHN STUMPF: And we don't want to minimize this, but this is a nature of that business. If you go back just six years, we've had $30-a-barrel oil, and we've had $140-a-barrel oil. We've seen gas, for example, natural gas, go from $6, $7 MCF to $2 and some change today. And that's just part of that business.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: On the E&P side of that portfolio, those tend to be reserve-based loans, asset-based loans with a very interactive approach between the bank and the borrower in terms of determining the value of the collateral and then re-margining the loan down to reflect changes in the value of the collateral. And of course, that's at our discretion. We have our own engineers, and we're very engaged in that process.

All of that ties into what the future reserving needs or requirements are for that portfolio. And as I said, nothing obviously has revealed itself yet, and there's nothing in the fourth quarter specifically for that.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: A couple questions on the fee side: John, you had mentioned some of the tweaks you made in October on the service charges side. So I'm wondering if you can help us understand what types of changes those were? And then how you're looking at your product set with regards to either payday advance and whatever pending rules we could still get at some point next year on overdrafts? And if that would continue to have an impact on your deposit fees?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So what happened in October wasn't a change in the product or what we charge for it. Rather, we unrolled some incremental technology that allows our customers to have more real-time information to manage their own banking affairs. They've been using that information, and successfully reducing the amount of overdrafting that they're doing, which has had an impact on our revenue. We think it's very customer friendly, and it's good for all of us. That's distinct from any pricing approach or product approach that we have.

With respect to --

KEN USDIN: Okay. Go ahead.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: You asked about short-term or payday-type lending. I think it's clear that, during 2014, we discontinued a product that we used to offer, that was a direct deposit advance product that allowed people to borrow on a short-term, unsecured basis with their next direct deposit paycheck as security for a source of repayment for the loan. And there was some regulatory urging around that.

I think most of the discussion around those types of products is now, frankly, outside the banking system, because it's private finance companies who are providing that. And that's how it seems to be dealt with, from a regulatory perspective.

I'd also tell you that the discontinued product is out of the run rate at this point. So the impact has been fully realized.

KEN USDIN: And then overdrafts?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Hard to say much more about it, other than we are not in the process of repricing or rethinking the product capability. The results that you'll see in our numbers are a reflection of the activity and behavior of our customers as they manage their own banking affairs.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Another question I had is just on the market-related revenues. They've been trending a little bit lower, combined trading activities, securities gains, equity investment gains, and that's even with the student loan gain in that [354] number. Should we generically expect that you'll still be able to generate this type of market-related revenue, or is it more likely that you see that trend down over time?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: There's a lot of moving parts there. And I would look at a multi-quarter average to think about how to model it.

On the trading side, the customer accommodation, customer-facing trading revenue that we make, which is a pretty modest part of Wells Fargo revenue profile, will probably ebb and flow along the lines of what you're seeing in the industry, just at a more modest level. The trading line also includes the impact of our deferred comp hedging program, so it's a little noisy, given the magnitude of that versus the magnitude of our trading businesses. But those will be what they are, based on industry factors. The deferred comp program will be more revenue and more expense in an upmarket, and less revenue and less expense in a down market, generally speaking.

On the other elements, we've got gains from equity securities, gains from debt securities. In the equity space, you've seen some of the businesses that we've been involved in that, frankly, continue to be sources of revenue that we would anticipate seeing if market conditions stay the same as they are today. I wouldn't model that down too heavily.

And on the debt side, given the levels of rates that we are at, and in some markets the levels of spreads that we're at, there are some debt securities which it makes sense for us to sell and monetize from time to time, just because their market value substantially exceeds what we can imagine as their intrinsic, or certainly their carrying values. So there will be pops in there from time to time as well. It's the sum of those things that gets to that collection that you described.

KEN USDIN: Okay, and last one: Can you talk a little bit about the momentum in the trust business, and what type of outlook you see -- asset gathering and after a really strong year? In that part of the Business, do you see -- how's the pipeline for asset growth looking?

JOHN STUMPF: We're very happy and pleased with the progress we've made in that area. One of the biggest opportunities we have is the relationship between David Carroll's Wealth Brokerage Retirement Group and Carrie Tolstedt's Community Banking Group. We have as many assets away from customers who call us their bank, as we do under management right now. So the relationship and the working data there to bring those assets home, if you will, has been a big opportunity for us.

But I still view this, of all the opportunities we have in the Company, of all of our businesses, probably that is our biggest opportunity to jump a curve or to even do -- to show some incremental growth above what you would see in other, more mature businesses. So, a lot of opportunity there. Pleased with where we are; a lot more to do.

KEN USDIN: Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: There's been a lot of news flow out today, but on your -- if you mentioned this in the prepared remarks, I apologize -- but your C&I loans jumped up. Is that where the Ginnie Mae financing came through on your balance sheet?

JOHN STUMPF: No, that's not that at all.

PAUL MILLER: So, that's just pure --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: The biggest thing to call out is the student loan financing that we did. We sold a portfolio of student loans, and we provided some financing to the company who bought those loans. And so, if one item stands out in the quarter as outsized, it would be that. But those are all commercial loans.

PAUL MILLER: Yes. Is any particular industry that are doing well? Is it across the board and across geographic that this line item picked up? This is one of the line items we've been waiting to see pick up in general amongst the bigger banks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Very broad based.

JOHN STUMPF: Very broad.

PAUL MILLER: And you're not seeing -- the questions that I get is that everybody's concerned about the energy credits; but you're just not seeing it. I know you made some opening comments about that. But you're just not seeing anything on the negative side on energy credits at this point?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, this drop in crude is very recent, and the companies are taking the appropriate evasive actions to preserve cash, to delever, to reduce their expense base, et cetera. But it hasn't worked its way into loan quality.

Loan demand certainly be down in that area, I assume. But in the fourth quarter, you can see what the change in net outstandings was, which more than makes up for whatever reduced demand there is in the energy space.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura Securities.

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: I had a question on your credit card growth strategy. I think most would agree that credit card asset yields have held up quite well in this low-rate environment relative to other asset classes. Would you consider competing more aggressively on rates in an effort to grow your share of outstanding balances, particularly since the high-return business, where you arguably have room to give up a bit on pricing while still generating returns that are attractive relative to other lower-return, lower-yielding asset classes?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, let me say it this way: First of all, we love the card business, especially for our Community Bank customers. And we have grown from the low- to mid-20%s penetration to now to 42% of our customers carry our credit card. And we like that business a whole lot. Not only from the balances we get, but to be relevant to our customers as far as handling their payments, providing them services that are even around payments and so forth for them. We want to provide great value; pricing sure is part of that.

You've seen recently where we have partnered with American Express. We do a ton of business with Visa on the higher-end, higher-value cards. So this is really a strategy about getting more cards top of wallet with our customers, and pricing rewards; the whole value proposition is part of that. I wouldn't say it's just any one thing around price, per se, but it's around value.

BILL CARCACHE: Great, thank you. A separate question, if I may, on municipal deposits: Can you talk about how significant municipal deposits are to Wells? Are you deemphasizing them, given their relatively unfriendly LCR treatment? And to what extent do you see a future revenue opportunity for holding them?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We have a very big municipal business, and deposits are certainly part of that. It's a service that we provide to the tax-exempt issuing community. And by municipal, it's all forms of state and local and county government, and other non-profit types of customers.

The unfriendly LCR treatment came from the fact that municipal deposits tend to be collateralized by us, so that the municipal depositor is safer in the event of a problem with their bank. And that wasn't being taken into account in the original approach to LCR. We think we've gotten a favorable outcome there, so that they are now LCR-friendly; still very competitive.

We still like those deposits. We still very much enjoy those relationships because there's a lot of banking service that we provide to those types of clients. But they don't have the LCR problem that they might have seemed to have in pre-clarification that came out in the third or fourth quarter.

BILL CARCACHE: Okay. So it was my understanding that, for the purposes of the LCR calculation in the numerator, the high-quality liquid assets would not be able to include the collateral associated with the deposits. And it had to outflow in the denominator on day one? Is that not the case anymore?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I don't think that you have it right. I think that it works fine. Incidentally, there were two issues that people were trying to address in tweaks to LCR relating to munis.

The other one was whether high-quality muni bonds would be considered HQLA on the asset side. And I don't think that there's been a resolution there. And there are a number of our clients who issue high-quality muni bonds who take exception to that. And we'll see where that goes. But on the deposit side, I think we've cracked the code.

BILL CARCACHE: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: I had a question about the efficiency ratio. First, what were the drivers in higher revenue-driven compensation and deferred comp, especially with lower originations and softer trading results? And then the follow-on question to that is: You're still at the upper end of your efficiency target. What can you do to get at least back toward the middle end?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, the drivers of the revenue-oriented portion of increased compensation included a handful of businesses. I'd say investment banking was one of them, where we were $150 million up in the quarter. And so, some portion of the elevated expense is attributable to that, but it comes from a few others as well. And, again, it's those businesses that performed better in the fourth quarter. It can be -- with 90 different businesses, it can be a little here, a little there. That was part of it.

So, we find ourselves in the high-58%s, or now 59%, with a lot of emphasis on trying to be as efficient as we can in how we spend our money every day. There are no guarantees that we're moving toward the middle or the lower end of the range in this interest-rate environment. As we go through a full year, while we are tackling the things that we need to tackle, we spend a lot of money on risk management, compliance-related initiatives, other things that have a regulatory origin. And some of that is semi-permanent -- might be around for several quarters. And some of it's going to be around in the run rate for a while.

If rates begin to move up, that probably moves us down in the range. But, frankly, at 59%, which is the high end of our range, we can tolerate that. We think we're performing very well.

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, you are hitting one of the important issues for us. As John mentioned, we take this seriously. We are looking for all those opportunities to eliminate expenses where customers don't find value, and it's an ongoing, continuous process for us. Reducing square footage is one of those. Looking hard at the kind of money we spend that is not revenue-producing, if you will.

But also making sure that we take a look at the long term, so we continue to invest in things like, late last year Apple Pay, and other things that we do to provide convenience for customers. So it's always a -- don't waste, but also we take a long-term view. This continues to be a big focus for us.

MIKE MAYO: Correct me if I'm wrong -- you have a 55% to 59% efficiency target range. And what I'm hearing now is: Well, with the rate environment, we might be at 59%. Whereas I wasn't sure if I heard that same message before, saying: Unless rates go up, we won't get to the middle part of the range. And you were a little bit lower before, so am I hearing the message wrong? Or is it simply that you've done what you could for so long with the low-rate environment, and you can't do a whole lot more? Or what is it that leads you to say: Well, 59% is okay?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I think when we had the range, we knew that we would -- sure, we'd love to be at 55%, but we also recognize that that's why we gave a range; think of it as guard rails. And we're spending more in cyber today. We're spending more on all things risk.

On the other hand, we've not yet pulled out all of our expenses around loss mitigation. We continue to make investments in distributions. So, I guess a range is a range. And I can't guarantee we'll be at the low end. But if we are at the high end, that's also acceptable, in our mind, if we are making the right investments in the right things, and eliminating expenses where we think they can be eliminated. So, that's how we feel about it.

MIKE MAYO: And then last follow-up: The cyber expenses or the all-things-risk expenses -- have these ticked up some? Or is this what you had expected?

JOHN STUMPF: It ticked up, in the terms of we continue to make more investments there. And we are starting to get the annualization of expenses we made last year. We'll get more efficient in that over time.

But we're spending the money we think we need to spend, and sometimes that's hiring consultants. And then over time you can convert whatever they're doing to team members, which tends to be more efficient. You are not as efficient on every process the minute you adopt it or employ it. But more money is being spent there.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If I could just follow up -- the net interest margin was down just 2 basis points, which I think is very good in this kind of environment. As I look at some of the underlying detail on the yields of the securities and yields from the loan yields, I guess I don't totally understand how they've been so stable. Wondering if there's anything you can add on -- maybe first the securities piece. You've been growing it, and the yields have been remarkably resilient.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's just math. What we've been growing hasn't been that extraordinary in terms of its incremental contribution to the weighted average, because the denominator's as big as it is. If we continue to deploy -- as I know you know, if we continue deploying in this environment, ultimately it will start to skew down the weighted average returns.

And also, we've been tending to invest in treasury and agency securities. And just from a credit quality point of view, that's going to bring down returns. Setting aside historical book yields versus current book yields in the shape of the curve when the investments were made -- if we've got corporates and munis and some other things in the starting portfolio. If we are just adding US treasuries, it's going to bring things down. But it just hasn't revealed itself yet because the numbers haven't been big enough yet.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then on the loan yields -- they've been surprisingly resilient as well. Do you feel like -- I know it's a blend of 8 or 10 categories the way you disclose it, but do you feel like, generally speaking, loan yields have stabilized? I'm looking at the C&I that was actually up a couple bps. But really, up and down the portfolio, it feels like there's been pretty good stability the last three, four quarters.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think that's right. We are in fiercely competitive markets. Not every bit of competition is in the last basis point of spread on a loan. Sometimes it's in the structure of a loan, and of course, we know there are places we'll back away from when that happens. It is competitive, but it hasn't all shown up in price.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then, putting it all together, as you think about the net interest margin percent going forward, probably largely dependent on loan growth. But how do you think it shakes out? Obviously, the rates where they are doesn't help. Is it just this modest pressure, or is there more material pressure to come?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It depends on the pace of continued deposit inflows, and how that gets redeployed. If deposits remain steady where they are, then the loan growth and the redeployment from cash into investment securities is going to be very supportive of the NIM. If we keep getting high single-digit or even low double-digit deposit growth, and loan growth isn't happening at the same pace, or redeployment into investment securities doesn't make sense at the same pace, then the math is going to put pressure on that calculation.

And as you know, that's not a calculation we are managing to. It's an outcome of the other things that we're doing. But the driver there is the growth in deposits, and how you responsibly deploy that into either loans or securities in the same time frame that the deposits are coming in.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that makes sense. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: I had a question on investment spend, and thoughts around mobile wallet. With Apple Pay, obviously you did a lot of work there. Is there an opportunity to take those investments, and potentially expand them into mobile wallet, real-time banking, other tokenization strategies?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we're doing a lot of work in all those things about the so-called paperless store and doing real-time cash letters, and helping customers with real-time information, notwithstanding which channel they are involved in. So, I would say all of the above is important.

What we found, which is interesting, is that our most loyal customers today are the ones who use the channels most often, and the most types of channels. So, even for those customers who are very advanced in technology and the use of technology, the ease of technology, who might be dominant in that channel, still visit stores on an infrequent but regular basis. They go to ATMs. So, there's lots of things.

Some of the investments we're making is to set up an appointment with a banker using your technology. We are testing things about being able to authenticate customers, know when they are in the stores, working on things that would authenticate at an ATM machine, maybe using your mobile device. So there's just lots of things going on there.

We're actually learning a lot of those things from retailers and other service providers outside of our industry. So, pretty exciting stuff.

BETSY GRASECK: And do you feel that this is like table stakes, and will maintain share? Or do you think that you're doing things that could potentially drive share up, drive down that expense ratio?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I think about it less to an expense ratio. But these are more than table -- well, they are table stakes in some cases. If you don't have a mobile offering, you're probably not going to serve most millennials today.

But we think of it more than table stakes. We think it's a big reason why we're growing net new primary checking accounts of over 5% a year.

The deposit growth we've had clearly is a result of -- partially a result of our distribution model and the omni-channel view we have of these various channels. Not separate businesses, but combined into really centric around the customer needs and convenience. Our growth is, I think, reflective of our commitment to that.

BETSY GRASECK: I'm just wondering, too, on the Dillard's, because I would expect that retailers also want best-in-class mobile apps, et cetera. Is this part of what we should expect you'll be delivering to Dillard's and other private-label portfolios that you win?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I don't want to speak about a particular situation, but I'll just give you this: 16 years ago we didn't have an online offering. Today, over 80% of our customers are actively online -- some 24 million customers actively online on the consumer side. Five years ago we didn't have a mobile offering. Today we have over 14 million customers on that.

Mobile is the fastest-growing, fastest-adopted channel we've had in our history of our Company. And the things that customers can now do mobily, and the things that they'll be able to do in the next year or two as we continue to introduce new capabilities, is really exciting. So watch for this, it's really important.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: John Pancari, Evercore ISI.

JOHN PANCARI, ANALYST, EVERCORE ISI: I'm going to kick the energy horse here again, so my apologies. But first of all, can you help quantify your total leverage loan book, what the size is? And then, of that leverage loan book, how much of it is energy?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Sure. So, we don't have a leverage loan book. We have loan portfolios in various lines of business.

We have an energy loan portfolio, which would include both oil and gas. As I mentioned, it's about 2% of our loans overall. It includes E&P companies, it includes midstream pipeline companies, and it includes services companies. It also includes some investment-grade integrated oil names. But the sum of that is about 2% of our total loan portfolio.

Some of those companies will have higher leverage, some of those companies will have lower leverage. But we don't draw the portfolio line along the level of leverage.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. And then separately, related to that, you have the amount of bond exposure that you may have held in your trading portfolios for any deals that you've done in the energy sector. Do you have that quantified?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, it's a good question. I'll quantify for you our total securities exposure, including what's in trading, and also what's in AFS, because we had some corporate investments in energy names as well.

The sum total of both of those is less than $1.5 billion at Wells Fargo. And a much smaller portion in trading, which, of course, gets mark to market through the P&L every day. And somewhat larger percentage of that sitting in AFS, which we mark every day, but the value change goes through OCI.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay, all right. And then separately, on the loan growth, I agree, good pickup that we saw in C&I for the quarter. And as we look out into 2015, is it fair to assume that you should see some acceleration in the loan growth that you're looking at for 2015 versus what you achieved in 2014? I think you are in the 4% to 5% range for 2014. Is it fair to assume that accelerates from there next year, or for the full-year 2015?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think knowing what we know about the economy today, we'd feel better about the next four quarters than a couple of the last four quarters. So, if the most recent quarter is the continuation of a two-quarter trend, then, yes, we'll probably have higher loan growth or higher amounts originated.

Now, the denominator keeps growing as we grow the size of the portfolio, and at some point the rate gets impacted by that. But, yes, it feels like a good year for loan growth.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, John, we think, if you're going to grow revenues over the long run, you have to be growing households, cross-sell deposits and loans. And we sure plan for all of those.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. And then my last question -- I know there was some questions around the excess liquidity reinvestment of what you've been buying. I know you indicated you're buying treasuries and agencies. Do you have what durations and what yields that you purchased in the quarter, just to get an idea of what the ultimate impact could be on the margin?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: We don't lay it out quite that way. You will see in our tables what we're talking about. It's treasuries and agencies -- you know the time frame. I can tell you we're in the intermediate part of the curve. So that will probably get you there.

JOHN PANCARI: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Eric Wasserstrom, Guggenheim Securities.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Just to follow up on the OpEx for a moment, I understand the discussion of the ratio. But in terms of absolute level, based on what I'm hearing in terms of your loan growth expectation, it sounds like we should be anticipating an absolute level of expense that is higher than what we saw in 2014. Is that correct?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's really tough to say, which is why we talk in percentages and think about things in terms of a range. You can see the items that we're calling out as feeling seasonal in Q4, and there's a handful of them, and they amount to a few hundred million dollars. And then, of course, in Q1 we typically have escalated personnel and benefits expense as well.

In terms of the OpEx, or the investments that we are making in risk management, et cetera, they will be elevated for some period of time. But because of all of the other drivers to the total expense number, it's possible that we operate -- and there's a reasonable expectation that we operate -- at a lower level than we have in the last couple of quarters, because we are always pushing down on things where we can.

So that's why we give you the range. We think we're going to be in the range, in 2015, like we have been in 2014.

One other item I'd mention, for those that are newer to it, that we do have this deferred comp element that shows up in expense even though it's a P&L-neutral item. And that creates a hundred, or in some cases a couple hundred, million dollars worth of noise in any given quarter, which is material, given the differences that we are talking about here.

JOHN STUMPF: Eric, even though we are at the high end of the range now, one should not assume that it's not top of mind around here. It is; it remains top of mind. And it's always looking for opportunities to be more efficient, but also continue to invest in the future, because we do have a long-term view.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Right, of course. And the financing that you provided on the student loan sale -- what is the expected duration of that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, that financing probably comes down over the course of next couple of years on a relatively steep curve, as the portfolio gets permanently financed into student loan ABS. And so, my expectation -- I think the reasonable expectation is that its average life would be maybe a little bit more than a year, as it comes down.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Got it. And quickly, one last thing: The tax benefit that you mentioned in the period from the change in federal tax law -- is that a permanent benefit? And what should we expect for your go-forward GAAP tax rate?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, what happened in the fourth quarter is both the impact of the extender legislation that came in at the end of the year, as well as the resolution of some discrete matters that we've been working on with the various taxing authorities for some period of time. I would look at recent prior years for what a good expectation is for our tax rate going forward.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. So, largely unchanged, it sounds like?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Yes, I think that's right.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS, INC.: Quick question for John Shrewsberry: You noted that the investment securities portfolio has been increasing quite materially over the last year. I think it's up about $50 billion. Can you tell me what portion of that is Ginnie Mae, MBS? How much is that Ginnie Mae portfolio, if you have exposure, has that grown in 2014?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: It's negligible.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. The refinance activity there, with the 50-basis-point cut, plus rates being down, I didn't know what the impact would be perhaps on the margin. But your Ginnie Mae exposure is negligible?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Negligible.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Two questions for you: John, you mentioned the changes in the GSEs and at the FHA with regard to allowable mortgages, et cetera. There seems to have been a remarkable turnaround in Washington since the days of the financial crisis when everybody was cracking down on mortgages, and we're in a reverse posture now. As a result of this, do you see any changes that you might make at the mortgage company in terms of businesses that you exited, the wholesale business, et cetera, that you might want to go back and revisit?

JOHN STUMPF: No. First of all, I think those are positive changes that have been made. And I think they've been largely made because it got too restrictive, and customers who deserved a loan, who wanted to buy a home who could afford it, could not get credit. And I don't want to overstate the amount of those folks, but there was that element. I think we've come to a much better place with regulators, with the industry, and with customers.

But, no, we don't have an intention of going back into joint ventures or the wholesale business. We like the business mix we have now.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Second question is this: There was a, I believe, a Heard on the Street column a few days ago in the Wall Street Journal about the impact of the energy price drop on various banks. John, I think they mentioned that -- the figure 17% of revenues comes to mind, with regard to your capital markets businesses related to energy. Could you just clarify that -- where you stand in capital markets with relation to the energy business? Is there going to be a big impact in revenues there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: In that article, they referred to, I think, [Deologic] information for 2014 that suggested that we had about $280 million worth of underwriting revenue from energy-related activity. So that would be debt and equity underwriting, and probably loan syndication fees as well. So, that's the order of magnitude.

The 17% would refer to that as a percentage of the US investment banking revenue for full-year 2014. So, in terms of at-risk or where it goes from here, that's a starting point for last year. And it's bounced around between $150 million and maybe $300 million over the course of the last several years.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And just one more question, John Stumpf, for you: You've been very positive on the direction of the American economy for the last couple of quarters. And I think you remain that way. I don't know if you saw your predecessor, Mr. Kovacevich, on CNBC a couple of mornings ago. He was not so positive on strength of the American economy. I'm sure you still talk to Dick from time to time. What is behind the differing views?

JOHN STUMPF: What was his name again? (laughter)

NANCY BUSH: You know, that K guy.

JOHN STUMPF: Oh, the K guy. Well, I obviously respect Dick's view. And there are different views on the economy. But that being said -- and there is volatility, clearly. Today, look at retail sales, and you probably feel differently; so, you can feel differently on a day-to-day basis.

When I look at the businesses that we're in, and as I'm out talking with customers, which I am every day, and talking with our business leaders, and frankly, looking at the numbers -- 50 consecutive months of employment growth; unemployment in the 5%, 6% range; GDP 5%; and we'll probably have a few quarters this year start with 3s.

So, I'm optimistic. Again, I don't think this is a breakout, but I think we're on a front foot. And consumers' confidence is at an all-time high since the downturn. So, the way I read the tea leaves, I'm optimistic.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: I think Dick also suggests that we could have gotten here sooner. We could be at higher levels.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. And that's fair; I would agree with that.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: Wanted to look at the capital deployment ratios. If you look at your total payout this quarter, it's 72%, which is, I think, close to your stated target you talked about, around 75%. So, the increased capital deployment from here -- are you going to need to see some earnings momentum? Or do you think you could push past that 75% pay-out ratio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: So, our target is 55% to 75%. And you saw that it bounced around during the course of the four quarters of 2014, for a few reasons. One of them is that we do more share issuance in connection with our benefit plans in the first half of the year, and so it drives down the net pay-out ratio.

The first call on our capital is to be available to support more loan growth on behalf of our customers. So, the capital deployment horse is out in front of the net pay-out cart. And that's important to remember, because we are not hoping that we have enough to support the business growth after we think about distribution. We're making sure we have enough to support the business growth. And then we are factoring in distribution behind that.

So, we anticipate continuing to operate in the range, quarter by quarter, 55% to 75%. And the fourth quarter was a high tick on that, in the 70%s.

MARTY MOSBY: I was really looking back towards the E part of that, which is, as earnings grow that gives you more chance. What kind of catalyst do you see while we're waiting on interest rates to create some incremental earnings momentum, reigniting that, that we've seen slow down over the last couple quarters?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Well, it's loan growth, for sure. It's redeployment of excess liquidity into higher-yielding earning assets. It will be what the impact is on expenses that we've been talking about a little bit, if we do as expected there.

And then it's the various sources of fee revenue, which were flat quarter to quarter, up year over year. But there's a lot of momentum in places like card, places like investment banking, trust and investment fees overall. We just talked about the slightly more bullish case for mortgage this year. All of those are catalysts for growth.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY: Thank you, and thanks, everybody, who joined us today. And again, Happy New Year to everybody, and thanks for your interest in Wells Fargo. See you next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for joining. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Financial Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020150116eb1e002be
  


 HD
 Q3  2014 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Call - Final
   WC
12,158 words
   PD
14 October 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe , Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE , DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY : Thank you, Regina, and good morning everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf and our CFO, John Shrewsberry will discuss third-quarter results and answer your questions. Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf .

JOHN STUMPF , CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY : Thank you, Jim, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today.

Our strong results in the third quarter reflect the benefit of our diversified business model, and were driven by our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs in the real economy. Let me highlight our growth during the third quarter compared with a year ago.

We generated earnings of $5.7 billion and earnings per share of $1.02, both up 3%. We grew net interest income and non interest income resulting in 4% revenue growth, and our efficiency ratio improved to 57.7%.

Pretax pre-provision profit increased 7%. We had strong broad-based loan growth, with our core loan portfolio up almost $51 billion, or 7%.

Our credit performance continued to be excellent, with a net charge-off ratio declining to only 32 basis points on average loans on an annualized basis. We had a $300 million reserve released this quarter, down from $900 million a year ago. In fact in my 32-plus years with the Company I've not seen credit better.

Our deposit franchise continued to generate strong customer and balance growth, with total deposits up $89 billion, or 9%. We grew primary consumer checking customers by 4.9%, and primary small business and business checking customers by 5.6%. This level of business performance has enabled us to maintain strong capital levels even while returning more capital to our shareholders through higher dividends and share repurchases.

We returned a net $3.6 billion to our shareholders in the third quarter, up 29% from a year ago. Before I turn it over to John Shrewsberry , our CFO, I'd like to take a minute or two and share some of my thoughts on the economy and the housing market.

While the path to a full economic recovery remains uneven, including the volatility we've seen recently, and the current low rate environment provides some challenges, I'm very optimistic about the future. The US economy added 248,000 jobs last month, the 48th straight monthly employment gain, tying the record for the longest consecutive string of job gains ever.

There are currently more job openings than at any time since early 2001. Household wealth is at an all-time high, and after years of paying down debt the consumer debt burden is at the lowest level in over 30 years. Consumers are now better positioned for increased spending and borrowing.

The US economy is also benefiting from the increase in domestic oil and gas production, which is at the highest level in almost 30 years and rising fast, up 14% over the past year. Fiscal conditions have improved at all levels of government, and government payrolls are once again on the rise for the first time this decade.

Historically most recoveries in this country have been led by housing. While the residential real estate market has definitely gotten better, which is good for the US economy, it has not fully recovered. I believe there are several factors holding the housing market back from a complete recovery.

First, household formation is slower than it has been in the past. Second, national student debt balances have increased, leaving less money available to pay for a mortgage.

Third, in some markets inventory is not available, especially in coastal areas. Finally, credit is still not attainable for all qualified borrowers due in part to the credit overlays that many mortgage lenders, including Wells Fargo , use to help reduce repurchase risk.

Despite these challenges, our recent survey we conducted showed that homeownership is still an aspiration for 95% of respondents. Home prices are up 7% over the past year, and I believe the housing market will continue its recovery driven by pent-up demand and affordability that, even with the increase in home prices, is still far better than the historical average. These trends are all positive for our country, our customers, our shareholders, as well as Wells Fargo , and we continue our service to the real economy.

Now John Shrewsberry , CFO, will provide more details on our third quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY , CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Wells Fargo had another strong quarter, earning $5.7 billion and growing EPS to $1.02. Generating this level of consistent earnings while economic growth has been uneven and interest rates have remained low, demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model. We grew both revenue and pretax pre-provision profit from second quarter, and have grown pretax pre-provision profit for four consecutive quarters.

Our results also reflected solid loan and deposit growth that was diversified across our businesses. Our capital levels remain strong even as we returned $3.6 billion to shareholders through common stock dividends and net share repurchases.

As John highlighted and as you can see on page 3, we had strong year-over-year growth across a number of important business drivers. We grew net interest income amidst a persistent low rate environment with strong earning asset growth. And our ability to grow noninterest income by $542 million, or 6% from a year ago even as mortgage originations declined by 40%, demonstrates the benefit of our diversified sources of fee income.

Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification and the balance between spread and fee income. We have over 90 businesses, and in any given quarter some will drive more revenue growth than others. For example, the strength in the markets over the past few years has benefited our market sensitive businesses. Market sensitive revenue was 5% of our total revenue in the third quarter, up from 4% in the second quarter but lower than the 7% contribution in the first quarter.

Let me highlight some key drivers of our third quarter results from the balance sheet and income statement, perspective starting on page 5. Our balance sheet has never been stronger. We've increased our liquidity position, improved the quality of our assets, and hold more capital.

Furthermore while we're positioned to benefit from rising rates, we're confident in our ability to continue to deliver strong results if rates remain low. Investment securities increased $9.9 billion from the second quarter, with $25 billion of purchases partially offset by runoff.

We issued $16.3 billion of liquidity related long-term debt as well as some additional liquidity related short-term funding during the third quarter. We are now solidly over 100% for the LCR, but keep in mind that the LCR is a minimum requirement. We have a significant about cash available to deploy, both to meet our customers' financial needs and to opportunistically purchase high-quality assets.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, revenue grew $147 million during the quarter, with growth in net interest income and stable non interest income. I will highlight the drivers of revenue growth in more detail later, but let me take a moment now to highlight the growth in market sensitive revenue which increased $231 million from second quarter.

Net gains from debt securities were up $182 million as we sold securities, primarily non-agency MBS, as part of our ongoing balance sheet management. Net gains from equity investments were up $263 million from second quarter, reflecting strong results in our venture capital businesses, but were down $135 million from first quarter. We've been in these core businesses for decades and results are naturally cyclical and driven by market conditions.

Non-controlling interest reduces the impact of the equity gains to our net income and increased $166 million from second quarter. The increase in market sensitive revenue from debt and equity gains was partially offset by $214 million of lower trading gains.

The decline in trading reflected $163 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results, which was offset in employee benefits expense and lower customer accommodation trading. Our results this quarter also reflected $227 million of lower income tax expense from the second quarter, reflecting tax benefits primarily due to charitable donations of appreciated securities.

As shown on page 7 we continue to have strong broad-based loan growth in the third quarter, our 13th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth. Our core portfolio grew by $50.8 billion, or 7% from a year ago, and was up $12.2 billion, or 6% annualized from the second quarter.

Our liquidating portfolio was down $21 billion from a year ago, and is now only 8% of our total loans, down from 10% a year ago. Average loan yields have remained relatively stable over the past year and were up one basis point from second quarter.

On page 8 we highlight a number of our loan portfolios that had strong year-over-year growth. C&I loans were up $23.8 billion, or 13% from a year ago, with diversified growth that I will highlight on the next page.

We are the largest commercial real estate lender in the country, and we're benefiting from the growth in new construction. Our commercial real estate portfolio grew $3.1 billion from a year ago.

Foreign loans grew $700 million, or 2% from a year ago, reflecting growth in trade finance and the UK commercial real estate acquisition we completed in the third quarter of last year. Core 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $16.4 billion, or 9% from a year ago, with growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages, primarily jumbo loans. The credit quality of our core mortgage portfolio was outstanding, with only seven basis points of loss in the third quarter.

We're the number one auto lender in the country. Auto loans were up $5.5 billion, or 11% from last year, reflecting strong originations. Credit card balances were up $2.8 billion, or 11% from a year ago, benefiting from continued account growth.

Slide 9 demonstrates the diversity of businesses that contributed to the growth in C&I loans. Let me highlight just a few. Asset-backed finance increased $5.3 billion, with increased utilization and new originations across all asset classes, corporate banking grew $4.4 billion driven by new customer growth and higher utilization rates from existing customers, and commercial banking, serving our middle market customers, grew $3.8 billion with diversified growth across geographies and industries.

As you can see on page 10 average deposits totaled $1.1 trillion in the third quarter, up $25.6 billion from second quarter with growth in both commercial and consumer balances. Due to our outstanding deposit franchise, we've been able to grow deposits over 5% on a year-over-year basis every quarter since the third quarter of 2011.

Our primary consumer checking customers were up 4.9% from a year ago, and we grew primary small business and business banking checking customers by 5.6%. Our average deposit costs were 10 basis points in the third quarter, consistent with second quarter and two basis points lower than a year ago.

Our NIM declined nine basis points from the second quarter. Four basis points of this decline was from strong customer-driven deposit growth. Because excess deposits remain invested in cash equivalents in the current environment, deposit growth put pressure on the NIM but was basically neutral to net interest income. Liquidity-related actions, both term deposits and long-term debt, also diluted the margin by four basis points.

The impact of all other balance sheet growth and repricing was again minimal this quarter, reducing the margin by one basis point. Despite the decline in the net interest margin, we continued to grow net interest income on a tax equivalent basis, up $147 million from the second quarter as a result to the growth in earning assets, higher PCI accretion, and one additional day in the quarter.

Our balance sheet is asset sensitive so we're well-positioned to benefit from higher rates, but we're not relying on rates to increase in order to generate growth. As we have demonstrated in this historically low rate environment, we believe we can grow net interest income over time even if rates remain low.

While total non interest income was unchanged from the second quarter, we had growth across a number of business drivers including deposit service charges, retail brokerage, trust and investment management, card fees, commercial real estate brokerage, and the market sensitive revenue that I highlighted earlier. This growth was offset by lower investment banking fees, which declined 24% from second quarter, consistent with the decline in the market fee pools.

Insurance was down $65 million reflecting the impact from the sale of 40 offices last quarter, and also seasonality in the crop insurance business. Other noninterest income was down $95 million from second quarter, which had included the gain from the sale of the insurance offices.

Mortgage banking revenue declined $90 million from second quarter. Mortgage origination gains were up $266 million from last quarter, primarily due to gain on sale margins increasing to 182 basis points and a higher mortgage repurchase reserve release.

The majority of our originations were tied to purchase activity: 70% of originations in the third quarter, up from 59% a year ago. We currently expect originations to be down in the fourth quarter reflecting normal seasonality in a purchase market.

Servicing income declined $356 million from second quarter. Approximately one-half of this decline was from higher unreimbursed direct servicing costs, which reduced gross servicing fees. The rest of the decline was driven by lower net mortgage servicing rights results reflecting lower carry and hedging gains. Our gain on sale margin is expected to remain within the range we've seen over the past four quarters.

As shown on page 13, expenses were up $54 million from second quarter, while our efficiency ratio improved to 57.7%. We've consistently worked at improving our efficiency which has enabled us to maintain a high level of customer service while we've continued to appropriately invest in our businesses.

We've been significantly increasing our investment in our already strong risk management practices. Our quarterly expenses related to risk and compliance have increased by approximately $100 million over the past year, and we've added over 1,500 team members in this area.

Additionally, operating losses in the third quarter were $417 million, primarily reflecting litigation accruals. We expect our efficiency ratio will remain within our target range of 55% to 59% in the fourth quarter.

Turning to our business segments starting on page 14, community banking earned $3.5 billion in the third quarter, up 4% from a year ago and up 1% from second quarter. By consistently providing outstanding customer service with the convenience of the most extensive store network in the country, and award-winning mobile and online banking, we've had strong net household growth.

In fact August was our strongest month for net retail bank household growth in over three years. These additional households will help drive our future growth as we focus on offering customers the products and services they need to help them succeed financially.

Our results continue to benefit from growth in our debit and credit card businesses. Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago, driven by primary checking customer growth and increased usage from existing customers.

Credit card purchase volume grew 16% from a year ago. We've continued to increase our credit card penetration rate, growing from 36% a year ago to 39.7%, and our new customers are spending more and transacting at a greater frequency.

By consistently focusing on meeting the financial needs of our small business customers, Wells Fargo has been America's number one lender to small businesses for 12 consecutive years. We do business with 1 in 10 small businesses and grew primary business checking customers by 5.6% from a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $1.9 billion in the third quarter, down 3% from a year ago and 2% from second quarter. While earnings were down there were a number of underlying trends that demonstrated business momentum.

Loan growth remained strong, up $28.8 billion or 10% from a year ago, with growth across many businesses as I highlighted earlier. Credit quality remained outstanding, with seven consecutive quarters of net recoveries.

Deposit growth was also strong, with average core deposits up $43.1 billion, or 18% from a year ago, with diversified growth across wholesale businesses. Wholesale banking cross-sell increased to 7.2 products per relationship, up from 7.0 a year ago, and treasury management grew revenue by 9% from a year ago reflecting new product sales and repricing.

Wealth, brokerage, and retirement earned $550 million in the third quarter, up 22% from a year ago and 1% from second quarter. Year-over-year results were driven by strong revenue growth, up 7% with increases in both net interest income and non interest income.

Asset-based fees increased 18% from a year ago, reflecting increased market valuation and net flows. WBR results continued to benefit from strong loan growth, up 13% from a year ago, driven by growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgage loans and security-based lending. This was WBR's fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit year-over-year loan growth.

Turning to page 17, credit quality continued to improve with charge-offs at historic lows. Our net charge-off ratio declined to just 32 basis points of average loans. Consumer losses were 62 basis points and commercial loans had a net recovery of two basis points.

The improvement in our asset quality reflected the benefit of the improving economy and our continued focus on originating high-quality loans. For example approximately 57% of the consumer first mortgage portfolio was originated after 2008 when new underwriting standards were implemented.

Nonperforming assets have declined for eight consecutive quarters and were down $406 million from second quarter. Nonaccrual loans declined $607 million, while foreclosed assets increased $201 million driven by higher government insured or guaranteed properties primarily in judicial states.

The reserve release was $300 million in the third quarter, down $200 million from the second quarter and down $600 million from a year ago. We continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy, but expect a lower level of future releases as the rate of credit improvement slows and the loan portfolio continues to grow.

Our capital levels remain strong, with our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III using the advanced approach fully phased in at 10.46% in the third quarter. While the amount of RWA we determined under the standardized and advanced approaches has been converging, our ratio, this quarter was determined under the advanced approach because RWA under the advanced approach was higher.

As shown on slide 19 our strong capital levels have allowed us to return more capital to our shareholders. We returned $3.6 billion to shareholders in the third quarter and our net payout ratio was 66% in the third quarter, within our target range of 55% to 75%.

Our common shares outstanding declined by 34.9 million shares in the quarter, the largest decline in over six years. We purchased 48.7 million common shares and entered into a $1 billion forward repurchase contract that is expected to settle in the fourth quarter for approximately 19.8 million shares. We've reduced our common shares outstanding by 58.7 million shares from a year ago and expect further reductions in the fourth quarter.

In summary, our results in the third quarter reflect the benefit of our diversified business model which has enabled us to produce strong and consistent result over a variety of economic and interest rate environments. Our results were driven by strong loan and deposit growth and we grew revenue and pretax pre-provision profits. We increased our capital levels and returned more capital to shareholders.

We continued to execute against all of the targets we established at investor day, operating within our stated ranges for ROA, ROE, efficiency ratio, and capital return. Our balance sheet has never been stronger, reflecting higher capital and liquidity levels and improved asset quality.

While we're well positioned to benefit from increased economic activity and higher rates, as we've demonstrated by our consistent financial performance in a variety of environments we're not dependent on the economy improving or rates rising to generate strong results. I'm optimistic about our future opportunities as we continue to focus on serving customers and growing relationships. I will now open up the call to questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Erika Najarian, Bank of America Merrill Lynch .

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : My first question is on the net interest income and interest margin. We hear you loud and clear in terms of the message with regards to the NII trajectory. As we think about the net interest margin going forward, given the stability of your loan yields over the past three quarters and your funding costs also stable over the past three quarters, is really sort of the incremental hit from on the margin in this rate environment really going to come from deposit flow, given that you did issue $16 billion in debt in the quarter for liquidity purposes already?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's probably true. It also has a lot to do with what we choose to do with the excess deposits, or frankly excess funding as it sits on our balance sheet.

We're making choices between leaving that liquidity and cash equivalents sitting at the Fed , or deploying it in HQLA or loans for that matter if there's enough demand for it, or other assets with yield. And we're making those determinations based on how we feel about entry points in the market and what we think it does to our capital sensitivity in the event of a backup subsequently. And it's those types of choices that are going to drive us to increase the all-in yield on the left side of the balance sheet, whether the funding is coming from deposits or from term funding.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And my second question is given Governor [Trujillo's] speech early in September there are clearly two looming issues for the industry that may not be as relevant to Wells; higher CET1 buffers relative to your short-term funding base and also the interpretation of NSFR final rules from Basel.

Do you see advantage given where you are on both the business mix and capital spectrum to perhaps take advantage of players that need to have more stringent buffers mainly in terms of continuing to grow market share in wholesale banking?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It's possible. In both of those measures we think we end up at the low end of the risk-adjusted spectrum in terms of the bad outcomes that could occur. And that might give us an opportunity to do a little bit more for our customers if they need it and if the risk-adjusted returns are appropriate.

I think we're all waiting to see what happens to the returns in those businesses based on the actions taken by people who are constrained by both of those -- who are more constrained by both of those new ratios, what it means for pricing, what it means for customer behavior, et cetera. But we're happy with the approach that we've taken and we're here to serve the customers that we have. But you're right, we're probably at the more advantaged end of the spectrum with respect to both of those measures.

JOHN STUMPF : Erika, to add to that, nothing that's happening to date and nothing that we see in the horizon will get in our way or impede our way to help customers and to serve them. And I think that puts us in a very good position.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. I'll step off. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: John, I appreciated your color on reminding us about that minority interest back out on some of the trading related activities, but just wonder if you can help us understand from those portfolios that still generate a healthy amount of fee income, what's left in the till if you think across net gains from trading activities, debt securities, and net gains from equity investments, a question that comes up frequently with the investor community?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Sure. Well there are a variety of different businesses that contribute to those results. So the big drivers would be our venture activity that we have in Norwest Venture Partners, it would be the activity at investment banking where we've got customer combination trading, it's the impact of the hedging that we do for our deferred comp program, and then at least in this quarter and probably in future quarters some amount of balance sheet management on the debt portfolio.

And they all contribute. So it's a diversified set of investments, different drivers in each case. Some of them are more sensitive to where we are in the rate cycle, some of them are more sensitive to where we are in the equity evaluation cycle.

But they've contributed more or less call it 4% or 5% to 7% or 8% over a number of quarters. And there isn't one thing that I would hang your hat on. I think of them as being core to our business results in different ways but over the long-term.

JOHN STUMPF : And John mentioned that we've been in those business decades, actually, a lot of decades, 50 years. So at least with respect to venture and equity partners. So these are long-term businesses for us.

KEN USDIN: Yes. I think that's the point, which is that you don't see any cliff coming as far as just the ability to continue to realize either gains or benefit from those activities and there's some countercyclical pieces within it as well?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well they are a part of what's a broader set of diversified noninterest income levers. Right? So whether they're contributing 4% or 7% as has been in recent history and how they work in sync with all of the other things that are going on in terms of customer-facing fee generating activity, that is the diversified model.

And as I mentioned some of them are more interest rate sensitive and we're in a low rate environment so there's higher unrealized gains. Some of them are levered to equity markets and exit strategies for portfolio investments. But I would think of them as part of the broader mix of diversified non interest income sources.

KEN USDIN: Understood. My next question just on the expense side, understanding that you're going to still be living in this 55%, 59% range, we did see flattish fee side, a little bit of NII growth but then a little bit of higher expense as well. And I'm just wondering as you think about that level of expenses and continue to manage forward in what's still looking to be a pretty tough rate environment and these ongoing challenges from NIM pressure, any adjustments that you're thinking about or contemplating as far as the need to continue to manage that expense base even tighter than you've already been and where would opportunities be if so?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, we're always trying to be as efficient as we can be to make sure that we have the resources available to deliver what customers need. And of course, as we've mentioned, we're at a time when the focus in the investment and the risk management area is very high.

So we're working constantly to try and be as efficient as we can in areas where it won't impact customers and where it doesn't hinder us in terms of our risk management activity. Some examples -- which we've talked about a little bit before, are really in other areas.

For example the space that we consume, the way we think about our purchasing, the technology that we use, et cetera. We can always be a little bit more efficient and it's a constant job here to try and make the most of that.

KEN USDIN: But you guys haven't felt that incremental compliance burden increasing to a level where you feel the need to pull the continuous improvement cord?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I think we are pulling the continuous improvement cord, and in part because we are spending more in compliance and risk management like we're spending more in the customer experience and our customer facing activity.

But in order to afford both of those things we have to be really vigilant around the business as usual expenses. And that's continuous improvement.

KEN USDIN: Understood. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: John, question on the mortgage revenues. On the servicing side, the gross servicing revenues are down about $200 million. You mentioned the unreimbursed servicing costs.

Does that feel one time-ish, the pop up in those? It seems like those were coming down for a while and then they've kind of reversed this quarter. Does that just bounce around or any color you can give on that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It had come down. It bounced back up. Our sense is the trajectory is going to be reduced over the longer arc of the mortgage servicing cycle.

It's going to be hard to forecast it quarter to quarter. So I wouldn't expect it as low as it's been for the last couple of quarters. This may be a more average quarter.

And over some period of time as the level of nonperforming loans, foreclosed assets, et cetera begins to abate, then you'd expect that to ratchet itself down. But this is probably a relatively normal level.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And in terms of capital, on the advanced approach you mentioned the RWA ratio to total assets, seems like it got a little better on better credit quality and data refinements. Any more color on that?

Is that something that also just kind of bounces around quarter to quarter, or will you still have some model improvements you can do from here?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : There's always more that we can do with improved and more focus on data and modeling. But you could come to a point where just because of the nature of our assets, loans, and securities that attract the risk weights that they do that were constrained on the standardized side.

And we mentioned that they're converging, they're very close together right now in terms of the RWA calculation. But the takeaway is that our capital level did increase a little bit in the quarter under the advanced approach. And in spite of that we are still earning north of 13% as an ROA which we're very proud of.

JOHN MCDONALD : Is that stuff that just rolled off in terms of the better credit quality and older assets at roll off? Is that why it's getting better?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It's a combination of roll off and hard work around data and modeling and continuous refinement.

JOHN MCDONALD : And with that ratio at 10.46% is this the kind of level that you want to run at on Tier 1 Common?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Tough to say. As we said at investor day, this is probably in excess of the buffer that we might have imagined when we originally vectored in toward our regulatory capital levels. And it's really as a function of CCAR and some of the assumptions that are made in the CCAR process as it's applied.

So as we go from CCAR to CCAR and we present our starting capital point, we present our expected capital generation and our capital actions and what they yield in terms of capital levels, we're trying to manage that as appropriately as we can to get the right amount of return back to shareholders, which we believe that we've done at a 66% payout ratio. But it's an art form because of all of the inputs and the other actors in the process.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Just a quick follow-up to Erika's question on the liquidity building, it sounds like you're now above the minimums under your calculations but you might decide to build some buffer going forward? So we might expect a little bit more on that front from you?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I think we're at a period where big banks are trying to figure out what the right buffer is as a result of our own internal stress testing and the expectations on GSIBs in particular. So we're in that phase.

We feel great about where we are right now. Nobody's mentioned TLAC yet, but there's some work to do to figure out where we're going on that front and what the interplay is between liquidity we've already built and what future requirements are going to be.

So I think the heavy lifting is probably behind us for the time being. But I wouldn't say that we're stopped.

JOHN STUMPF : John, one of the strengths of the Company of course is our continued ability to grow high-quality low-cost core deposits, which is critical in all of this.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Just following up on some of the rate related questions earlier. This is not a Wells specific issue, but you are the first of the super-regional banks to come out. If the 10-year does stay right now it's sitting at 2 to 2.2 my screen shows. Is this meaningful as we think about both the NIM and then could there be some opportunities on refis if we stay down here for a little bit?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I don't know if that gets us back into in the money refi scenario. We're probably still some distance away from that. I think that it is meaningful.

And it's more about the expectation of how long rates stay low because that will influence the decision to redeploy cash equivalents into assets with duration. And if you imagine that term rates are going to backup in the foreseeable future, just from a capital preservation perspective, you're probably less likely to redeploy out of cash and into higher earning assets.

And so that's a calculus and a judgment that we make here relatively regularly. And it feels frankly like the market is now discounting the idea that there's any sort of meaningful move up in rates in the 2015 timeframe.

So if we're going to be lower for longer I think it means a lot for banks like ours. I think it means you have to be that much more vigilant on expenses.

I think it means you have to think about how your assets are deployed and how much cash you think you really need to carry. And we'll be conducting that balance between the risk to capital if rates back up and the risk to earnings if rates stay low and we're underinvested.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. And a somewhat related theme, spread pressure in the commercial lending business. We saw your yields down about 10 bps quarter to quarter.

And there's two phenomenon going on: one, the two loans that you're adding are at lower spreads generally speaking for the industry, but then maybe some loans that you did a few years ago are coming up for renewal and there's some depricing there. Maybe just talk about like which of those two is a bigger driver at this point as we think about the dynamics in that book?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I don't know which of those two drove the 10 basis point drop in this quarter, was a greater contributor to that drop in this quarter. It is a competitive environment out there.

We're happy to be able to have a full toolkit when we square off with our commercial customers because we're in a position to earn more of their business and to generate more of a return on the risk capital that's associated with the loan that we're going to make. We contrast ourselves with some other firms that we compete with who are getting paid primarily from the loan yield itself and not from the broader relationships. So we like our competitive stance in that range.

We have backed away from the table in some situations. Not so much on price but where we see credit or terms getting a little bit frothy. Because that's another lever that people pull in order to compete for these types of assets.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Any signs of stabilization in that spread or just still under pressure?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I think at some level it's got to be stabilized by the marginal player who's only getting a return from the asset itself, because there are levels below which they can't go because they're not going to generate a sufficient return on capital and they have no other cards to play in terms of generating relationship returns by providing product or service. And some of the smaller banks who participate in those markets would be examples of that.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets .

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Looking at your new C&I slide on page 9, how much of your growth do you think is coming from market share gains as opposed to increased demand? And along those lines, last quarter you talked about seeing increased confidence among business owners. Is that still the case generally?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, speaking for market share gains, it depends on which column in that slide you're talking about. I think we have leading market share and our increasing share in some of those businesses.

In some of them they might include examples of businesses where we've chosen to slow down a little bit if the competitions got racy. So it's a combination of things, of both market share growth and of the size of the market increasing.

JOHN STUMPF : So Joe, if you look at more than just commercial customers broadly, there's actually been fairly good activity. Now there's been volatility lately in the market, but if you look at auto sales, and we participate in that business of course, August was the biggest sales month maybe in I don't know how many years.

Consumers -- our credit card activities are increasing. We're doing -- we had growth in our mortgage portfolio. So it's really broad based.

And when I'm out calling customers, corporate customers or middle-market customers, there seems to be at least more discussion about activity and the marketplace is not totally ubiquitous. There's places that are stronger in energy, for example, and those places are really doing well.

Ag is having a pretty good year of technology. So it depends on what part of the economy it is, but clearly I see and I hear more optimism than I heard a year ago for example.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That's helpful color. I guess lastly, just can you share with us any thoughts on Apple Pay and how readily you see it being adopted and what sort of impact it may have on the broader payments business?

JOHN STUMPF : As you know we are participating in that and there are I think 7 million to 8 million terminals or merchants out in the marketplace and only a few hundred thousand have the NFC chip in them, and that you need that, the near field communications chip. So this will take, there will be an adoption, but we are pleased and excited on behalf of our customers to participate in that and it will evolve over time.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Couple questions. One was on the TLAC; you did mention that obviously something that you are in the review of.

I think the expectation is that in the US at least we'll have to have senior through common 20% to 25% of risk-weighted assets. And if you're on the high end of that range can you give us a sense of what you might do to minimize any impact?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : There's still a lot to know. We are seeing similar headline numbers, maybe a little bit lower, 19.5% to 23.5%. And this is all research that's been published based on information that's in the market that hasn't been officially sanctioned. So who knows.

And over what period of time it has to get phased in is unknown. What counts, what doesn't count among your existing capital structure is unknown. Which entities that you issue out of and whether there are going to be caps on those types of things. There are a handful of questions that are unknown.

Our sense is that we're going to end up at the lower end of the range. We calculate that we probably have about 18% today that qualifies. And if we end up having the issue we'll probably be issuing a form of senior unsecured mostly HoldCo debt and it will happen over some period of time.

And it will end up being an earnings drag because we'll issue that debt and pay a corporate spread and we'll take that cash and we'll reinvest it in some lower yielding either HQLA or equivalent. And it will become a new part of the cost structure and capital structure of the bank. So my short answer is there's still a lot to know but we'll deal with it when it comes and it doesn't seem insurmountable.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And there's no rush to get it done quickly, right? I mean I think you have until January 1, 2019?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Don't know yet but I've heard similarly that it will -- there will be a longish phase-in period.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then two other quick questions. One's on the auto business.

You highlighted that you are the nation's largest bank lender of auto and I wanted to understand how you're thinking about that given the risk retention rules that are out there. Clearly it's just a proposal so it's not fully baked yet, but there's this outline that you'd have to at some in the future hold 5% of any securitizations that you do in auto. Does that matter to you?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It doesn't matter to us in our current business model because we don't securitize our auto loans. We own 100% of the risk on every one of them.

And frankly, in the auto loan securitization business for those who do use securitization, that's the general business model which is that people own the bottom of the capital structure and retain their own risk. Which is different than mortgage, but that's how auto finance companies generally work. So I don't think that's going to have a real impact on Wells Fargo .

BETSY GRASECK: Right. I was thinking about it from the perspective of the competitive dynamic if that were to come into play.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, to the extent that it makes it harder for other people to compete, then that could be good for Wells Fargo .

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And then lastly just on mortgage, John you mentioned at the beginning a lot of the headwinds that are sitting in front of us in mortgage, one of the questions we get often is what about the credit box?

And is there an opportunity here as home prices improve and as consumer balance sheets improve that there is some loosening up of standards on the credit box? Maybe you could speak to that?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, I would say I don't know that it's value so much. I think the bigger part of the credit box right now to open up would be a better understanding of repurchase risk.

And we're doing a lot of work with folks in the government about that issue. I think that will influence it more than value of homes. Although values are important, but because credit overlays today are not related to values, they're related to in many cases repurchase risk.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And apparently the FHFA is working on crystallizing that more clearly for people. I assume that's what you're talking about?

JOHN STUMPF : Exactly. There has to be -- I think it's helpful to America, to American homeowners, prospective homeowners, to the agencies and to originators that there is an understanding of when risk transfers.

Now if the originator does a poor job and doesn't underwrite properly, surely they should be held accountable. But if a default happens later and it's due to a technical issue unrelated to the payment ability of the customer that could have been known, then risk should transfer.

And whatever that period of time is, I think that would be helpful. And there are a number of Americans who want to buy a home, can afford to buy a home, who simply can't get credit.

BETSY GRASECK: So do you think you if you had a certain amount of clarity like T plus three years risk transfers, assuming we did a good job as an underwriter, would that have a material impact on how you are putting on your credit overlays?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, it would surely change -- it would surely change the way we look at overlays. And I'm not saying it is going to change the market, but those -- every home that gets sold that satisfies a customer's need not only fulfills a dream, but $1 spent on a home multiplies through the economy like no other thing that we do.

I mean, a loan to a small business, we love it, do a large [humbry], but a loan to a home owner is magical in that respect. So every time we can serve another customer good things happen.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: John, do you still dream about checking accounts? And the reason I asked -- or do your dream about them as much?

Because with the ten-year where it is, do you still go all gung ho, get as much deposits as you can get for the long-term value? Or do you somehow need to balance that with the need for shorter-term profitability?

JOHN STUMPF : In fact, Mike, I'm going to bed earlier these days so I can even dream longer about them. I still just love checking and here's why.

It's a good question, it's a serious question. First of all, when an account comes -- like we grew net primary checking accounts 4.9% in the consumer side and 5.6% in the business side, they don't come alone. They come with a relationship.

And the increases you're seeing in debit card activity and credit card, we almost have 40% of our customers now credit carry our credit card. That was 22% in 2009. And they do other things with us.

And secondly, you know how expensive it is to build liquidity for the LCR and other things. Deposits are hugely important in that. So no, the love affair has not ended.

And we won't be in this environment forever. But if we can serve customers for a long time that feels like forever and we'd love that.

MIKE MAYO: Well, you mentioned that you are trying to mitigate the impact somewhat with expenses. And you're actually increasing your number of branches, but I guess you're reducing the square feet? Can you give us some sense of what sort of square foot reduction you're looking for in your bank branches say, over 5 or even 10 years?

JOHN STUMPF : Let me give you a high-level and then I'll try to answer your question specifically. If you go back five, six years we had about 116 million or 117 million square feet, and that was not only for our stores but for all of our people.

Today that's in the 93 million, 94 million square foot range. We still think we have quite a ways to go.

We have 6,200 banking stores and we have another couple thousand other advisor and mortgage stores, but let's just talk about the banking stores for a second. We try to refresh 500, 600 of those every year.

Plus we are -- we're a pretty steady state right now. We're in that 6,200. We will replace two with a new one and relocate it.

When we do refresh them we will reduce in many cases square footage or increase the density in the stores. I think you and I have actually had discussions about which is now three stores in the Washington area where these are I wouldn't say stores of the future in terms of replacing all of our 6,200 stores, but they fit into the model where they are 1,000 to 1,200 square feet.

During the daytime it's a full functioning store. At nighttime, the walls fold in. It's an ATM vestibule 7/24.

So all of that matters in the mix. And the reason we are doing that is that we have found stores are still critically important to the overall distribution community and convenience we provide customers. So we will continue to march in this way.

Doesn't mean we're going to replace every store. Sometimes we are even adding space because it's the hub and spoke.

So it's really a collage of store designs and activities that all fit into this. But you're right. With the idea of reducing overhead, reducing space, we're providing the convenience customers want.

MIKE MAYO: So over the last five years you reduced square feet by about one-fifth. Over the next five years how much do you think you can reduce it by?

JOHN STUMPF : I don't know that we have an absolute goal, but it will continue to go down. There are lots of opportunities. And that's going to be critical.

MIKE MAYO: And then just one separate question. You had a comment in the American Banker I think it was and you alluded to it today. That it's tougher for some individuals to get a mortgage loan from Wells Fargo because of the risk of repurchase. And so is this simply -- would you describe this as an unintended consequence of some of the regulatory actions over the past few years?

JOHN STUMPF : I would say it's unintended consequence of activity. I don't know if it's so much on the regulation side, but it sure is -- it gives us cause to pause and other originators.

We're not unique in this. When you have repurchase requests that go back 8 and 10 years and in many cases for things unrelated to the credit quality or the credit payment ability of the borrower at the time of the borrowing, we put overlays on.

Now, we've started to reduce a little bit of those as we start to understand more about repurchase. But it's just -- it is an unintended consequence. I don't know if it's so much regulation as it is the activities of the GSEs.

MIKE MAYO: So is this a permanent dampening for the mortgage market?

JOHN STUMPF : No. I actually think that we're going to -- I'm hopeful we're going to figure this out. We're working with actually community groups who are saying to us, this isn't working for us.

And we're working with other originators. We're working with the Mortgage Bankers Association, we're working with the head of the FHFA.

We're working with the GSEs. We're working with government agencies, the Fed and others because we need to figure this out.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Bill Carcache, Nomura Securities .

BILL CARCACHE, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES : You guys mentioned in response to an earlier question that we're not going to be in this environment forever. Following up on that thought, I was hoping you could share your deposit growth outlook just from a high-level with QE now coming to an end?

Would you expect to see a slowdown in overall industry deposit growth and the corresponding excess liquidity building? And if so does that mean that some of the excess liquidity-driven NIM compression that we've been seeing should abate?

JOHN STUMPF : Let me take a shot at that. Clearly money supply and what's happening there has an influence, but I can tell you our household growth, I think John mentioned in his numbers in August, was the strongest we've seen in years.

And because of where our store distribution and the geography of it, we happen to be in higher growth states. We happen to get a disproportionate growth of millennials and emerging communities.

So I can't tell you what's going to happen at the top of the house with M1 or M2 or anything like that, but I'm confident about the way we run our retail franchise and the work we're doing in wealth brokerage retirement, and frankly on the corporate side in winning new customers and growing not only existing accounts, but growing new accounts. And frankly that's one of the reason stores are important.

Our strongest growth is in areas where we have the best distribution of a store network. Not that that's the only part of distribution, but it's a critical part for acquisition.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : One thing that I would add to that is that our deposits are disproportionately core deposits, operational deposits, relationship types of deposits, and less so institutional deposits from people who are probably more inclined to immediately shift out as the Fed does whatever they're going to do to drain reserves from the system and to tighten monetary policy, if that ever happens. And as a result we feel like we've got a stickier deposit base.

And all things being equal, if we were -- if it was a question of losing deposits versus retaining them we obviously have the ability to price our deposits to compete with whatever the alternative investment opportunity -- or savings opportunity is for our customers. Because we're sitting here with a full-service capability and lots of levers in the relationships that we have. So unlike some firms that probably have a higher percentage of institutional deposits that are seeking the last basis point of yield, I don't think -- I think we compare favorably in terms of deposit stickiness.

BILL CARCACHE: Thank you. That's very helpful. I had a second question on the rate environment.

Assuming that we do start to see the Fed funds rate increase next year, how are you thinking about the potential for an environment where the Fed 's taking rates higher at short end of the curve, but demand for treasuries remains strong at the long end such that we end up with a flatter curve? How are you guys positioned to perform in that kind of environment?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That would actually be not a bad outcome at all because we would have less capital pressure on long rates backing up on our bond portfolio and we'd be benefiting as loans and other LIBOR linked assets reprice on the -- at the short end. So at least with respect to those two drivers of accounting outcomes, those would be favorable.

BILL CARCACHE: Excellent. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Was hoping you could spend just a moment or two talking about the operating losses just given the trajectory. I know they were up substantially in the second quarter and then up another bit again. I can imagine, given some of the conversations that we've had on the regulatory issues what might be driving that, but can you spend a second maybe discussing when or how or even why those might crest and then hopefully begin to ebb back down?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, we've mentioned that this month's elevated -- or this quarter's elevated level reflects primarily litigation accruals. And as a result there's not much more specific color we can offer except to point you to our crystal clear disclosure in our Qs and K that describe everything that's probable and estimable and then some.

And it's like anything else, it's hard to know whether you're cresting or not until you're on the other side of it. So we feel this is a somewhat higher level than it's been recently. And we think it's well disclosed.

SCOTT SIEFERS: All right. Sounds good. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Vining Sparks.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, VINING SPARKS: I wanted to talk about two different lines of questioning more long term in nature. One is that as your pulling your short-term assets higher by about $25 billion each quarter, and you mentioned that in terms of liquidity, but it's also adding about 2% to your asset sensitivity every quarter.

So it just seems like you're looking at the level of opportunities that you have in deciding to forgo the yields of today and the hope for better yields tomorrow increasing asset sensitivity. John, I just want to get your feel for how you're kind of managing that decision you mentioned several times?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, it's a complex decision. It involves our asset and liability committee and a lot of discussion among Management from time to time.

The items that you just mentioned tend to be a little bit backward looking because you don't know what a quarter's loan growth is until it's happened and floating rate loan growth contributes to asset sensitivity. The governing factor is probably what our capital sensitivity is to a backup in rates if we deploy into duration instruments and out of cash equivalents.

And getting that right is important so that we don't find ourselves with higher rates that we've always been waiting for and a higher level of economic activity, which would probably mean more non interest income generation, more loan growth, lot of exciting activity, and at the same time be damaging our capital to the point that we couldn't take full advantage of it. And so that is one of those marginal drivers that probably causes us to be a little bit more in cash or a little bit more asset sensitive than versus being more fully invested today.

MARTY MOSBY: But at least looking back funding sources of long-term debt and sticky deposit to growth with growth in short-term liquid assets, naturally I guess I just want to make sure we're both agreeing that that makes you more asset sensitive each quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That makes us more asset sensitive. That's right.

MARTY MOSBY: And just real quickly the other line of thinking was John, how have you increased the growth in households and businesses? Moving that number up a full percentage point on the consumer side and two full percentage points on the business side long term is a big driver. How do you see the source of those and is that sustainable at these higher levels?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, it's hard to know whether it's sustainable because again, that's forward-looking. It's -- the reason that it's happening is a result of the quality of our people, the quality of our products, the execution of our business model, and a consistent application of the value proposition that we're bringing.

And it's paying dividends like we thought that it would, hoped that it would. Where it goes in the future is a function of a variety of inputs that are hard to know. But we like our competitive standing, and so to the extent that we're growing faster than our large and regional bank competition, we're not surprised by it and that's what we expect.

MARTY MOSBY: And would you see that in the traditional markets or more in -- you've got the Wachovia markets and the franchise now pulled together. So are you really getting traction and being able to attract new customers now that you've got all that processed?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I think they're all traditional markets now.

JOHN STUMPF : Exactly. (laughter) We don't --

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I understand. I didn't know if incrementally you're getting some new households in those newer let's say markets.

JOHN STUMPF : We're getting them in all of our markets.

MARTY MOSBY: All right. Thanks.

JOHN STUMPF : They're all good to us.

MARTY MOSBY: Appreciate it. Thank you, all.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush , NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH , ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: This is sort of an overarching question, John and John, that goes to a lot of the stuff we're hearing not only on your call but on the JPMorgan Chase call about these continuing calls for increased capital, all these other new requirements that are being put on the industry to which there is seemingly no end. And I'm sure you've read this in the press as well. This beginning characterization of the banking industry as the new electric utility.

Are the regulators trying to enforce so much conformity on the industry that they're going to do away with the dynamism and the inventiveness of the banking industry? John, could you just give us, either John, just give us some perspective on that and when do you think that indeed is happening?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, there's no question that they --the regulatory, the global regulatory community keeps, apparently keeps adding onto both capital and liquidity requirements that are going to have the combined effect of changing business models, increasing operating costs or financing costs, and then applying that to an increased denominator of equity in the ROE calculation to an industry that widely speaking, broadly speaking other than Wells Fargo and perhaps some regional banks has not been overachieving in returns over the last couple of years.

So if you roll the tape forward, I assume that that gets mathematically worse before it gets better unless a higher rate environment, a higher growth environment, or real optimization on the part of the most impacted banks in terms of changing their business model allows them to perform at a higher level.

So I think it is -- it's a consequence of what you're describing. It is happening and we can't tell how anybody else is going to deal with it, but as I mentioned earlier, we're proud to have continued to generate a top of the peer group type of set of returns in spite of the amount of capital that we are carrying and the ample liquidity that we're carrying too.

JOHN STUMPF : Nancy, it's an interesting question. And there's no question that there's been increases. Some of them are settled. And different issues become binding constraints in different ways.

Of our business 97% of our revenues come from the US. We love our international business but our dominant part of our business is here. It makes it a bit easier for us.

And the challenge and I think the opportunity for leadership is to make sure that we do both. We meet or exceed the requirements on the capital liquidity and those side and also we continue to invest in things that attract team members to us, attract customers to us, be dynamic in the marketplace, differentiating.

And we're so embedded in the real economy that the things we're doing continue to allow us to grow that business. So, can never predict the future. But that's a challenge for us as leaders, to do both.

NANCY BUSH : John, do you see yourself, John Stumpf , do you see yourself as having to change your plans for growth, either businesses that you would like to be in? Do you see that you might have to divest any of your present businesses should this sort of regulatory mindset continue and intensify?

JOHN STUMPF : At this point in time, the answer is no. Because again, virtually everything we do here starts with our customer. And we look at relationship, value, and pricing and different businesses have different returns and so forth.

And we're always thinking about, adjusting like few last quarter we sold some smaller insurance offices. Doesn't mean we don't like the insurance business we just -- but see there's always things that are going on, but there's nothing in anything I see today that would say, I can't be in this business or we can't be in that business, as it relates to customers.

NANCY BUSH : Okay. All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Kevin Barker, Compass Point.

KEVIN BARKER, ANALYST, COMPASS POINT RESEARCH & TRADING: I noticed that you had quite a bit of increasing construction loans quarter-over-quarter after basically staying flat for several years. Is there something in particular that's causing the development and expansion of construction loans? Or is that something that you're looking at as like an initiative going forward?

JOHN STUMPF : Well you know we're the largest commercial real estate lender in the country. And as I said someplace recently you fly around, go into any city it looks like the crane convention going on. I mean, there's a lot of commercial activity going on. And we serve that community in that sector of the economy.

There's also, housing is better than it has been in the past. So I think it reflects more the natural activity happening in the marketplace as opposed to us changing our strategy somehow.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. And then in regards to the student loan business, are you still planning on selling the FFELP portfolio by year end or can you talk about the overall investor appetite for these loans?

And then separately on the private side, I know this is a peak lending quarter for student loans. But could you provide any color around the demand trend from students given the overall level of student debt out there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : With respect to the first part of your question, we still do intend to shelve those loans. Can't really comment on the specifics.

The sale is moving forward, progressing as expected, and what I can tell you is like any other fixed income asset category in this highly liquid environment, there's plenty of interest. But in terms of whether it happens in the fourth quarter or later, I don't want to be too specific.

We remain very committed to private student lending, and of course our student lending team now will be even more focused on our private business once we've sold the FFELP loans. And with respect to whether demand after accounting for seasonality as you mentioned has changed or not changed, we are at a point in time when a very high number of people are already student borrowers.

But it's still one of the three or four most important things that our customers do. They buy a home, they buy a car, they finance their education, then they save for retirement. And we expect that to continue.

KEVIN BARKER: Okay. Thank you for taking my questions.

JOHN STUMPF : Okay. I think we're done with the call now. I want to first of all thank all of you for joining us and thank our 265,000 team members across our Company for an outstanding quarter.

If you look at the drivers of long-term growth, loans, deposits, capital, the liquidity we have, the household growth, it sure makes us optimistic about the future. We operate within our ROA, ROE, and efficiency ratio targets that we had provided a couple years ago.

And we're really proud that we've returned more capital to you, our owners. So we're well-positioned for the future and we'll see you in 90 days. Thank you very much everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020141016eaae00105
  


 HD
 Q2  2014 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,579 words
   PD
11 July 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe , Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE , DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf , and our CFO, John Shrewsberry , will discuss second-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf .

JOHN STUMPF , CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and good morning to everyone. Thank you for joining us today.

The second quarter was another strong quarter for Wells Fargo . We earned $5.7 billion in the quarter by our continued focus on creating long-term shareholder value through meeting our customers' financial needs, including growing loans and deposits, and deepening our relationships with our customers. Let me highlight our growth during the second quarter compared with a year ago.

We generated earnings of $5.7 billion, up 4% from a year ago, and earnings per share of $1.01 per share, up 3% from a year ago. We had strong and broad-based loan growth, and our core loan portfolio is up $51.3 billion or 7%.

Our credit performance continued to improve, with total net charge-offs down $435 million or 38% from a year ago. And our net charge-off ratio was only 35 basis points annualized on average loans.

Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong growth, with total deposits up $97 billion or 9%. We have grown deposits by an average of $265 million every day over the past year.

We deepened relationships across our Company. Retail banking cross-sell was 6.17 products per household; Wholesale Banking cross-sell was 7.2 products; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement cross-sell was 10.44 products.

We reduced expenses from a year ago, while we continued to invest in our businesses, including strengthening our risk management infrastructure. We also followed through on our commitment to maintain strong capital ratios while returning more capital to shareholders.

In the second quarter we increased our common stock dividend by 17% and continued to reduce our share count. We returned a net $3.6 billion to shareholders in the second quarter, up significantly from $1.6 billion a year ago.

I am also proud that during the second quarter Wells Fargo was ranked the most respected bank in the world and the 11th most respected company overall according to Barron's Magazine's 2014 ranking of the world's most respected companies. This recognition is a result of our dedicated team members remaining focused on our consistent vision and their commitment to meeting our customers' financial needs.

While the economic recovery remains uneven, there are many indicators that economic growth is accelerating, and we remain optimistic about the opportunities the recovery provides for Wells Fargo and for our customers. The strong improvement in employment in June demonstrated the strength in the labor market, with unemployment at the lowest level since September 2008.

The housing market rebound remained on track, with home prices up 8% from a year ago and up 25% from the low in June 2011. Despite these increases, home affordability continued to remain attractive due to historically low mortgage rates and rising household incomes.

In June, the Conference Board 's measure of consumer confidence reached a 6-year high, and vehicle sales reached an 8-year high. The economy is also benefiting from strong energy production, with domestic crude oil production running at the highest level in 26 years; and our reliance on foreign energy sources has been falling for nearly a decade.

I am confident that the economic recovery and our diversified business model will continue to provide opportunities for future growth as we remain focused on helping our customers meet their financial needs.

Now John Shrewsberry , our CFO, will provide more details on our second-quarter results. John?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY , SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Wells Fargo had a very strong quarter, as demonstrated by fundamental drivers of long-term growth. We earned $5.7 billion in the second quarter, down $167 million from the first quarter; but keep in mind, our results last quarter included a $423 million discrete tax benefit, an $0.08 per share impact. Our pretax income grew $303 million from the first quarter.

Revenue grew from first quarter, including both net interest income and noninterest income. Core loans grew 8% annualized, and average deposits grew 9% annualized.

We grew pretax pre-provision profit for the third consecutive quarter, and credit quality continued to improve. Capital remained strong, and we returned more capital to shareholders. I will highlight the drivers of this growth throughout the call today.

As John highlighted and as you can see on page 3, we had strong year-over-year growth in loans and deposits. Our growth in EPS and net income reflected this benefit, along with a reduction in expenses and an improvement in credit quality.

Our results were driven by momentum across many of our businesses. One way to demonstrate this business momentum is through noninterest income growth.

Mortgage fees, while up from first quarter, were down $1.1 billion from a year ago due to lower refinancing volume. Excluding mortgage fees, fee income was up 9% from a year ago, reflecting broad-based growth in retail brokerage, deposit service charges, card fees, commercial real estate brokerage commissions, trust and investment management, merchant processing, and market-sensitive revenue.

That's the benefit of our diversification. We have over 90 businesses focused on meeting our customers' financial needs.

We also grew net interest income from a year ago. And as you know, growing net interest income measured in dollars has been our focus, as deposits and other sources of liquidity have grown more rapidly than loan demand or other attractive investment opportunities.

Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification. While our balance between net interest income and noninterest income has been consistent, the drivers of noninterest income can vary each quarter. For example, equity investments were 9% of our fee income in the first quarter but declined to 4% in the second quarter.

Other businesses such as deposits, investment banking, and mortgage contributed more to fee income this quarter, resulting in overall fee income growth, demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model.

Let me highlight some of the key drivers of our second-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective, starting on page 5. Our balance sheet has never been stronger. Capital, liquidity, asset quality, funding mix are all exceedingly strong.

We increased average earning assets by 3% from the first quarter by growing loans, increasing short-term investments in trading assets and purchasing securities. In addition, our credit quality continued to improve. Investment securities increased $8.7 billion from first quarter, reflecting $17 billion of purchases, primarily U.S. Treasuries and federal agency debt, partially offset by runoff.

We also improved our liquidity position in response to continued heightened regulatory expectations. We issued $7.8 billion of liquidity-related long-term debt and increased liquidity-related short-term funding by $5.9 billion. Total short-term investments grew to $238.7 billion, which helps us meet our regulatory obligations and provides dry powder to grow loans and invest in securities.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, revenue grew $441 million, with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income. The $246 million growth in noninterest expense was primarily due to higher revenue-based incentive compensation and deferred compensation expense, and an increase in operating losses primarily from litigation accruals related to various legal matters. I will explain the drivers of our expenses in more detail later on the call.

Income tax expense increased from the first quarter, which included a $423 million discrete tax benefit.

As shown on page 7, we continued to have strong, broad-based loan growth in the second quarter, our 12th consecutive quarter of year-over-year growth, even with the continued reduction in our liquidating portfolio of $56.5 billion over the same time period. Our core portfolio, which excludes our liquidating portfolio, grew by $51.3 billion or 7% from a year ago, and was up $15.2 billion or 8% annualized from the first quarter.

Period-end loans were up $29 billion or 4% from a year ago, and up $2.5 billion from the first quarter. This growth was impacted by the transfer of $9.7 billion of government-guaranteed student loans to held-for-sale, which removes them from total loans.

These student loans have been included within our liquidating portfolio since we stopped originating them in 2010. We transferred this portfolio to held-for-sale at the end of the second quarter, reflecting our intent to sell our entire government-guaranteed portfolio.

However we remain committed to the private student lending business. Excluding this transfer, total loans would have increased to $12.2 billion or 6% annualized linked quarter.

On page 8 we highlight how broad-based our loan growth continues to be at Wells Fargo . C&I loans were up $19.4 billion or 10% from a year ago, as we successfully grew loans across our commercial businesses including asset-backed, corporate, government, commercial, and asset-based.

Real estate 1-4 family first mortgage loans grew $7.3 billion or 3%, with growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages, primarily jumbo loans. Foreign loans grew $6.2 billion or 15% from a year ago, reflecting growth in trade finance and the UK commercial real estate acquisition we completed in the third quarter of last year.

Auto loans were up $5.5 billion or 11%, reflecting strong originations, as we remained the number-one auto lender in the country while maintaining our focus on pricing for risk. Commercial real estate loans were up $4.4 billion or 4%, reflecting new originations and an acquisition in the third quarter of last year.

Credit card balances were up $2.4 billion or 10%, with new accounts up 4%. Our growth rate has been above the industry average, reflecting new account growth, product enhancements, and increased usage among our existing customers.

Deposit growth also remained strong in the second quarter, with average deposits growing $91.7 billion or 9% from a year ago, and up $24.2 billion from the first quarter, up 9% annualized. Average deposits totaled $1.1 trillion, and we benefited from strong growth in both commercial and consumer balances.

Our average deposit costs declined to 10 basis points in the second quarter, down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 4 basis points from a year ago. Our ability to generate strong deposit growth while reducing deposit costs demonstrated the fundamental strength of our outstanding deposit franchise. We have been able to grow deposits by offering best-in-class class products, an excellent customer experience, and robust multichannel options.

Our primary consumer checking customers were up 4.6% from a year ago. Our ability to grow primary customers is important to our results, because these customers have more interactions with us, have higher cross-sell, and are more than twice as profitable as non-primary customers.

As shown on page 10, tax-equivalent net interest income increased $184 million from first quarter, benefiting from an additional day in the quarter, organic loan growth, and higher mortgages held-for-sale and trading assets. Our NIM declined from the first quarter to 3.15%, driven by customer deposit growth, which was essentially neutral to net interest income but reduced the margin by approximately 5 basis points.

Liquidity-related actions we took in the second quarter to meet increased regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by 1 basis point. However, higher income from variable sources, including higher PCI resolutions and periodic dividends, offset this decline. Balance sheet repricing and growth once again did not impact the NIM this quarter, as the majority of the repricing from the higher-rate environment to the current-rate environment is behind us.

Noninterest income increased $265 million from the first quarter with growth across our diversified businesses, including mortgage banking, investment banking, deposit service charges, card fees, retail brokerage, commercial real estate brokerage, and insurance offsetting the $460 million decline in market-sensitive revenue. Market-sensitive revenue declined 34% from first quarter, while all other noninterest income grew 8%.

Trust and investment fees increased $197 million or 6% from first quarter, on higher investment banking and retail brokerage asset-based fees. Mortgage banking grew $213 million from first quarter, up 14%, with growth in both originations and servicing.

The second quarter benefited from a seasonally stronger purchase market, with 74% of our originations coming from home purchases, up from 66% last quarter. Total originations increased to $47 billion, up 31%. Our unclosed pipeline increased to $30 billion at the end of the quarter, up 11%.

We also continued to see improvement in our net servicing results, with servicing revenue up $97 million from the first quarter, reflecting higher MSR hedge performance and an increase in net servicing fees, reflecting the benefit of lower servicing and foreclosure costs.

As shown on page 12, expenses were up $246 million from the first quarter, while our efficiency ratio remained at 57.9%, reflecting our revenue growth. The key drivers of our expenses included: personnel expenses declined $106 million from the first quarter, which included seasonally elevated incentive compensation and benefit costs; salaries increased as expected due to annual merit increases and one extra day in the quarter.

Personnel expenses included $130 million of higher revenue-based incentive compensation in the second quarter, which is the type of expense increase we like to see, because we are growing the top line. Additionally, personnel expenses were impacted by $84 million in higher deferred compensation expense, which is offset in trading revenue.

Outside professional services and advertising expenses increased from the first-quarter levels, which tend to be seasonally lower. Operating losses increased $205 million from the first quarter, largely due to litigation accruals for various legal matters.

We remain focused on managing expenses, and we expect our efficiency ratio will remain within our target range of 55% to 59% for the third quarter.

Turning to our business segments, starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $3.4 billion in the second quarter, up 6% from a year ago and down 11% from first quarter, primarily from higher taxes. Retail banking cross-sell was 6.17 products per household, up from 6.14 a year ago.

Our debit and credit card businesses continued to grow, benefiting from account growth and higher usage. Debit card purchase volume was up 8% from a year ago, driven by primary checking customer growth.

Credit card purchase volume was up 16% from a year ago, with new account growth and more active accounts. Active accounts were up 14% as the Wells Fargo credit card is becoming more top-of-wallet for our customers. Credit card household penetration increase to 39%, up from 35% a year ago.

We remain committed to serving our small business customers and have increased primary business checking account customers 5.2% from a year ago. During the second quarter we launched Wells Fargo Works for Small Business, an initiative that provides guidance and services to small business owners. This new initiative has resulted in strong engagement with small businesses across the country, including millions of views of our online video series and increased traffic to WellsFargoWorks.com.

Wholesale Banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter, down 3% from a year ago and up 12% from the first quarter. Loan growth remained strong and broad-based across businesses, up 8% from a year ago and up 2% from first quarter.

Capital finance increased $2 billion from first quarter, driven by higher utilization rates, new customer growth, and growth in factoring assets. Commercial banking grew $1.8 billion from the first quarter, with widespread growth across geographies and industries.

Commercial real estate grew $1.4 billion, driven by new loan originations, including customer M&A activity. In addition corporate banking, government and institutional banking, asset-backed finance, and equipment finance portfolios all grew from the first quarter.

Revenue increased 7% from the first quarter, reflecting diversified growth across a number of Wholesale Banking businesses. Investment banking revenue growth was broad-based across product categories. Eastdil Secured, our commercial real estate brokerage business, increased revenue with strong performance in public and private markets.

Asset management fees grew from increased market valuations and inflows. Total assets under management increased $35 billion from a year ago.

Long-term assets including equity and fixed-income strategies were up 12%, while money market funds declined by 4% from a year ago. This shift out of money market funds moderated growth in total assets under management; but revenue benefited from the shift to higher fee-generating long-term assets.

Wholesale Banking revenue also benefited from the sale of 40 insurance offices in the quarter.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $544 million in the second quarter, up 25% from a year ago and up 15% from the first quarter. The strong year-over-year results reflected 9% revenue growth driven by recurring revenue.

Net interest income was up 11% from a year ago, and asset-based fees were up 14%, benefiting from market performance and continued client demand for plan-based advisory solutions. Our brokerage advisory assets have grown to $409 billion, up $78 billion or 24% from a year ago.

Loan growth remained strong, with average loans up 12% from a year ago, driven by growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages and security-based lending. We also benefited from the partnership involving WBR and Community Banking to better meet our customers' savings, retirement planning, and investment needs; and we increased the number of private bankers in our banking stores by 22% from a year ago.

Turning to page 16, credit quality continued to improve, with second-quarter credit losses down $108 million from first quarter and the net charge-off ratio declining to 35 basis points of average loans. Losses in our commercial portfolio were only 3 basis points of average loans; and consumer losses continued to decline to 62 basis points.

Nonperforming assets have declined for seven consecutive quarters and were down $686 million from first quarter, although the pace of improvement has slowed. We had a $500 million reserve release, the same as in first quarter. We continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy, but expect a lower level of future releases as the rate of credit improvement slows and the loan portfolio continues to grow.

Our estimated Common Equity Tier 1 show under Basel III using the Advanced Approach, fully phased-in, increase to 10.09% in the second quarter. Our share count declined in the quarter, reflecting the repurchase of 39.4 million common shares; and we executed a $1 billion forward repurchase contract that is expected to settle in the third quarter for approximately 19.4 million shares. We expect our share count to continue to decline throughout 2014 as a result of anticipated net share repurchases.

We also increased our dividend to $0.35 per share in the second quarter, a 17% increase. Our net payout ratio in the second quarter was 66%, in line with our recent guidance of 55% to 75%.

In summary, our results in the second quarter demonstrated the momentum across our fundamental business drivers, including growing loans and deposits, increasing both net interest income and noninterest income, while credit improved and capital remained strong. While we have demonstrated our ability to grow during a variety of economic and interest rate environments, we are well positioned to benefit from an improving economy and higher rates.

Our diversified business model provides us with many opportunities to better meet our customers' financial needs as economic growth becomes more robust. Our strong balance sheet, with our large balance of short-term investments primarily driven by our strong deposit growth, provides us the ability to further grow loans and invest in securities.

We are optimistic that our outstanding franchise and our focus on serving the real economy will continue to produce strong results. We will now open up the call for your questions. Jim?

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Hi, good morning. John, was wondering on the legal side of things. Can you give us a sense of what type of legal issues you are building reserves for?

And also, can you comment whether you are having discussions with the DOJ and mortgage task force, made up of the state AGs, that other banks are having discussions with?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : The best disclosure for our legal activity is found in our Q and our K, where there is great detail on items that are probable and estimable and, frankly, even more matters. We can't comment on anything specifically. The items that I referred to in the expense section are a variety of matters that essentially added up to the number that you saw.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. On the loan growth side, can you comment what you are seeing in terms of utilization of lines by your customers? Is that getting better? What's driving what appears to be a slight acceleration in the loan growth you saw this quarter?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We called out one area where there has been an increase in utilization in the comments; and that was in capital finance. But overall in Wholesale Banking utilization is relatively flat.

It's ticked up just a little bit. So this loan growth isn't just driven by that.

JOHN STUMPF : John, the nice thing about the loan growth, it's broad-based. If you look at it, it's consumer, it's our private banking area, commercial, across the -- so it's really broad-based. And it's one of, I think, the strengths in what we've been doing the last number of quarters, but especially this quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. Then last thing for me, John, on the net interest income side of things. Do you know at this point, is the liquidity building that you have been doing, is that done? Or are you not sure yet on that front?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We think that where we stand today is probably about where we need to be. And if the final rulemaking around LCR comes in a little bit differently, then the actions that we have to take shouldn't materially change things. So we're about where we need to be.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And it seems that the churn has stopped, with your reinvestment rates looking like they match your roll-off rates. So I guess from -- with that perspective in mind, are you looking to grow net interest income dollars in line with loan growth from here? Or are there other factors we should think about?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : You should look at the balance sheet at every period end and assess what types of inflows we have had of additional liquidity and what we have done with it. Some of it will be loan growth; there will be more security growth; there will be some that sits in cash while we wait to make decisions about securities investment. So the facts and circumstances will lead you down that path.

But back to your question about roll-off and roll-on, it appears that NIM isn't being diminished by a changing pricing scheme with respect to loans -- or securities for that matter -- because of what you described.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. And you're still looking to grow net interest income from the current levels? Do you still think you can do that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We are in --

JOHN STUMPF : Absolutely.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets .

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, everyone. I guess first was just following up on John's question on the loan growth. I guess specifically in C&I end-of-period loans were up a little over $9 billion or almost 5% sequentially, the strongest increase of the past year.

I was just curious a little bit more what is driving that. Are you seeing signs of increased confidence among borrowers and maybe more of a willingness to make investments?

JOHN STUMPF : Joe, this is John Stumpf . We are seeing that. As I am out talking with customers and out talking with our team, there is -- as I mentioned in my opening comments, there is more optimism. I think consumer confidence is at a 6-year high.

It's not breakout, but we are having more discussions with more customers about buying homes, buying autos, investing in infrastructure if they're a business, buying something.

We're a real economy company. We're in the real economy, and there are certain sectors of the economy that are doing very well.

We are a big energy lender both on the renewables side and the hydrocarbon side. Commercial real estate has been very good for us, middle market. So it's very broad-based.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That's great. Thanks. I guess the other question was just if you could talk a little bit more about what your experience has been in mortgage with the spring selling season.

And how do you feel about both volumes and staffing levels for the rest of the year there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Sure. Well, we have been pretty clear on the record that we found the spring selling season to be a little less than we originally imagined, although it's nice growth from the first quarter, just based on the time of year. And our view on the whole year in terms of mortgage origination is not inconsistent with the MBA and other published metrics.

So you can see our pipeline going into the third quarter: higher than it was going into the second. So that probably means good things for the third quarter relative to the second quarter. The margins are holding in there.

But we're not seeing breakout returns to precrisis levels of the enthusiasm around homeownership. So the purchase market is softer than we thought that it would be.

JOE MORFORD: Is that likely to drive any other rightsizing on the staffing side? Or do you feel pretty good about where you stand there?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I think that's been a -- we've been very good at being flexible about that workforce and adding as we needed to, as production volumes increased, and then making changes as production volumes decreased. So I think we are keeping that in sync with the production opportunity.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America Merrill Lynch .

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Good morning. My first question is a follow-up to John's line of questioning. The first is if you feel like you are where you need to be in terms of liquidity.

And the majority of the repricing from the higher interest rate environment as you said, John, to the current interest rate environment is behind you. Can we assume that Wells Fargo 's net interest margin is close to the bottom, with the wild card being deposit growth being stronger -- continuing to be stronger?

JOHN STUMPF : I would say it this way, Erika. Again, we don't manage to the margin. Deposit growth has an impact on the margin. What we are saying is we're focused on growing net interest income, and we believe we can do that.

Loan demand has been good, and that is good for growing net interest income. Secondly, we have millions of dollars available in that cash flow, if you will, to make investments at the right time. So we're optimistic about growing net interest income over the long term.

The margin will be impacted by -- cost growth has a big influence on that, and again most of that is neutral to income. It's not neutral to the margin.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: And just the second follow-up question, just as we think about the next quarter's earnings power. I notice in the appendix that you did reclassify about $2 billion from nonaccretable difference to accretable yield. And you're expecting the yields on the Pick-a-Pay portfolio or the accretable percentage should be 6.15% from 4.98% this quarter.

Is that going to have a positive impact on net interest margin on a sequential basis, as we take into account all the different components of the core balance sheet that we talked about so far in this call?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : You should think about that as worth about $65 million per quarter in terms of incremental accreted interest income. That is related to the $1.9 billion re-class from nonaccretable yield to accretable yield, and over the life that it will accrete under, and based on the balance it's related to.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Is that helpful?

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Yes. And the third follow-up question is another follow-up to John's. I know you're not going to answer any questions about litigation in depth. But I guess as we think about further accruals in your litigation reserve, can we expect, as we think about the next few quarters, Wells Fargo continuing to maintain that 55% to 59% efficiency ratio despite potential higher operating losses from legal accrual?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I would say that given everything that we know, we anticipate operating between 55% and 59%.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks, good morning. First question just on the mortgage business. I was just wondering if you could drill in on two things.

First of all, just your general sense of the gain-on-sale environment. Obviously it's continued to reset lower. But do you think we have gotten to a more stable base here?

JOHN STUMPF : Yes, I do. I think the margins have been running in that 140 to 160 range; and from what we see today there is rationality in pricing, and those margins look reasonable to us. We have no reason to believe it will be markedly different from that in the near future.

KEN USDIN: And my second mortgage question is then: the servicing fees line has had a nice expansion, but with the book not growing and rates back down. So I'm wondering, can you give us some context of what the growth driver has been underneath that servicing fees line?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Yes. Well, it has a lot to do with servicing expenses. So fewer unreimbursed expenses coming through, fewer foreclosure and default expenses. So it's a more efficient servicing operation, and more of the net fee is flowing to the bottom line.

KEN USDIN: Okay. So we will see that all in the Q?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Yes.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Then my third question is just on capital and capital return. Clearly $0.35 dividend; you earned $1.01; so above the 30% threshold that we've known to be the benchmark.

So given that we are now past this year's stress test, can you just give us your thoughts around flexibility around and above that 30%? And kind of your post-game on how you have looked at this year's stress test process in that regard.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We think a 66% payout ratio with the combination of repurchase and dividend is an excellent spot to be in. It's between the goalposts that we set up, 55% to 75%.

Can't be much more precise than that. But we hear our shareholders loud and clear that they want more return of capital. We're committed to executing on that.

So that's about all there is to say. And we're looking forward to the CCAR process.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Then my last tiny one related to that is just -- the buyback was bigger, the share count just dripped lower. How close are we to finally getting that average diluted share count really starting to move downward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's a good question. You can see the point-to-point numbers that have changed. The average is what it is just because of the timing in the quarter between when we issued shares to our benefit plans, and when shares were repurchased.

The repurchase was a little bit more even throughout the quarter, and the issuance was a little bit more front-end loaded. So the average didn't change as much as the point-to-point.

But it will probably be like that during quarters where there's slightly heavier issuance. But yet we expect the net number to trend down the way we have described it.

KEN USDIN: Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, what was the amount of gain on the sale of the 40 insurance branches?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : About $100 million.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Conceptually was there anything that offset that? I guess you had the increase in litigation accruals of $200 million. Anything else that would be kind of nonpermanent?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It's tough to describe expenses as permanent or nonpermanent. I know you are looking for an offset for that nonrecurring revenue; but the expense story is the efficiency ratio story.

If we've got, for example this quarter, higher incentive compensation related to revenue growth that's going to move things around. We've got our deferred comp hedging that moves things around. So it's hard to give you a neat offset to that.

MIKE MAYO: How about the run rate in minority expense? There was a decline and that helped a little bit. Is that permanent?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It's hard to say whether that's permanent or not. We will work with Jim Rowe and get you something specific so we can be responsive to that.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Then the increase in investment banking linked quarter was up a lot. Can you give any context to that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Yes. It's broad-based, so there is some equity capital markets, debt capital markets, loan syndications, M&A activity. It was just a busier quarter.

I think our investment banking's share might have ticked up a little bit. But the whole market was busier in the second quarter than it was in the first quarter.

MIKE MAYO: And mortgage originations, as you mentioned they were up linked quarter. It seemed a little bit better than what you were saying at the Investor Day. So were things a little bit better? And if so, why?

I know it's not as much as you originally thought for the spring selling season. But that's a little bit of a bump, and I guess you expect a little more of a bump in the third quarter.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, the gain was at the low end of the range, which is how we thought about it and described it at Investor Day. And in terms of volumes they were -- I think we feel about the same as we did 6 weeks ago, which is it was less than we had originally anticipated.

So we feel about the same. We're glad the results are good. They're certainly up seasonally quarter over quarter. But we might have imagined a little bit more going into the year.

JOHN STUMPF : Mike, about 74% of our originations, our production this quarter was purchase money, and that really plays into our hand. We have long-term relationships with realtors and builders.

We have a wonderful crew of people who are our team members who are out calling. So we should expect to do better vis-a-vis -- because others who don't have a sales force that's on the ground.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Then last question, I guess what -- I'd ask two sides of the same question. Are you taking too much risk in an area such as auto lending, where the loans are up 10% year-over-year? You have had some cautionary language from regulators, and it seems like every bank is expanding in auto lending. So are you concerned about that?

On the other hand are you taking enough risk? Because based on our models, which go back a couple decades, it looks like your net charge-off ratio for the Firm is the lowest ever in modern history. So that would say take more risk. So where do you come out on that decision?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, Mike, you hit both sides of it. I mean it is -- I think 35 basis points, it's the lowest I remember in my 30-some years with the Company.

And in the auto area specifically we look carefully at what's going on with FICO scores, and we look at delinquencies and a whole bunch of things there. So no, I don't think we are taking inappropriate risk. In fact I think we're taking the right risk and we're finding the right place.

After all, this is a business that we've been in a long time. We don't come in and show up and leave.

And secondly it's a short-dated asset that we know a lot about.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : And you will probably recall at Investor Day we had a specific slide and disclosure on the growth in the auto portfolio in particular that showed, among other things, over a long period of time what has been going on in our portfolio with FICO scores, average loan-to-value, and payment-to-income ratios of our auto customers. And each of those has improved not only over the last 5 years, but improved meaningfully from precrisis levels.

So the portfolio actually looks really good. Our relationship in autos and our business proposition there is that we own the relationship with dealers. We bank the dealers directly, provide them with floorplan financing; we provide them with real estate financing; we bank them personally.

And we are a very reliable take-out for indirect auto paper, and we get more than our fair share, as a result, of paper that we want. And the portfolio composition reflects that.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley .

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY : Hi, thanks much. A couple questions. One is on the mortgage origination side. I think you were doing some rollouts on July 1.

Just wanted to see how those executed, and now that that's behind you, are there any opportunities to make that side of the business more efficient.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : When you say rollouts, do you mean changes in headcount?

BETSY GRASECK: Well, there were some technology changes and some systems-related changes, process-related changes that you did effective July 1.

JOHN STUMPF : Well, you know, Betsy, we've been doing a number of those over a period of time to be more efficient and to give our sales force more information at the point-of-sale. But that's not a big issue. I mean, those things happen. That didn't have any impact on the business.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then just looking forward, a little bit less positive on the outlook for volumes for the full year. Is there any opportunity to peel back some of the investment in the production side of the business? Or are you sticking with your current plan at this stage?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We're very flexible about that and constantly reading what we think we need in terms of capacity. As you know, the workforce in that line of business has become a flexible workforce just because of the ebbs and flows of origination patterns, as a refinancing opportunity comes into the money and then goes away.

So I think we're very real-time in responding to what we think we need. And if we think that we need more because the third quarter opportunity seems bigger, then we will staff it up; and if we think that we need less, then we'll dial it back.

JOHN STUMPF : But Betsy, you're on an important point, and I think it's been asked a couple times this morning. In the mortgage business, besides having to be good underwriters, good servicers, and all those things, good at flexibility, ramping up and ramping down, is a core competency here. And if you're going to be in this business you have to be good at that.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. One other thing --

JOHN STUMPF : You never know where the volumes are going to be.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure; no. Then one of the things you did mention at Investor Day is that Mel Watt obviously had some suggestions for underwriting and potentially changing some of the elements of the grid; and I know that you had indicated that there were several meetings that you were going to be taking -- that were taking place with you and others in DC around those suggestions.

Can you give us any sense as to how those dialogues have been going? Any update on how you're thinking about underwriting in the credit box?

JOHN STUMPF : Those meetings with our mortgage company continue with Mel Watt and his team and others. I think the goal here is to get more credit appropriately to borrowers who want to own homes and who can afford homes. And that's in the interest of borrowers; it's in the interest of lenders like us; it's in the interest of the investors and the country.

So we're trying to harmonize that. Some things in the past created less harmony. You have low rates on one side encouraging borrowing; and you have put backs from the GSEs on the other side that make lenders less willing to lend money.

So we're trying to get everybody on the same page. I think he has been helpful in that, and obviously we're participating in that.

So -- and as we get more clarity there we can make loans, conforming loans, that serve more customers. That's the goal here.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. As I know you'd spent a lot of time with the FHA, and that at the margin helped open the credit box in certain parts. I mean, do you feel like you're at the stage where we're likely to see any changes come this year? Or it's really more of a next-year event with the GSEs?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, I'll tell you, predicting what happens in Washington on legislation is -- that's way above my pay scale. But the important point here is that there are some incremental changes happening, and that is helping open the credit box a bit, and appropriately so.

We are still doing full underwriting and those sort of things. But I hate to venture a guess on when GSE reform will become law.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. No, I was asking really more about when your credit box on GSEs would loosen up potentially, versus what had happened at the FHA where you have already loosened up a little bit there.

JOHN STUMPF : I understand. Okay. Well, we will keep working on that; and I think there is a lot of emphasis on making sure, again, appropriate customers get loans that they can repay.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : And capturing that first-time buyer, that lower credit quality customer will be very important to that customer when credit becomes available. But it's s not likely to change the overarching view of what the size of the mortgage market is in 2014 or 2015, and it's not likely to have a big impact on the earnings of mortgage originators.

There's not that much going on there. It's very important to them, but there aren't enough of those loans at 140 basis points to make a giant difference.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. It seems like from here the efficiency ratio will be increasingly important, just given how low the credit costs are at these levels, and you talked about maybe some less reserve release going forward. So just as we think about that efficiency ratio and being closer to the higher end, is there opportunity to migrate down in this environment?

And if so, how do we think about the expense opportunity versus growing revenues?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Sure. Well, I will start out by saying we're sticking with our 55% to 59%, because that's where we think we will be through the cycle.

We constantly focus on our efficiency. We spend a lot of time and have many programs that are designed to root out and to get to the bottom of the most efficient use in resources that we can have.

And that's important, because there are areas where we continue to spend and invest money to have the right people facing customers and invest in the right products for customers. There are also areas like risk management, compliance, technology, etc., where we're making increasing investments to build a better Company for the future.

So all that's going on at the same time, and it's what arrives at this 55% to 59%. You can rest assured that we are doing what we can to keep expenses efficient. But I wouldn't count on a big lever there moving down closer to 55%, all other things being equal, to drive near-term performance.

JOHN STUMPF : So a couple of examples of things that we're doing that you know about. Since the merger 5 years ago we've reduced the number of square feet that we use to house our people and for our stores and so forth from, let's say, 115 million or 117 million square feet to 94 million, 95 million square feet.

We are testing -- and successfully so -- a new urban store, if you will, neighborhood store. We now have three of those in the Washington area. It has a very different expense component, but still is just as productive.

So there's lots of things we're working on so we can use those dollars in savings to invest in other areas of the business that John mentioned. The expense, there is a lot of focus on that here; but not -- again, as I have said in the past, we are not slavish to it.

If our expenses go up because revenue is going up, that's a good thing. And we'll make the investments that we believe we need to make for the long-term success of the Company.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. So if I am hearing you correctly, as we think about the efficiency ratio going forward, there may be some opportunities for it to tick down a little bit, more dependent on revenue.

JOHN STUMPF : I would say yes, surely. It's a ratio, so it's a numerator and a denominator. We are working both sides of it.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : And as we have said publicly in the past, to the extent that we had revenue increases as a result of rates moving up we would probably migrate to the lower end of the efficiency ratio. Because those dollars of revenue don't have expense attached to them.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Yes, I'm harping on it because the efficiency ratio hasn't really moved the last several quarters. As we start thinking about the back half of the year and going forward the mortgage revenue comps get a lot easier, and it feels like we could start seeing some improvement there.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Have you noticed that we're best in class at the ratio where we currently operate?

MATT O'CONNOR : Understood. Fair point. Just separately on the tax rate, last quarter came in low; you called out that gain both at the time and then again today. But today's or the second-quarter tax rate seems a little bit higher than at least what we were looking for.

What is the outlook? Should we pencil in the 32% going forward?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Yes, you should pencil today's effective rate going forward. (multiple speakers)

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. Then just lastly, I had a follow-up on an earlier question. The mortgage servicing revenue that is coming from the MSR gains, that is writing up the MSR because the expenses to service the loans are coming down?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's right. The future cash flows are higher as a result of future expenses coming down -- current and future expenses coming down.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. It feels like there is still opportunity to reduce the cost of servicing going forward, which therefore would increase the value of the MSR. It feels like there is still more of that opportunity there.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : There may be. We're probably in the middle innings of perfecting servicing over time. There's still a more elevated level of troubled loans out there compared to what we hope the steady-state is years from now.

And when that happens it will be in the future, and the benefit of it will be the discounted then-future benefit of it. But you are right, there is probably opportunity at some point in the future.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. All right, that's helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Keith Murray, ISI.

KEITH MURRAY, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Thanks a lot. Can you spend a minute on cards? You obviously have increased penetration impressively on the card side. Just a question: From penetration to actual usage, how long does it take?

Obviously you guys have shown very solid loan growth on the card side. But how difficult, once they get a card from Wells, to get them to start using it, to move up the pecking order versus other cards?

JOHN STUMPF : This is an area that I think is one of our biggest opportunities in the Company. If you look at Wells being -- as we always talk about -- in the real economy, we have leadership roles in a variety of lending classes, whether autos, in consumer, small business, real estate. And we are just passionate about helping our retail customers understand the value of having a Wells Fargo card -- and not only in their wallet, but top-of-wallet.

There were some areas that we were underserving, especially our affluent and emerging affluent customers. And our partnership with American Express is off to a very good start; obviously we do a lot of things with Visa , an important -- and MasterCard -- partners of ours.

But we can sell a card to a customer at a fraction of the cost of someone else from the outside. We know these people better, and we can give them better products. We have a lot of exciting benefits that we're giving as part of the card offering.

And it's not only having the balances there; it's being involved with the customer on the payment side. So when we merged the two companies a little over 5 years ago, Wachovia came without a portfolio because they had sold their card business off. So we were at about a 22% penetration rate; today we're at 39%.

I always tell our people: Do you know how many of our consumers have credit cards? They all do. In fact, they have more than one card.

Now, I don't know that we can get to 100%, but we are marching smartly up the line. And you're right; it's not only about the number of plastic cards we have outstanding: it's the ones that are being used.

I am thrilled with what we are doing. We still have a lot more work to do. A big opportunity for us.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's right. And it's both in the balances as well as the interchange (multiple speakers) utilization.

JOHN STUMPF : And it just works beautifully.

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. Just switching gears to OLA, you had given us your thoughts on that on Investor Day. Obviously you guys issued some long-term debt this quarter.

Do you feel like you're getting close to where you're going to wind up needing to be, for OLA? Or any updated thoughts and things you're hearing from Washington on that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I wouldn't -- there is no real updated intelligence. We still are hearing and are of a mind that the range that will probably be published at some point in the future is in the high teens to low 20%s in terms of loss absorption cushion. We see ourselves on a risk-based approach at the low end of that range and at or within striking distance of that range.

So based on everything that we know today, we don't anticipate it having a material impact on Wells Fargo .

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. Then just finally for me, we have read a lot about the SNC review and regulators focus on leveraged loans, etc. Just can you give us any thoughts related to that? And any changes you have seen this year in how the regulators are approaching it versus past years?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, they're talking about it a lot and there's multiple regulators talking about it a little bit differently. So I think there is an effort to harmonize their points of view. But obviously they've got a big focus on what's going on with leveraged lending inside of banks. And banks mean different things depending on which regulator and which firms they're covering.

So I would anticipate more clarity sometime later this year or maybe beyond that. But it really is an effort to understand what's going on and at some level to encourage certain types of behavior and discourage others.

And the big emphasis is on the most levered and most collateral-free leveraged lending. We don't anticipate it having an extraordinary impact on Wells Fargo , based on our business mix.

KEITH MURRAY: Got you. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous Research.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Hi, I was wondering if I could ask about deposit growth in the rising-rate scenario. I guess if I oversimplify the two schools of thought or the two ends of the spectrum are: deposits have only shrank industrywide in 2 of the past 90 years, and those were pretty marginal declines; so you can kind of bank on industry deposits growing.

And then I guess JPMorgan was pretty explicit about the other end, where they feel like some of the need to drain liquidity out of the system as rates rise could drive deposits down as much as 10%. So I know there is a lot of uncertainty. Part of it depends on how the Fed acts.

But as you think about liquidity planning and stress testing you do internally, any thoughts on the range of best-case and worst-case deposit growth you think about?

JOHN STUMPF : Let me just give you a little overall how we think about it. I think one of the things that is maybe underappreciated about Wells today is the quality of our deposit franchise.

We have $1.1 trillion of deposits at 10 basis points; about $1 trillion of core deposits. And many of these -- most of these deposits are what I would call transactional, meaning that people use these deposits either out of their checking account or their savings account.

We only have $30 billion or $40 billion [Rs] of CDs. We have a very high-quality deposit base.

We are also growing primary checking accounts -- think about that -- the primary account by between 4.5% and 5% or a little over 5%, depending on whether it's small business or consumer. In fact these are some of the strongest growth numbers I've ever seen.

So because of the quality of our deposit franchise, the quality of our omnichannel delivery system -- and no one knows, of course. We can look back in history what happens with disintermediation, about when rates rise and so forth.

I'm of the opinion that you are going to see at least for the first couple hundred basis points move up in rates probably very little movement in disintermediation. You can make the argument that they will squeeze down M1 and M2 and some of the liquidity will come out of the system.

We've found over time, as you suggested earlier, that deposits generally grow. It might not grow as fast as it is, but I'm very confident about how our deposit franchise would perform in a rising rate environment.

BRIAN FORAN: That's very helpful. Maybe on the student loan sale, what's your thought process on the decision to sell as opposed to, I guess, the alternative of just letting it gradually run down over time?

Is it a capital free-up, or a regulatory? Or what's the benefit of selling out of it now?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Sure. Well, we had designated the government-guaranteed student loan business, which is distinct from our private student loan business that we're very committed to over the long-term. We had separated off the government-guaranteed part of the portfolio into a liquidating portfolio in 2010, when we stopped originating those loans as that market changed.

So they've been part of our runoff portfolio for that period of time and amortizing down a little bit. We see the opportunity in the market to move those loans off the books.

They are relatively low yielding. They are not strategic. We don't have bigger relationships with most of those customers, and thus the decision.

So we have transferred them all to held-for-sale status to signal this intent to sell. And we are going to go about the process in the next quarter or so.

BRIAN FORAN: If I could sneak a last one in on MSR hedging -- or I guess more specifically the line item you give of $475 million, the market-related valuation changes net of hedge results. I feel like -- I always strip that out of core EPS; I always set it at zero, and then I always end up being too low. It's almost always a positive number.

Is that a number that through the cycle you would expect to be kind of a wash? Or am I just missing that there is a carry component to it because of the way you structure the hedge and things like that?

Through the cycle it actually -- over the past 5 years it's averaged $200 million a quarter. And there is a volatile component to it, but through the cycle it should be some positive nonzero number?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It is a carry component. The bundle of instruments that we use to hedge the asset, to create the right duration profile as rates move up or down, we think that the change in value is neutralized. That bundle of instruments throws off positive carry.

It will depend on the shape or the slope of the yield curve at different points in time. And of course in the past it has been impacted by other expense items that have been flowing through. There are less of them today, so it's a little bit more stand-out in terms of its net.

And then there is also the influence of what happens when rates speed up or down, or prepayment rates speed up or not. And of course we have gone through a period recently where the asset has lengthened.

So there's a lot of different things going on there. It's not clear to me what through the cycle actually means in this context, because as rates move you're in different places; and as the shape of the curve moves you're in different places that are different than a business cycle or a credit cycle.

But you can look at the performance over some period of time and set whatever average you think is right. But I think zeroing it out is probably conservative.

BRIAN FORAN: That's very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch , Credit Suisse .

MOSHE ORENBUCH , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Great, thanks. Most of my questions have actually been asked and answered. But one quick thing, that the -- you have taken a big step up in capital return. Just talk a little bit about what might influence you to go to the very high end of your range or to the lower end of your range, in subsequent periods.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We're setting our expectations and our levels internally from one CCAR process to the next based on how we anticipate that we're going to earn and the negotiation, if you will, that we're having with regulators, which is part of what constructs the balance between dividend and repurchase. If you think about an annual payout -- or if we thought about an annual payout based on the annual number, it would be a calculated number in that range.

From quarter to quarter, as I mentioned earlier with respect to what happened to share count, we have got different things going on with share issuance, so that the net buyback will be bigger in some quarters than it is in others, which is going to make us look like we're bouncing around inside the range. And that's the reason for moving around inside the range.

Now, more importantly, if growth opportunities began to emerge in a more meaningful way where we needed to retain more capital to put it to work, then that would also be a driver. I think at Investor Day you will probably recall that Paul Ackerman went through an analysis of the amount of capital that we thought was appropriate to set aside for asset growth, and thus the amount of earnings necessary or available to distribute. So that's the starting process.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Just as a follow-up to that, any thoughts on portfolio acquisition opportunities in the current environment? Anything standing out?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I wouldn't say anything is standing out. We're out there looking in both consumer and commercial and commercial real estate assets.

I mentioned in the loan growth context that we've done a couple of commercial real estate acquisitions. These are all announced, but that have happened in the quarter -- or pardon me, that have happened in previous quarters. So we're looking at those.

We've talked about card programs like the Dillard's program, where we will be picking up a portfolio of receivables in addition to managing that card program going forward. There is more opportunity there.

So we're looking at lots of things. Some things make more sense than others, but that is an interesting way for us to add both assets and new customers to the bank.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Got you. Very last thing. Just on that (technical difficulty) sale, just two quick questions. Do you think you will sell it in one piece, or do you think you'd break it up into pieces? And do you service that portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : With respect to the first half of the question, it depends. We would be willing to sell it in one piece. It is a big number, so it may happen in component pieces.

And on the second half, we do not service those loans.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Got you. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Yes, thank you very much. On the mortgage production side, the $47 billion that you guys produced, how much did you sell into the MBS market, and how much did you portfolio?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : You know, I don't have that number handy. I think the lion's share of that was sold.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Do you have handy with you what was jumbo?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : About $8 billion. Nonconforming mortgages increased $8 billion to about $96 billion.

PAUL MILLER: Then my guess is you portfolioed all those nonconforming jumbos.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's correct. Go ahead.

PAUL MILLER: No, go ahead.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : The question is whether that $8 billion is part of the $47 billion. Because if it is, then that answers the question of what was sold. So we will confirm that.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. That make sense given the MBS issuance data that has been out. I don't have June; but given May and July I think you probably issued probably somewhere between 33 and 35, so that would coincide with some of that.

Have you been portfolioing any conforming loans on your residential portfolio? Or has it just been nonconforming jumbos?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Nonconforming, Paul. We're not portfolioing conforming.

PAUL MILLER: Yes. Can you talk a little bit about the pricing of the jumbos? Are they 4.25%, 4.5%? Are they mainly 7/1, 10/1s? Are you portfolioing any 30-year?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : It's a mix of 5/1, 7/1, 10/1, and 30-year. And they are priced for their point on the curve.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio , KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO , ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning, John and John. How are you? As a happy Wells Fargo deposit customer, I got a letter in the mail several weeks ago, and I wanted to get your thoughts on it.

It was changing the overdraft, no longer going from processing it from a high to low, but going now to first received. I thought that already happened. I guess I was wrong.

So I guess my question is: Will this have an impact on deposit service charges going forward with the change in the overdraft processing?

JOHN STUMPF : It's not going to be meaningful, no.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : Okay. But has it happened in certain parts of the country? Because I'm here in Baltimore, Maryland; I thought it was the old Wachovia franchise. Has it happened in certain parts of the country? In other words the shift to first received, and now we are converting other parts of the country? Or this is throughout the whole franchise?

JOHN STUMPF : Repeat that one.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : The --

JOHN STUMPF : This was really as a process we were able to -- with debit we're able to do it on a real-time basis. And it was more incorporating that into that hierarchy with checks to get them synchronized. And that was the reason for making that change.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : Okay. So again, the end result of that, this isn't any impact to deposit service charges going forward?

JOHN STUMPF : It's not going to be meaningful.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush , NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH , ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. A question about the spring survey from the OCC, where they made some fairly pointed comments about deterioration in credit quality, not only in leveraged lending. I think there was sort of a loosening of loan standards; I mean, there were a whole bunch of bullet points that were somewhat alarming from a credit-quality standpoint.

Do you guys see that this is at an inflection point in credit quality? And do you feel or are you feeling increased pressure to maybe start building reserves rather than continuing to let them draw down?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : So at least two different questions there. The first part on the competitive environment for loans.

And it is a more competitive environment. There are lots of people out there, lots of banks out there with a lot of liquidity competing for loans. And we do see more competitive, more borrower-friendly structures that we have to react to from one asset category to another.

Now in some, like in mortgage for example, part of it is just getting more clarity on what the rules are, and what's going to work, and what's salable to agencies, and things like that. And for other things, for other types of assets -- we mentioned auto earlier -- there are people out there who, for example, are extending the terms on auto loans to lengths that we might not have seen in the past.

And of course we are all -- leveraged lending is probably the most visible, because that is pretty easy to measure the aggressiveness based on leverage multiple, for example. So those things are happening.

Our front-line relationship managers and others are confronted with having to make decisions about where we want to be and where we don't want to be. We think we're very good at spotting that. And managing credit risk has been a strength at Wells Fargo , as you know, for a very long time.

With respect to reserving, we're looking at our allowance for credit losses every quarter. And it reflects and its change reflects what is going on in the portfolio. It's a bottoms-up analysis of what's in the portfolio, what it looks like, what it's risk rated, how it's performing, and what our expectation is for near-term credit losses.

And as we've said here, we anticipate reserve releases declining over some period of time, in part to reflect what -- from 35 basis points it's hard to argue that it can get much better from there. We are bounded by zero on the one side and would expect to gravitate more towards whatever normalized means, but some higher level of net charge-offs. So that's going on, on the one hand.

And then there is portfolio growth. As we said we have had a lot of new loans put on; and all things being equal, at some point our reserve will have to grow to reflect the increased loan balances. Which we think is a great thing, because we want those loans on the books, serving customers, earning interest, and creating the environment to cross-sell those customers. So that's how I see that.

NANCY BUSH : Do you think you will have an ability to telegraph the change that will actually happen when you have to start building reserves? Because my guess is that the industry is going to be -- or Wall Street is going to be somewhat shocked when that starts to happen.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : As I look at the industry data for what's going on with reserve releases from other banks, they've been trending and begun to trend, with a few exceptions, back up toward zero. So I think people see that coming.

And it's a reflection of asset growth on the one hand, which is a good thing; and then of course the big reserves that were put on in the heat of the crisis that in some cases were more than what was necessary. But we look at it quarter by quarter, just to be clear.

This is a GAAP exercise. We build it up based on what's actually in the portfolio and the experience that we are managing.

As you have seen in the data, right now our allowance for credit loss is pushing 5 times what our actual charge-off experience is right now.

NANCY BUSH : All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt , Evercore.

ANDREW MARQUARDT , ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS : Good morning, guys. Thanks. Just a couple follow-ups here. Just to be clear on the line of questioning from Nancy on credit quality, so just looking -- it feels like, to your point, maybe it's hard to get much better than 35 basis points in aggregate; and recoveries seem to be less robust; and maybe it's a very modest uptick in C&I .

Like, how should we think about the level? I mean, should we think about it in this very low range for a period of time, and we're still very far from what you've previously deemed as normalized, the 75 to 85 basis points? How should we think about maybe that near-term?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : Well, I think it's going to be hard for the 35 basis points to move rapidly to any much higher number. And we know what kind of assets we've been putting on the books for the last few years, which I think we all believe are of very high credit quality, particularly on a historical basis.

So normalization will happen over some period of time; but at least from our perspective we wouldn't expect it to be an ever-upped move. Credit is still quite strong.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Got it. Then just a little ticky-tack on the reserving. So not only for the loan growth that's picking up and relief from legacy issues for the industry, there is also this upcoming change in accounting at some point. Any update or thoughts on the CECL coming through, and when one might need to start thinking about that for the industry in general?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : What we know about that is that it sounds like it's going to happen. It's not final, but we're going to be hearing about it from the FASB in coming quarters; and at least the way I read it there's not going to be much of an opportunity to change anyone's mind.

Of course for anybody who isn't clued into this, this is essentially life of loan reserving. The expectation, our expectation is that that would begin to phase in, in the 2017 time frame or later. So it's not really today's issue.

And just for the avoidance of doubt, our reserving practices today do not reflect that future contemplated life of loan loss approach.

So it's out there. Let's call it 2017-plus and something we're all going to have to figure out how to adapt to.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Great, that's helpful. Then lastly just following on the balance sheet dynamic questions and the NIM optics and issues around deposits. Can you maybe just re-clarify in terms of deposit velocity in a higher rate environment that Brian had brought up earlier? How much -- I mean, do you, if at all, consider ring-fencing 5%, 10%, 15% of deposits maybe at risk of reversing in a higher rate environment, as some institutions have indicated?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : I wouldn't say that -- we don't describe it in our own deposit stress testing internally in quite that way. We talk about the types of deposit accounts that we have, and we assign what we think are the right level of behaviors to those accounts.

And through that we assess what we think the right level of liquidity is to carry. And that liquidity comes in the form both of cash and cash equivalents, which are extraordinary at Wells Fargo today, as well as our securities -- our relatively liquid securities portfolio that we in a pinch would consider to be salable or financeable.

And answering a slightly different question, the sum of those two things is such a significant part of our balance sheet today that it seems like ample coverage for whatever portion of deposits might unexpectedly retract or disappear in the event of a move up.

JOHN STUMPF : In fact, I think as I mentioned before, I think we are going to -- our deposit franchise will outperform competitors because of the nature of the kind of deposits we have and the amount of core deposits, especially amount of retail core. I think there is going to be a surprise; I think we will surprise ourselves on how well it's going to do.

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : That's right. The relationship that we have with our deposit customers is cemented by the tools that we have that we use, the products that we offer them that allow them to manage their money. So whether it's a consumer or a business customer, we have got the best-in-class interface that allows them -- and frankly, it's hard to move away from -- in terms of moving money, analyzing money, investing money, etc.

The mobile convenience, the online convenience, what we have referred to as this omnichannel relationship, it's not easy or convenient to want to change that. So something really has to be compelling about an individual depositor's circumstances, or we would have to really be tone deaf to what deposit pricing needs to do in order to retain our balances. So we feel really good about that.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Thanks, that's helpful. Then if you don't mind, just in terms of -- you've mentioned a couple quarters now how you've had this great continued growth in core deposits. But it's optically impacted the NIM but hasn't really negatively impacted the NII.

Would a similar dynamic be envisioned in a higher rate environment if in fact the velocity was greater than one envisioned? In terms of it could go the other way and you could have an optically better net interest margin; but the NII could remain relatively stable despite all that.

Or how should we think about that? Or how do you think about that?

JOHN SHREWSBERRY : We don't think about that.

JOHN STUMPF : What's happened in the past is -- typically what happens is that the margin will increase and net interest income will increase, because assets will reprice faster than liabilities well. But again that's hypothetical. We will wait to see what happens at the time.

ANDREW MARQUARDT : Got it. Great. Thank you, guys.

JOHN STUMPF : All right. Well, thank you much, everybody. We appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo . Thank you for joining the call. Excellent questions, and we will see you next quarter. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140713ea7b000xd
  


 HD
 Q1  2014 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,808 words
   PD
11 April 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session.

   TD
(Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, where our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, Tim Sloan, will discuss first-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn our call over to John Stumpf, Chairman and CEO.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN AND CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and thank you to everyone for joining us today. We earned a record earnings per share of $1.05 in the first quarter, which was our 17th consecutive quarter of EPS growth. Wells Fargo's ability to grow consistently across a variety of economic and interest-rate environments demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model and our unwavering focus on our vision of meeting all of our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially.

Our financial results have strong capital generation and returning more capital to our shareholders has remained a priority. We're extremely pleased that our 2014 capital plan allows us to increase our common stock dividend by 17%, subject to Board approval, of course, and also increase our common stock repurchases in 2014. We're proud of the fact that we've been able to increase our dividends and share repurchases every year since 2011, while we have continued to grow our capital levels.

Let me now highlight our growth during the quarter, compared with a year ago. We generated earnings of $5.9 billion and EPS of $1.05, both up 14% from a year ago. We had strong and broad-based loan growth, up $28 billion, or 4%. Our credit performance continued to improve, with total net charge-offs down $594 million, or 42%, from a year ago, and net charge-offs were only 41 basis points on average loans this quarter.

Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong growth, with total deposits up $83.8 billion, or 8%. We deepened relationships across our Company, achieving record retail banking cross-sell of 6.17 products per household. Wholesale banking increased cross-sell to 7.2 products; and wealth, brokerage and retirement cross-sell was 10.42 products.

We remain focused on reducing expenses with our efficiency ratio declining to 57.9%, down 40 basis points from a year ago. We increased our returns, growing return on assets by 8 basis points to 1.57% and return on equity by 76 basis points to 14.35%. We continued to generate strong capital growth, with our estimated common-equity Tier 1 under Basel III Advance Approach, which was over 10%.

Our results not only demonstrate the strength of our diversified business model, but also the benefit of an improving economy. While economic growth during the first quarter was uneven, economic activity improved later in the quarter, including national auto sales, which reached a seven-year high in March.

Employment also increased in March for the 42nd consecutive month, one of the longest periods of sustained growth ever, and consumer confidence hit a six-year high. The housing recovery remained on track and should benefit from the spring buying season.

I'm optimistic about future economic growth, because consumers and businesses have continued to improve their financial conditions. Households have reduced their leverage to the lowest level since 2001, and the burden of their financial obligations is lower than at any time since the mid-1980s.

Also, businesses are well-positioned to hire and invest with ample supplies of cash. As always, Wells Fargo is ready to help all of our customers meet their financial needs through our diversified product line and financial advice.

I want to conclude by highlighting the management changes we announced last week. Dave White, who has been with Wells Fargo for over 32 years, is retiring in June. Dave and his exceptional team of leaders have built a wholesale banking business which is well-positioned for continued growth.

Tim Sloan, who you all know has been an excellent financial and strategic leader for Wells Fargo and had previously spent 22 years in the wholesale banking group and is perfectly suited to continue wholesale banking's commitment to serving customers as he becomes the Head of Wholesale Banking.

John Shrewsberry will join me as CFO on our earnings call next quarter, who has deep understanding of our financial and business operations, as well as our shareholder expectations through his 20 years of proven leadership, including heading Wells Fargo Securities, with responsibility for investment banking, capital markets trading, and investment research businesses. John will be supported in his new role by a strong and talented finance team. These changes demonstrate the deep bench of high caliber leaders at Wells Fargo, which I believe is the best team in banking.

Tim will now provide more details on our first quarter. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. John and I will then answer your questions.

Wells Fargo earned a record $5.9 billion in the first quarter, up 5% from the fourth quarter. Our record earnings per share of $1.05 was also up 5% from last quarter. This was our 17th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth and our 12th consecutive quarter of record EPS, reflecting the benefit of our diversified business model.

As John highlighted, and as you can see on page 3, we had strong year over year growth in the fundamental drivers of our business: in commercial and consumer loans, deposits, cross-sell, credit, expense management, which resulted in growth in net income, capital, and earnings per share, and produced higher returns on assets and equity. I'll highlight the drivers of our growth, which create long-term value for our shareholders, throughout the call.

Page 4 highlights our revenue diversification, which is once again evenly split between net interest income and non-interest income. The drivers of our fee income, however, can differ depending on the interest rate and economic environment. For example, mortgage originations were 6% of our fee income this quarter, down from 23% a year ago when the refinance market was strong. Other businesses such as equity investments, brokerage and mortgage servicing, contributed more to fee income this quarter, demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model.

Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our first-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective, starting on page 5. We had strong linked-quarter growth in both loans and deposits. We are especially pleased with this performance, since first quarter is generally a seasonally weaker quarter for growth. Loans increased $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter, after increasing only $392 million on a linked-quarter basis a year ago.

Deposits grew by $15.4 billion, compared with $7.9 billion on a linked-quarter basis a year ago. The improving economy and high-quality loan originations continued to benefit credit quality, with net charge-offs declining to 41 basis points.

Turning to the income statement on page 6. Net interest income declined as we expected, reflecting the two fewer days in the quarter and lower income from variable sources. Non-interest income increased in the quarter, reflecting higher retail brokerage asset base fees, mortgage servicing income, and market-sensitive revenue. This growth was partially offset by seasonally lower deposit service charges and card fees, and lower mortgage production revenue.

Our expenses declined from the fourth quarter. While we have seasonally higher personnel expenses, we had lower deferred compensation expense, salary expense, and revenue-based incentive compensation. Equipment, professional services, and advertising expenses all declined from elevated levels in the fourth quarter.

Our results this quarter included a $423-million discrete tax benefit, primarily from a reduction in the reserve for uncertain tax positions due to the resolution of prior period matters with state taxing authorities. This lowered our income tax expense by $227 million, compared with last quarter, and reduced our effective income tax rate to 27.9%.

Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail. As shown on page 7, we continue to have strong loan growth in the first quarter, our 12th consecutive quarter of year over year growth. Period-end loans were up $28 billion, or 4% from a year ago.

Our liquidating portfolio continued to decline, down $12.8 billion from a year ago and down $2.9 billion from the fourth quarter. Excluding our liquidating portfolio, our core portfolio grew by $40.8 billion, or 6%, from a year ago, and was up $7 billion from the fourth quarter.

On page 8, we highlight how broad-based our loan growth continued to be. C&I loans were up $12.7 billion, or 7%, from a year ago, as we successfully grew loans and asset-backed finance, corporate banking, and government and institutional banking. Foreign loans grew $7.2 billion, or 18%, from a year ago, reflecting growth in trade finance and the UK's CRE acquisition we completed in the third quarter.

Real estate one through four family first mortgage loans grew $7.2 billion, or 3%, with growth in high quality, nonconforming mortgages. Auto loans were up $5.3 billion, or 11%, reflecting increased auto sales and record originations. Credit card balances were up $1.9 billion, or 8%, with record new account growth.

Deposit growth also remained strong in the first quarter, with average deposits growing $91.1 billion, or 9% from a year ago, and up $16.9 billion from the fourth quarter. This increase reflected solid growth across our businesses, particularly our consumer businesses and an increase in liquidity-related term deposits.

Primary consumer checking customers were up 5.1% from a year ago, up from 4.7% in the fourth quarter. We have steadily increased the growth rate of this higher cross-sell, more profitable customer base over the past four quarters, through product enhancements and consistent focus.

As shown on page 10, tax equivalent net interest income increased $157 million from a year ago, even though our net interest margin declined 29 basis points, reflecting the benefit of lower funding costs. Net interest income declined from the fourth quarter as expected, primarily from two fewer days in the quarter and lower variable income.

Our net interest margin declined by 7 basis points from the fourth quarter, to 3.2%, driven by three primary factors: lower income from variable sources, reflecting lower PCI resolutions reduced the NIM by 4 basis points; customer-driven deposit growth reduced the NIM by 2 basis points; and the liquidity actions that we took in the fourth quarter in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by 1 basis point. While our deposit growth and liquidity actions reduced our NIM, they had minimal impact on net interest income.

Like last quarter, balance sheet repricing and growth did not impact the net interest margin this quarter. Growing net interest income remains our focus, and we believe we should be able to grow net interest income throughout the remainder of the year.

Non-interest income increased $148 million from the fourth quarter, with lower mortgage origination revenue offset by stronger equity gains, mortgage servicing revenue, and brokerage fees. Compared with a year ago, non-interest income declined $750 million, primarily reflecting lower mortgage banking results. Non-interest income excluding mortgage banking was up $534 million from a year ago, with growth across many of our businesses, including brokerage, trust and investment management, credit and debit card, commercial real estate brokerage, and equity investments.

Our equity gains have steadily increased over the past year, reflecting good operating performance in our portfolio, and the benefit of strong public and private equity markets. We've been in equity-related businesses for over 50 years.

Like the other businesses at Wells Fargo, these businesses, which are permitted under the Volcker Rule, have experienced management teams that have produced strong results for decades. Our equity gains this quarter reflected roughly the same number of transactions as last quarter, but our gains per investment were higher, benefiting from positive market conditions.

Our mortgage results in the first quarter reflected the expected decline in origination volume. We originated $36 billion of mortgages, down $14 billion from the fourth quarter. Our unclosed pipeline increased to $27 billion at the end of the quarter, and we expect a normal seasonal benefit of a stronger purchase market in the second quarter to drive origination growth.

Our gain on sale margin was 1.61% in the first quarter, within the range of the margins we saw if the second half of 2013. We also continued to see improvement in our net servicing results, with servicing revenue up $229 million from the fourth quarter.

As shown on page 12, expenses were down $137 million from the fourth quarter, and down $452 million, or 4%, from a year ago. We also improved our efficiency ratio to 57.9%. Our first-quarter expenses included $440 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401K matching, as well as $221 million in annual equity rewards for retirement-eligible team members.

While we will not have these seasonally higher personnel expenses in the second quarter, there are certain expenses what will increase, including salary expense, reflecting day count, and the impact of our annual merit increases, and certain expenses that are typically lower in the first quarter, such as outside professional services and advertising expenses, are expected to increase in the second quarter. We also plan to continue to invest in our businesses, and revenue-based incentive compensation expense could increase as businesses grow. However, we expect our efficiency ratio to remain within our target range of 55% to 59% in the second quarter.

Turning to our business segments, starting on page 13, community banking earned $3.8 billion in the first quarter, up 31% from a year ago and up 19% from the fourth quarter. Retail banking continued to grow cross-sell, achieving a record of 6.17 products per household, up from 6.1 products a year ago. While mobile banking continued to be our fastest-growing channel with 12.5 million active mobile customers, up 23% from a year ago, store traffic has remained strong, with teller transactions stable from a year ago, despite decreases in geographies that experienced severe winter weather during the quarter.

Our credit card business grew balances and fee income compared with a year ago, reflecting record new account growth, up 6% from the first quarter of 2013. Purchase volume grew 14% from a year ago, and household penetration increased to 38%, up from 34% a year ago. We continued to be the number-one auto lender in the country, with record originations in the first quarter of $7.8 billion, up 15% from a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $1.7 billion in the first quarter, down 15% from a year ago and down 17% from the fourth quarter. This decline was primarily driven by lower PCI resolutions and investment banking revenue and seasonally higher expenses. Wholesale banking continued to generate strong loan growth, up 7% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter.

The linked-quarter growth was broad-based, with corporate banking growing $2 billion from new loan growth and higher utilization rates from our energy and large corporate and institutional customers. The asset-backed finance portfolio increased $2 billion from the fourth quarter, primarily due to higher utilization rates on warehouse lines, and the commercial real estate portfolio grew $1.8 billion from the fourth quarter, driven by higher utilization rates on construction loans and new loan originations.

Credit quality remained exceptional, with $59 million in net recoveries for the quarter. Wholesale banking has had net recoveries for five consecutive quarters, reflecting our conservative risk discipline and improving market conditions. Cross-sell increased to a record 7.2 products per relationship, up from 6.8 a year ago.

Treasury management continued to be a key relationship-building product, with revenue up 4% from a year ago, driven by strong sales growth, growth in commercial card volume, and pricing increases. Wealth, brokerage, and retirement earned $475 million in the first quarter, up 41% from a year ago, and down 3% from the fourth quarter. We understand the importance of investing and saving for the future, which is why we are focused on offering our customers sound guidance and advice.

Our brokerage advisory assets have grown to $388 billion, up $63 billion, or 19% from a year ago. Revenues from advisory assets increased 25% from a year ago, and recurring revenues are now 80% of WBR revenues, up from 74% a year ago. Wealth, brokerage, and retirement also had strong loan growth, with average loans up 14% from a year ago, primarily driven by high quality, nonconforming mortgage loans.

Turning to page 16, credit quality continued to improve, with first-quarter losses down $138 million from the fourth quarter and net charge-offs declining to 41 basis points of average loans. Losses in our commercial portfolio were only 1 basis point of average loans and consumer losses declined to 75 basis points.

Non-performing assets have declined for seven consecutive quarters, and were down $840 million from the fourth quarter. We had a $500 million reserve release in the quarter, and we continue to expect future reserve releases, absent a significant deterioration in the economy.

We also continue to focus on strong capital generation and believe the most important measure of our capital strength is the estimated common equity Tier 1 ratio under Basel III, using the Advanced Approach fully phased in. Our ratio grew to 10.04%, up 28 basis points from last quarter. Although we repurchased 33.5 million common shares in the first quarter, the amount of shares outstanding at the end of the quarter was up due to annual employee benefit plan issuances.

As John mentioned at the beginning of our call, our 2014 capital plan included an increase in share repurchase activity compared with 2013 activity, and we expect our share count to decline in the second quarter and throughout 2014 as a result of our anticipated share repurchases. Also during the first quarter, our Board approved an additional 350 million shares in our repurchase authority.

Our 2014 capital plan also included a proposed dividend of $0.35 per share for the second quarter, subject to Board approval, an increase of 17% over the $0.30 per share we paid in the first quarter. At our last Investor Day in 2012, we provided a target payout ratio of 50% to 65%. We look forward to revisiting this target at our next Investor Day on May 20 in San Francisco.

In summary, our consistent EPS growth reflects the advantages of our diversified model. Our results in the first quarter benefited from good loan growth and good deposit growth, improved credit quality, and lower expenses.

Our capital levels continued to grow, while we returned $2.6 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases. We are optimistic that the continued improvement in the economy and the focus of our team members on meeting the financial needs of our customers will continue to produce strong results.

We'll now open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

Our first question will come from the line of Betsy Graseck with Morgan Stanley. Please go ahead with your question.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi. Thank you. Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Couple of questions. Good morning. A couple of questions, one, on the LCR, I know you mentioned that the LCR-related build hit NIM by $1 billion -- 1 basis point, I'm sorry, 1 basis point in the quarter. So wanted to get a sense as to how far along you think you are and how much more you need to do to get to either 100% or whatever cushion you're going to run over 100%.

TIM SLOAN: Sure, Betsy. That's a really good question. You saw us in the third and fourth quarter, in particular, make a number of decisions where we raised the liquidity in a number of ways to try to anticipate where the domestic LCR would ultimately land. I think the problem that I've got in terms of -- or a challenge we have in terms of giving a specific answer to the question is we don't know what the final rules look like yet. But rest assured that we think we have adequate liquidity to operate the Company, and we don't anticipate, whatever the final rules are, that it's going to have a material impact on the Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So don't be surprised if we have a couple more basis points coming out, but it's not going to be much more than that. Is that a fair way of thinking about it?

TIM SLOAN: I wouldn't necessarily equate it to net interest margin. Clearly, the impact of our liquidity build this quarter was much less than in the fourth quarter, in particular. But again, it's going to be a function of what the final rules look like, and those are in flux right now. But again, I don't believe it's going to have a material impact on the net income or the operations of the Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it. Okay. And then secondly on mortgage, the basic question is how are you thinking about the go-forward from here? You did indicate that weather-related was tough in 1Q, and we do have a seasonal pick-up with purchase activity in 2Q. But going into the year, I think the industry was thinking that mortgage originations would be somewhere between 1.1 and 1.3, in terms of [trillions of dollars] of origination. You had some capacity in your mortgage-origination business to potentially take some share in that environment.

Do you see that we're going to be at materially lower levels of origination for the full year? Have you adjusted your expenses for that? At this stage, I saw you cut back in headcount a little bit in the quarter. And maybe you could speak to what the plans are for that over the next quarter or two.

TIM SLOAN: Sure, I'll jump in, and then John may want to follow up. The first thing is that when you look at our mortgage business, it was profitable, both on an origination and the servicing side, which we're very pleased with. Mortgage is an important business for Wells Fargo. We've been in it for decades. We've been through cycles. Our mortgage team is poised and ready to take advantage of a stronger selling season. You can see that we entered the quarter with a slightly increased portfolio and pipeline, which we're very excited about.

But again, I would -- when you look at the fundamental drivers of the mortgage business, and that is rates still historically are very low, the affordability index is very attractive, and consumer debt is coming down, as well as employment continues to increase. So we're optimistic. I don't know what the size of the market will be, but I know that our mortgage team is poised and ready to take advantage of opportunities.

John, I don't know if you --

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. I would add a couple things to that. We are optimistic. Housing continues to improve. I don't think we'll see the percentage increases in values this year that we saw last year, but we believe it to be positive. I don't know if it's going to be in the 4% or 5%, which is the consensus. But as I traveled around the country, there's a lot of enthusiasm about housing, and just because the mortgage -- who knows what the mortgage market will be? There's, frankly, a lot more cash buyers today, to be honest about it.

So -- but housing is better, and a bigger share of our originations today are purchased money, which is actually a healthy place to be. And when you think of the sales force, the team that we have, and all the referrals coming out of our store channels and other places, this really plays to our wheelhouse. So we're excited about it, and weather did have some impact, but we're excited about the selling season.

BETSY GRASECK: I guess I was interested to see you had some job cuts in mortgage this first quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: We're always balancing that. Yes, yes.

BETSY GRASECK: All right. That's not an indication that you were too optimistic going into the year?

JOHN STUMPF: No, no, no. We've always -- we're adjusting. There's -- it's a big business, and we're always looking at how to get more efficient, of course, and making sure that we have the right number of team members. But we are ready for whatever come. And if it's not as good, we'll make adjustments. If it's better, we'll make adjustments that way. We've been nimble on our feet for decades in that business.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you, Betsy.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Erika Najarian with Bank of America. Please go ahead.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Erika.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Erika.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Thank you so much for the clarity on the share count outlook. I will -- I do want to pose a question, though, on the $350 million share repurchase authority that I've been getting from investors. How should we think about the catalyst that will drive the pace at which you use up this authority over the next few years?

TIM SLOAN: So Erika, the way that I would describe it is that, think about it, step back for a second. We returned $11.4 billion to our shareholders last year. We are going to return more than that this year.

In terms of the specifics of how that's going to play out on any given day, in a month, or within a quarter, we don't have a specific plan in place that we're going to execute. But we would tell you that we think our shares are on sale every day, and we are going to repurchase more shares this year than we did last year. And you're going to see that share count go down in the second quarter, in the third quarter, and in the fourth quarter.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great.

JOHN STUMPF: And the reason we can do that is because the earnings of the Company, just think about it. And that's the fundamental driver here.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: And so as a follow-up to that, you're clearly an earnings machine and you have plenty of excess capital any way you measure it. I'm wondering, John, how are you -- could you update us on how you're thinking about what potential acquisition opportunities there could be, in terms of helping enhance particularly some of your fee businesses?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. We don't need to do anything, and that's the beauty here. But we're always looking at things in an opportunistic way. The biggest capital required acquisitions or the ones that use the most capital are deposit businesses. We are, of course, at a level now where we're already at the cap or over it. The things that we look at are, is there a way to enhance wealth, brokerage, retirement, possibly, and that would be interesting to us; portfolio purchases; we announced something with Dillard's recently. These are the things that we like doing. We like the [car] business. What we're doing, if there can be an add here or there.

So I would think of it as bolt-on businesses and not think of it in the way of transformational. But again, if we don't do anything, that's also fine.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Great. Thank you for answering my questions.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you, Erika.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of John McDonald with Sanford Bernstein. Please go ahead.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & COMPANY, INC.: Hello. Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, John.

JOHN MCDONALD: Couple of quick questions, Tim, wanted to nitpick on net interest income. How much did the day count hurt NII dollars in the first quarter? And then, when you say that you think you can grow net interest income for the rest of the year, I assume you mean starting from the 1Q starting point. Is that a good way to read what your comment was there?

TIM SLOAN: John, that's correct. So from the first-quarter starting point, we believe that we're going to grow net interest income throughout the year, similar to what we did last year. The impact of a couple of days was somewhere in the $120 million to $130 million range.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

TIM SLOAN: A quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: And then in terms of investing cash with rates coming down this quarter, it doesn't look like you did too much deployment this quarter. Could you comment on that? There was some movement in the held-to-maturity investments; it looked like they went up. But can you comment on what happened this quarter on cash deployment?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. The good news is that the first call on cash deployment is always for loan growth, and you saw good loan growth year over year and on a sequential quarter basis, so we were very excited about that. But you're right, rates have been pretty volatile this quarter.

There have been times during the quarter when they were more attractive from our perspective, and we did accelerate some of our investments. Most of the purchases that we made in the quarter, which were about $13 billion on a gross basis, were in the held-to-maturity category, and we specifically purchased some more treasuries.

Every quarter has a little bit different complexion. You've seen us be more aggressive, and you saw us be more aggressive, for example, in the third and the fourth quarters of last year. We will continue to invest our excess liquidity in a very appropriate way. But you're right, rates are a little bit lower than we find attractive today.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on the volatile sources, is there a -- where are we on that this quarter? Is there a multi-quarter average or that you can compare? Were those volatile sources below average this quarter? Is there any way to contextualize that?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the variable income, particularly related to PCI resolutions, was, I would say, above average in the fourth quarter. This quarter, if there is such an average for a volatile item, which was hard to (inaudible) to be honest, is a little bit of a challenge. But I would say this quarter is a little bit more typical than what we've seen.

Now, there are other items in the variable category, like loan fees and resolutions and things like that. But the fourth quarter was a little bit higher and this feels a little bit more typical.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then can you have any comment on where you are in preparations for the OLA? I know the rules aren't finished yet, but is there any quantification of available [billing] resources or what level of potential requirement you might be preparing for to help us think of how far along we are?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. Again, it's similar to the LCR question, and that is we don't know what the final rules look like yet. We're hearing the same things that you probably are, that it's going to be based on the required level of Tier 1 common equity here in the US, and then some sort of metric that is going to be reflective of risk in the underlying companies. The good news is that our business model is a little bit less risky than others, and that, I think, should benefits us.

Based upon what we're hearing, we don't anticipate any significant changes in the level of our long-term debt. But having said that, I don't know what the final rules are going to be. My understanding is that they could be released sometime this quarter, could be next quarter. We'll adjust. I wouldn't anticipate it having a material impact on the operations of the Company.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then the last thing from me, on reserve releases, can you give us underneath the service what's driving the reserve release in terms of category? I assume there's not much that you're releasing out of the commercial book anymore. Is it really, to the extent you see further reserve releases, is it coming out of mortgage and home equity?

TIM SLOAN: I would say, John, it's predominantly, but not completely consumer-driven. You've seen -- and it's a reflection of the fact that the underlying credit quality of the Company continues to improve. Think about the quality of the loans that we've originated post-crisis, the loan losses, credit quality are very, very good. And so our expectation is that while our loan loss reserve release was down this quarter from the prior quarter and from the prior quarter before that, we do anticipate future releases. But it's primarily consumer-driven.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Great. Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you, John.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Moshe Orenbuch with Credit Suisse. Please go ahead with your question.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thank you. You had alluded to, Tim, before, the idea of bolt-on-type acquisitions. Is there a maximum size that you would think about in portfolio acquisitions? And if it's what used to be thought of as a specialty finance business, but has perhaps, Internet-based deposits, does that qualify as a bank? Does that restrict you? How do you think about those two questions as it relates to the acquisition possibilities?

TIM SLOAN: Moshe, I don't think there would be any difference in how we would view Internet-based deposits versus more traditional deposits; deposits are going to be viewed as deposits. And as John mentioned, they're -- it's not a business that we can buy.

Clearly, we have adequate capital to run our business and excess capital, which we primarily want to return to our shareholders, so we have the capacity to do a relatively large acquisition. However, our focus is going to continue to be on running the business. As John said, we don't really need to do an acquisition to continue to grow. If you look at some of the sizes of the acquisitions that we've done over the last few years, the largest have been portfolio acquisitions, and I think the largest was $4 billion, $4.5 billion. So we can clearly do something to that size and really not miss a beat.

Could we do something a little bit larger than that? Sure, we could. But as you know, we're pretty discriminating in terms of what we want to acquire, so I wouldn't anticipate us making any big splash in the near future.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me just make sure we're all on the same page here. Tim's absolutely right; our best opportunity to increase shareholder value is run our existing businesses even better. We have huge opportunity. We have this diversified business model, this culture. 97% of our revenues are here in the US. It's still a very fragmented market. This is where the opportunity is, and we don't need to do anything. If we do, it would be clearly accretive, and it would look opportunistic to you and to us, but our focus is on running the business.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. One of the things on the mortgage side that the trade pressed had said a lot about is that basically a lot of the origination growth has come in the non-banks. Could you talk a little about your strategies from a market-share standpoint, given that there's been this growth coming from outside of the traditional banking industry?

TIM SLOAN: I think that's a fair point. We're not overly concerned about that, though obviously, we've got to be cognizant of our competition. And the reason for that is we have the best distribution in the entire market. We have number-one market share. We have a very experienced team. We've got over 6,200 stores, retail locations, plus additional mortgage offices. And I don't think anybody's better positioned to take advantage of the business, and we view it as a core business. We are growing this business and we want to continue to grow the business. We're not concerned about that.

So we're going to have competition. We have non-bank competition in every one of our businesses. John, I don't know if you want to --

JOHN STUMPF: Sure, 50% of the US population and 50% of the businesses in America reside within two miles of one of our stores, just think of that. And while people a lot of times join us online, they pick the location -- they pick the provider that they're familiar with or that's close by them, because they still use the store, even for the millennials, who are very technologically advanced and savvy. So this is really a very important part of what we're doing.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: So we don't -- and we don't focus necessarily just on share for share's sake. We focus on adding value and meeting the needs of our customers.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Just one last nit-picky question: if you look at the yield on the loan portfolio, commercial and commercial mortgage loans, about $300 billion, had some pretty sizable drops in the yield. Was that part of the restatement? Was that a PCI thing, or was there something else going on there?

TIM SLOAN: It was mostly related to the decline in the PCI resolutions, Mo.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Okay. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Moshe.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Joe Morford with RBC Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, everyone.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Joe.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Joe.

JOE MORFORD: Just wondered if perhaps you could give us any more clarity on the relative change in the mortgage-related production expenses quarter to quarter or sequentially, based on the cutbacks you announced in the back half of last year?

TIM SLOAN: Well, they were down. I wouldn't -- the way that I would think about it, Joe, is that we've been responding to the decline in the refinance activity, and we started to do that in the summer and throughout the fall and through the winter. We think we're appropriately staffed right now to take advantage of the spring selling season. And so there will be a little bit of a reduction in terms of the base level of expense because of the changes -- or the decisions that we made in the first quarter in terms of the number of people, when you think about the second quarter.

But we're hopeful, candidly, that the expenses rise in the mortgage business in the second quarter, because that's going to be reflective of the fact that revenue -- or that originations are up and there will be more incentive-based compensation.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That makes sense. Beyond that, the other question would be beyond mortgage, do you see weather having any factor in your loan-growth trends this quarter? Maybe another way of looking at it is how did the pipeline look at quarter end, relative to three months ago? Or how do you see loan growth progressing through the year?

TIM SLOAN: Loan growth in general or in mortgage, Joe?

JOE MORFORD: Beyond mortgage, other categories.

TIM SLOAN: The pipelines looked good. I think we were really pleased.

JOHN STUMPF: First quarter.

TIM SLOAN: $4 billion-plus growth on a net basis and $7 billion in the first quarter, that's a really good first quarter, number one, in an absolute number.

The other thing that was exciting from our of perspective is how broad-based it was. It wasn't in any one, specific business. It was in our commercial and wholesale businesses. It was in many of our consumer-lending businesses. And it was in the relationships we have in the wealth, brokerage and retirement business, so it is very broad-based. So we're optimistic about continued loan growth.

I don't know what the number's going to be, but none of our businesses are saying that they don't think they can grow loans for the rest of the year.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thank you for the update.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Chris Mutascio with KBW. Please go ahead.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning, John and Tim. Good morning, how are you guys doing?

JOHN STUMPF: Good.

TIM SLOAN: Good, Chris.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: First, Tim, good luck in the new role. And if Dave is listening, congratulations on his pending retirement. I'm pretty jealous of that. Tim, I wanted to ask you a quick question, actually two quick questions.

On the gross servicing in the mortgage side, on page 39 of the release, before hedging and before any fair value adjustments, you had a pretty good increase, about a 15% increase in the gross servicing income from fourth quarter to first quarter. What would drive such a big increase, despite the fact the portfolio was roughly the same size? Does the lower expenses on foreclosures impact that gross servicing income?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, a fair point. When you look at that page, you see that we originated -- our servicing fees were over $1 billion, which was terrific. Now, you can look back and see that phenomenon in the second quarter of last year too. But it's primarily driven by the point you just made, Chris, and that is that the quality of the portfolio is better and that's a good thing. It's primarily a lack of late charges and special servicing fees and the like.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay, and unrelated question backing in on the reserve. You're releasing about 10 -- I won't say releasing, but the reserve ratio has been going down about 10 basis points, plus or minus, for the last couple quarters, per quarter. At that rate, if that were to continue, you would be at a reserve ratio to loans of in the 130, 135 range by the end of the year. Is that something that you're comfortable going to in the environment that we're in right now, in terms of the regulatory environment?

TIM SLOAN: Chris, candidly, I didn't know that -- I didn't appreciate the math that you just described, that it's been about 10 basis points a quarter. If it has been, it's been accidental more than anything. It's really a function of the improvement, the underlying improvement in the portfolio. I think that that ratio will continue to improve. I don't know where -- we don't know where it's going to land. It's going to be a function of the portfolio -- the performance of the portfolio. But it's definitely going to go down.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Brian Foran with Autonomous. Please go ahead.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH LLP: Good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Brian.

BRIAN FORAN: I was wondering if I could ask about the Basel III capital. And over the past couple quarters, it's grown faster than a simple model of earnings plus dividend less buybacks, and linking RWA growth with asset growth would imply. Is that something -- what's been the main drivers of that?

And as we look forward, do you think the Basel III ratio continues to grow faster than that simplistic view would imply? Or is it going to converge with the normal earnings growth rate?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Brian, it's a good question, and the whole topic is a little bit complicated, primarily, because we've had a number of rule changes and rule interpretations by the entire industry, number one. We, if you recall in the third quarter, we did reduce our RWA, and we called out some specific items in the third quarter to reduce our risk-weighted assets. But I think the trend, in terms of being different than the basic math that you described, it's more likely that it's going to be closer to the basic math than just you described than not.

Candidly, it will continue to be a function of the underlying risk within the portfolio. That is the primary driver. If we can continue to improve credit quality, continue to improve market risk, continue to improve operational risk, those will be the big drivers, because that's what the new methodology is based upon.

BRIAN FORAN: Appreciate that. On the LCR, I know the rules aren't finalized, so all this is prospective, as opposed to anything you'd be doing now. But at a very simplistic level, it seems to raise the value of retail deposits and lower the value of commercial deposits relative to each other, because the retail deposit runoff assumptions are so much lower. How big a deal is that? Is that something that just hit the margin? Maybe thoughts with the mix of commercial deposits or something, or as currently written, is that a bigger deal that actually shifts the focus of industry deposit gathering?

TIM SLOAN: I don't think it's going to fundamentally shift how we think about gathering deposits. John, you may have a different view, but anytime we can bring in and broaden relationship with one of our retail or commercial customers, we want to do that. We want their deposits in. What we don't like is our wholesale deposits in the more traditional defined sense, or hot money, things like that. That's not the -- we're looking for long-term relationships.

But even in the most extreme interpretation of the new rules, we still want to grow our commercial deposits. And again, that's because we have such a large deposit base. We're not overly concerned about the impact, in terms of how it affects the LCR. But we'll know that what the rules look like and the impact I'm sure later this year.

JOHN STUMPF: Brian, Tim's absolutely right. We love deposits when they are part of a primary relationship. And we like them at times when some were asking us why are you growing deposits, because you can't utilize them. And we said, it's good for long-term shareholder value.

We have a fixed infrastructure, and the more customers we can serve with that fixed infrastructure, magic happens, not always every quarter, and sure, we're all looking for earning assets. But I'll take all the deposits we can get that are part of a primary relationship, and we cross-sell off that, and it's a major driver in customer loyalty. So it's a big emphasis here for us.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you for taking my questions.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Ken Usdin with Jefferies. Please go ahead.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Ken.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Ken.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Hello, guys, how are you doing?

TIM SLOAN: Good.

KEN USDIN: I wanted to follow up on the deposit-side question. With you guys sounding pretty confident about the loan pipeline, we're also continuing to see a very strong amount of deposit growth from you guys, as well as in the industry. And I'm wondering are there any undercurrents where you are at least starting to see customers use deposits to fund their businesses? Or do you think we're into a new regime where it's all about building the relationship and continuing to see deposits grow while loans grow better. I guess the question is what's different, if anything, as far as how you're seeing loan pipelines grow versus deposit growth continuing?

JOHN STUMPF: Let me take a shot at that. You're right, what you typically see, Ken, is when loans start to grow, the people -- customers tend to use their own cash first. So there is some of that going on, but there's a lot of liquidity in the system. People are saving more. Americans save more now than they did in the last decade or two. And frankly, our delivery, the health of our retail delivery system, when I say the health, I mean the online and the stores and the ATMs, and the mobile and phone, all of it working together as an omni-channel, is a very compelling value proposition for businesses and consumers, and we're getting a disproportionate share. So that is -- and we just love that. So and I would also say this: our deposit franchise is probably undervalued today, given where absolute rates are, and that will change over time.

The other thing that's happened is we probably have a better set of competitors today than we've had, more rational competitors, as in the past. So it's a combination of a lot of things, and we're expecting to continue to see strong growth. When I look back at five years ago, when we merged with Wachovia, if you'd exclude CDs, we had about $650 billion of deposits. Today, if you exclude CDs, we have about [$1.050] trillion. We've grown $400 billion in five years.

KEN USDIN: Yes. Great. My second question, IB was soft, as it was for the industry, on a quarter-to-quarter basis and some of that is seasonal. But I wanted to get your comments on your thoughts about market-share opportunities and where you think the IB pipeline looks from here.

TIM SLOAN: We continue to be optimistic about the growth in our investment banking business, and the reason for that is that most of the business that we're doing in investment banking is with existing Wells Fargo customers who already have a relationship across the board. And so, because we haven't penetrated those customers as much as we'd like, we still think that there's a lot of opportunity there.

The share -- your market share is a result of focusing on customers and clients, as opposed to trying to get to a specific market-share number. But you're right, we understand that that business can be a little bit volatile. We were down a bit this quarter. Hopefully, we'll be up in the second quarter and the third quarter. But as long as we focus on our clients and on the overall relationship, particularly those that are already, we've got a good chance to continue to grow the business.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Then my last real quick one is you mentioned the discrete tax benefit in the first quarter. Can you clarify what your expectation is for the tax rate for the rest of the year?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. The expectation is it's likely the tax rate is going to go up. I'd love to be able to tell you that we could have that kind of tax benefit every quarter, but I sure wouldn't plan on it. I think it's more likely that the tax rate for the rest of the quarter, which obviously is going to be very dependent on how much money we earn, and we're looking forward to growing revenues and growing income over time. But I think it's more likely that that tax rate's going to be in the low 30%s.

KEN USDIN: Okay. So back to historical. Okay. Got it. Thank you, guys.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Mike Mayo with CLSA. Please go ahead.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Good morning.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Mike.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: So Tim, I'm looking at this and thinking what are you leaving your successor, 17 quarters in a row of higher EPS? That's tough to continue. I know I've been asking this several quarters, but if you take out, I estimate $0.07 benefit due to the lower tax rate, that's a trend that's going to maybe be tough to continue. I don't know, what's your thought about that?

TIM SLOAN: Mike, I'd love to take credit for 17 quarters of consecutive earnings growth, but there's another 264,999 people around here that really get the credit for it. And it's not about what we do every quarter. Obviously, we're very proud of not only the last 17 quarters, but the last five years where we've grown earnings on a compounded rate of 16%. So the trend has gone on for a long period of time.

But every quarter's a little bit different, and the second quarter is going to have a different complexion that the first and the fourth and the third of last year. But we continue to be optimistic, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: To ask it a little bit differently, revenues are down 3% year over year, and it's good. Expenses are down 4%, and that's helped efficiency improve from close to 59%, down to 58%. But that's still in the high end of your target of 55% to 59%. So did you guys not get as much in savings as you would have liked, or is that a future opportunity?

TIM SLOAN: We continue to -- our goal of improving the efficiency of the Company. We provided a range of 55% to 59% a couple of years ago, and we haven't gotten to the 55% level. That's clearly a goal that we'd like to achieve sometime. We think the improvement that we've made year over year on a sequential quarter basis to get back to 57.9% has been very good. But I'm hopeful that the primary reason that the dollar expenses could continue to grow in the Company is because revenue is going to grow. That's a good thing, and that's why we focus on efficiency.

So there's still a lot of opportunity in terms of becoming more efficient at Wells Fargo. We're not done yet.

MIKE MAYO: On the expense side, can you elaborate on a few of the key initiatives that might move that efficiency ratio to the lower end of the range?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. There's not really any one key efficiency project, Mike. We're a large Company. We have lots of different businesses, and each business is focused on improving efficiency.

But for example, we're focused on the amount of space that we have. We've done a great job in terms of reducing the amount of square footage we have in the Company. But the fact of the matter is, our people, our team members are working differently than they did 10 years ago and five years ago. They're spending more time with customers and less time in the office, so we have an opportunity to reduce occupancy cost and reduce our square footage over time. That would be an example.

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, something else you could think about is that we still have a number of loss-mitigation folks, as we're still working with elevated foreclosure and those kinds of issues. On the other hand, we're investing more in operational risk and compliance and those fort of things.

So you're right, we're at the higher end of that range or -- on the other hand, as you know, that's a ratio. It's a numerator, expenses divided by revenue, and we have seen revenue because of interest rates on the margin, margin revenues, while we've been able to grow NII, it's -- those numbers are not at -- the margin's not at an all-time high. As that improves, that will also give you some lift.

Whatever we do here, we will be very careful about what we spend money on, but never at the expense of the long term. But we're focused on it, and it's a good point you bring up.

MIKE MAYO: And that's why I brought up revenues are down year over year, and you're still at the high end of the efficiency range. I guess we'll hear more about that at the investor conference.

JOHN STUMPF: Actually, I think that's actually a good thing. Think of revenue is down and we actually improved the efficiency ratio. So we are -- but there's opportunity. You're right, we will talk more about that.

MIKE MAYO: And then, if you can elaborate on the management changes, John. I guess you're gearing for the next generation. How much longer do you plan to stay around, and who would be in the pool of potential successors?

JOHN STUMPF: I'm glad you asked that. I was going to give you that information. I'm 60. I know you think I look a lot younger, but I plan to stay here. The Board is okay with that, and they want me through my 65th birthday and we've got great people here. We have a terrific team of leaders and you know some of them. I wish you could know more.

For those of you who come to our investor conference next month, you'll get to meet more of them. Please come. That's one of the reasons we'd love to show you more of them. But this is a great team and I couldn't be more confident. In fact, I think it's the best team in the industry.

One thing, even though -- and Dave has been such a great leader. Even with his leaving, the average tenure of my 10 direct reports is still around 28 years with this Company.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Matt O'Connor with Deutsche Bank. Please go ahead.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hello, guys.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Matt.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: I'm sorry if I missed it, but did you provide the estimated leverage ratio under the new rules that came out last week or this week?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, we didn't, and we're still working through that calculation. But just assume that at the parent Company level we're comfortably above 7%. So it's really not an issue for us.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, and that leads me to my next question. If we look at the three banks that are bigger than you, I think when you put together all the new requirements out there for capital liquidity, it's a bit more onerous for them than it is for you. I'm wondering are you actually seeing them pull back in certain areas that you now feel like you can compete in? And has that changed since last June, when we first got the current proposal for the SLR?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I wish that was the case. The business is very competitive across the board today, and we expect that all of our competitors are going to adjust to whatever the new rules are. We've candidly been doing that since 2009. But it's a competitive market out there, and hopefully for whatever reason, we can continue to grow.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then lastly, a number of lumpy revenue items or the tax gain, anything on the expense side, besides this seasonal increase in cost that you'd want to point out, like litigation costs or anything else lumpy that we should be thinking about?

TIM SLOAN: No, not beyond the seasonal items in the first quarter, but again, I want to emphasize that you should expect some increases in other line items within expenses in the second quarter that I called out. But nothing in the quarter that was lumpy from an expense standpoint, other than the seasonal compensation-related items.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And I guess on that expense outlook, when you piece together the decline and some of the seasonal benefits and increases elsewhere, if we hold revenue flat quarter to quarter, do expenses stay flat, or go up or down, or what's the net of all the items?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, we'll know for sure in about 90 days, and I don't know what the exact dollar expenses will be. But one of the reasons why we -- why I called out some of the categories is we do think some of those categories are going to rise relative to their first-quarter numbers. But again, a lot of our expenses are driven off revenue, and if revenues are higher in the second quarter and that's the reason that expenses are up, I think we'll all be very, very happy.

JOHN STUMPF: I don't think any of us look to the future and say let's hold revenues flat. No.

TIM SLOAN: We think we're a growth Company.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. Thank you, Matt.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Marty Mosby with Guggenheim. Please go ahead.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES LLC: Thank you. I wanted to talk a little about the macro hedge in the mortgage side. The servicing profitability has actually tripled since last year, going from $300 million to about $900 million per quarter. Now represents more than 50% of the mortgage banking income. So I wanted to talk about and get your feelings on further improvements in that as we move forward, and had a few precise questions about some items that could help there as well.

TIM SLOAN: Well, Marty, you're absolutely correct that the -- our servicing income is up significantly over the past few years or the past few quarters, as you can see. The drivers are primarily the fact that the underlying quality of the portfolio continues to improve. So there's less adjustments that we need to take to the value for things like foreclosure costs, to make any changes related to the consent order, or servicing settlement, and so on and so forth.

And in terms of the hedge, I wouldn't think about it as a macro hedge. It's a very complicated set of hedging activities that we need to do. We've got a large group of people that does it. They're very experienced.

But as we've talked about in the past, we're not trying to make any macro bets from an interest-rate standpoint or in terms of a market standpoint. We're trying to generate a predictable set of earnings from an underlying business that we like a lot. It was very beneficial when we went through the refinancing boom, and we believe can continue to provide good earnings.

You're absolutely correct, that it's a larger portion of earnings than maybe the origination side, but my guess is that's going to change from quarter to quarter depending upon origination volume.

MARTY MOSBY: And when I meant macro hedge, I meant more originations versus servicing, not hedging of the service portfolio.

TIM SLOAN: You're right. Again, I think sometimes, folks think that somehow that servicing business is a natural hedge to origination volume, and given the -- what we've seen over the last year or so, given the size of the refinance opportunity, we can see that really wasn't the case.

MARTY MOSBY: To some [port], but not completely.

TIM SLOAN: Correct.

MARTY MOSBY: When you look at the prepayment speeds not really accelerating, with refinance not really coming off the floor, you still wrote down the MSRs about $400 million this quarter. I know rates came back in, but really cash flows are what matter more than just the rates. The rate is a proxy, but if you don't get a significant increase in prepayment speeds, there really shouldn't be further write-downs in the portfolio at this point. So I was curious what you thought or what was driving that write-down this quarter.

TIM SLOAN: You're absolutely correct that rates are a driver, and we've seen a lot of volatility in rates for certain. But again, rates are the primary driver. Also, underlying prepayments fees that we're seeing for other reasons in terms of how quickly folks are selling their homes and moving elsewhere. But our best guess is if -- that we could continue to see some benefit from the servicing portfolio.

MARTY MOSBY: And then lastly, the provision for unfunded commitments jumped up this quarter, about $250 million. Is that something we should see at the same level, or is that something you made a little adjustment on this quarter that might fall back as you move forward?

TIM SLOAN: It's a reflection of the fact that our loan commitments grew, which is a good thing, but also we adjusted some of our estimates. And I wouldn't anticipate that that would repeat itself on a quarterly basis.

MARTY MOSBY: All right. Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Nancy Bush with NAB Research, LLC. Please go ahead.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Nancy.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: A question for you that I think John McDonald asked the question about the release in loan loss reserves, and I would ask for an additional detail on that. How much of this release was enabled by the reserves you built after the Wachovia deal? In other words, how much or how many of these reserves are related to better credit quality at Wachovia than you had anticipated?

TIM SLOAN: I don't have the percentage off the top of my head, Nancy. I think what you saw is that we continued to build reserves throughout 2009, and I'm trying to remember what quarter we stopped building reserves. I thought it was through most of 2009. But I would say it's a reflection of clearly, improved credit quality in the underlying portfolio that we inherited from Wachovia, as well as the Wells portfolio.

I don't know what the percentage is related to that, because today it's really all mixed. We don't really think about it that way.

JOHN STUMPF: But Nancy, you are right to this extent: the Wachovia portfolio turned out to be better than we had thought. And if you look at how much we've moved from on the PCI side into the accretable from the non-accretable, and we especially did a lot better on the [pick a pay]. We had a terrific team that attacked that early on. But credit turned out, I think, partly because of things that we did, it turned out to be quite a lot better.

TIM SLOAN: But Nancy, again, to reinforce John's last comment, and I should have mentioned it, most of the improvement that we saw in the Wachovia portfolio was really in the -- what you see in PCI and the detail we provide there, as opposed to in the loan-loss reserve.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, this is a tangential credit quality question, and it has to do with Dave Hoyt's decision to retire. Number one, Tim, congratulations, but with the admonition that timing is everything in life.

And secondly, Dave Hoyt was the best in the industry at two things: number one, not answering a question; he was expert at that. But number two, foreseeing credit quality trends way in advance. And I have had the question from others, and I'm a little bit concerned that Dave is looking out into the future here and seeing that commercial credit quality is about as good as it's going to get. Could you comment on that?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Nancy, I worked for Dave for about 20 years, and he absolutely was a terrific judge of credit quality. I think if Dave was on the phone, he'd also say that there were hundreds if not thousands of people that were behind him in wholesale banking that helped in that. And so there's no question that Dave's retirement is something that we weren't looking forward to.

But we have a great team here, and I would not read into his retirement as him saying from here on in, credit quality is going to significantly deteriorate at Wells Fargo. In fact, I think it's more likely that it's going to continue to improve.

The likelihood in the commercial portfolio that we're going to continue to have quarters of recovery as opposed to loan losses, that's not going to happen forever. The fact of the matter is that culture really matters, and the culture that we have in the wholesale banking group in terms of making good credit decisions, is going to continue on, because that's what Dave was very good at instilling in 1000s of people within the wholesale banking group.

JOHN STUMPF: And I can tell you from my perspective, and while I've not had that much time with Dave, I've only had 16 years with him, he is retiring. He has a fabulous family, including grandchildren. He has a lot of other interests and he felt it was right for him. And while we're sad to see him go, we celebrate with him his next stage. And as Tim mentioned, his legacy are the thousands of people that he has led that are in leadership roles right now that continue to propel this business forward.

NANCY BUSH: Well, please let him know that I'm sure I'm not the only analyst who's going to miss sparring with him. One other thing, on private equity, the gains you had, you guys have long had an expertise in technology, private equity investments, and is that still or is that the primary source of a lot of the gains this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: It was a source of some of the gains, Nancy, but it was really real across the board. We had, as I mentioned, about the same resolutions, I'd say about 50% were in technology related, the other 50% weren't. We're very pleased with the gains that we had this quarter. But as you can appreciate, you can't count on those at the same level every quarter. I wish we could.

But this is a very buoyant time in the equity markets, both public and private, notwithstanding some of the market volatility over the last couple of days, and we've got good management teams. As you said, we've been in the business for a long time, so we continue to be optimistic about the long-term success of those businesses, but quarter to quarter it's going to be what it's going to be.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Thank you very much.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you, Nancy.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Paul Miller with FBR Capital Markets. Please go ahead.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Paul.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Paul.

JESSICA RIBNER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Hi, this is actually Jessica Ribner for Paul. How are you? Well.

TIM SLOAN: We've upgraded. How are you, Jessica?

JESSICA RIBNER: You have upgraded. It's true, and then he's going to read the transcripts.

You guys have actually shrunk your market share almost 50% to about 16% over the last couple quarters -- or the last few quarters, I should say. But you're also talking about growing it. Where do you see that going?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. It's a good question. Again, if you step back and think about the time at which in the cycle that our market share was so high, arguably two times, maybe a little bit less than that, it was because the primary source of mortgage origination volume, depending upon the quarter, could have been two-thirds of volume or three-quarters of volume, or even more in some quarters, was refinance volume. And that's reflected the fact that we're the largest servicer, we had the highest quality servicing portfolio, and generally those customers gave us the first call and we were able to meet their needs by refinancing that mortgage.

And we had indicated that we thought that as the refinancing volume declined, and as the mix changed to more of a purchase money market, our market share would go down, so that was absolutely anticipated. But we don't think of the business as a market-share business. We think about it as how do we solve the needs of our customers? Do we have the right number of people in the right places?

As John mentioned, we've got the best distribution system in the market, and so we're optimistic about being able to grow. Whether that means we'll grow market share, I don't know, but we're optimistic about growth in the business.

JOHN STUMPF: Jessie, the other thing you should think about is that the 16%, or whatever that number is, 16% or 17%, part of it is an aggregation business where we do correspondent banking business, which is -- we love that business, but it's a lower margin business. And part of it is a retail business, where we actually originate the loan through one of our home mortgage consultants.

Some of the correspondent business is going directly to Fannie and Freddie. That business is actually changing a bit. So when you look even at the time where we had maybe double that share, you have to look at both sides of that. And while I focus on all of it, it's also important to make that distinguishment.

JESSICA RIBNER: Okay. Well, thank you. And then a related question. You guys said earlier on the call that you added about $7.2 billion of, it sounds like, jumbo mortgages on the balance sheet. Is that correct?

TIM SLOAN: No. Our loan growth was primarily, on a gross basis for the quarter, was about $7 billion point to point. The growth in nonconforming mortgages on a gross basis, which would be the jumbo category, was about $5.8 billion.

JESSICA RIBNER: Okay. And where do you see that trend going?

TIM SLOAN: Hopefully it will continue to go up. I think that one of the areas that we indicated a couple of years ago at our Investor Day was a real effort on the part of our team in the wealth area, as well as in our retail banking area, to coordinate more on those opportunities, and they've done a terrific job. So we're hopeful with the improvement in the weather and the spring selling season that we'll continue to see that grow over time.

JOHN STUMPF: The ones we put on portfolio are a very small part of the originations. It's less than 5% or so. So there's opportunity there.

JESSICA RIBNER: Okay. Great. Well, thank you very much.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Keith Murray with ISI. Please go ahead.

TIM SLOAN: Hello, Keith.

JOHN STUMPF: Hello, Keith.

KEITH MURRAY, ANALYST, NOMURA ASSET MANAGEMENT: Actually Keith Murray for Keith Murray, so it's a bit of a downgrade for you guys. Sorry.

JOHN STUMPF: No, we still think that's an upgrade.

KEITH MURRAY: Thank you very much. On all the new rules, you've got Basel III, you've got SLR, you've got LRC. When you think about loan pricing, and pricing for commitments, has that all been factored in yet? And are you still working through the changes that will have to be made?

TIM SLOAN: Really good question. I don't believe that the industry, set us aside for a minute, the industry has necessarily adjusted yet, because the capital rules have just been finalized. The leverage rules, for example, are relatively new, and we haven't seen the final liquidity rules. I'm sure there will be some adjustments, just like there's been adjustments to all the other new rules and regulations that we have post-crisis. So I think it's more in the future than in the past.

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. And then are you seeing much impact from non-bank lenders out there? Every private equity firm, non-banks, you're seeing a lot of them try to do more loans to middle-market firms. Are you seeing much impact at all?

TIM SLOAN: There's no question that post-crisis, given a lot of the regulatory change, it's created opportunities for unregulated or differently regulated institutions. That's been the case for as long as I've been in the lending business and been with the bank.

I think the important point to make is that generally, those firms frequently are very good, are mono-line firms. That is, they have one product. They can provide credit. How we differentiate ourselves is that we have relationships and that we can provide tens of products or more and broaden that relationship. So we don't find ourselves losing a lot of business to non-banks.

I also think that generally, the competitive environment is a little bit more rational than it would be today. But again, we have a real advantage when we compete against a mono-line product provider versus our relationship focus and cross-sell orientation.

KEITH MURRAY: Thank you. And then finally, on fee-based businesses that you have, if you look out for the rest of this year and through 2015, which of those businesses do you think has the most potential upside for revenue growth?

JOHN STUMPF: We really like -- we like all of our businesses. In fact, we think there's growth opportunity. But if you -- a couple of them jump out. Wealth, brokerage, retirement, you saw that, we're up 41%. I don't think we can do 41% every quarter or every year, but that's a huge growth opportunity for us.

The card business, we think we've got some exciting things happening there, but that doesn't diminish anything else. We have opportunities with what we're doing internationally, because we have more of our US customers doing business there. We have opportunity in our capital markets businesses. And even mortgage where you think -- where people would say, you have the number-one share. There's huge opportunity there; 50% of our customers who call us their bank who have a mortgage don't do it with us. So there's all kinds of opportunity here.

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Your next question will come from the line of Eric Wasserstrom with SunTrust Robinson Humphrey. Please go ahead.

ERIC WASSERSTROM, ANALYST, SUNTRUST ROBINSON HUMPHREY: Thank you very much. Hello. A couple of follow-up questions. One is, I notice that your card fees declined by about the same amount as they did in the first quarter of last year. But in terms of your actual charge volumes, was there any decline that was more than what is typically seasonal in this first quarter?

TIM SLOAN: No, not at all.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: So in other words, no disruption from weather or any other exogenous -- temporary unemployment or any other exogenous factor.

TIM SLOAN: No, not at all.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Okay. And turning to the gain on sale trend for a moment, and I recognize that the changes weren't big, but most of the proxies that we use suggested flat. And so I'm wondering if there was anything in mix or otherwise that would have explained the decline.

TIM SLOAN: No, there wasn't necessarily a big change in mix. That's one of the reasons why we provided a range beginning in the third quarter of last year. I think there was a concern in the market that as volume went down, that gain on sale margins would go down significantly. We think that the range that we've provided, plus or minus 1.5%, is a reasonable range to operate in. But within comparing any quarter, 5 to 10 to even 15-basis-point level of volatility is not uncommon at all.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great. And then lastly, getting back to Brian's question about the accretion of Basel III capital versus the growth in earnings, recognizing that there should be convergence, it also seems that the quality of the portfolio that you've originated over the past few years has lower embedded risk. So wouldn't that suggest that the -- that as the risk component becomes an increasingly important determinant of your Tier 1 under the Basel III, wouldn't that suggest that Basel III capital continues to grow ahead of what the earnings math would otherwise suggest?

TIM SLOAN: It could, but again, because it's a more complicated calculation right now, because you've got the impact of market risk, you've got the impact of operational risk. And candidly, the operational risk calculation for the regulators as well as the entire industry continues to be a work in progress and in flux. I wouldn't want to jump to a conclusion that underlying credit quality only would be the sole driver of improvement in RWA.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Great, and then last one from me, and I hate to come back to this topic, because it's already been addressed many times. But in terms of the reserve releases, the non-performing assets continue to come down, but many of the forward-looking credit quality indicators are starting to flatten in terms of their sequential improvement.

TIM SLOAN: Right.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: All else equal, and of course your portfolio of loans continues to grow. So all else equal, wouldn't that indicate that the pace of reserve release should start to decline also?

TIM SLOAN: Well, it could. And to your point, that's what you've seen over the last three quarters. We went from a $900-million release in the third quarter to $600 million last quarter to $500 million this quarter. I don't know what the release is going to be in the second quarter. We do believe we're going to have a release, but it's a fair point. This is not going to go on forever, but the fact of the matter is, the portfolio continues to improve.

ERIC WASSERSTROM: Thank you very much.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Our final question will come from the line of Derek de Vries with UBS. Please go ahead.

JOHN STUMPF: Derek?

TIM SLOAN: Derek?

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions)

There is no response from that line.

JOHN STUMPF: All right. Why don't we then conclude. Let me make a couple of comments. First of all, I'd like to thank Tim Sloan for the great work he's done as our CFO. As you all know, he's going to take over the wholesale bank. Tim, thank you for the great leadership and the work you've done here. You've just been terrific.

For those of you who don't know John Shrewsberry, many of you do, you'll get to see him. If not before, but you'll surely see him when you come to our investor conference. Remember that was May 20 in San Francisco. We look forward to seeing you. It's always an exciting time for us to talk about our business and share with you the enthusiasm and some of the great people that we have.

So thank you very much for your interest in Wells Fargo, and we'll talk to you next quarter and the investor conference earlier than that. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating, and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140413ea4b000xd
  


 HD
 Q4  2013 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
11,735 words
   PD
14 January 2014
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©014 by CQ-Roll Call, Inc. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina, and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe , Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE , DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf , and our CFO, Tim Sloan , will discuss fourth-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, and in our earnings release and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf .

JOHN STUMPF , CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Happy New Year and thanks to everyone for joining us today. 2013 was an outstanding year for Wells Fargo . We generated record earnings, grew loans and deposits, had significant improvement in credit quality, and rewarded our shareholders by increasing our dividend and buying back more shares.

We finished the year with a record $1.00 in earnings per share for the fourth quarter, our 16th consecutive quarter of earnings-per-share growth, clearly demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model and our success in meeting our customers' financial needs.

Let me share some of our accomplishments during this past year. We generated earnings of $21.9 billion and earnings per share of $3.89, both up 16% from a year ago.

Our core loan portfolio grew by $39.8 billion, almost $40 billion, up 6%. Our credit performance continued to be very strong, with total net charge-offs down $4.5 billion or 50% from just a year ago.

Our outstanding deposit franchise continued to generate strong deposit growth, with total deposits up $76.3 billion or 8%. By focusing on meeting our customers' financial needs, we achieved record cross-sell across the Company, with Retail Banking cross-sell growing to 6.16 products per household, Wholesale Banking increasing to 7.1 products, and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement cross-sell achieving 10.42 products.

We also had very strong returns this year by growing ROA by 10 basis points to 1.51% and return on equity by 92 basis points to 13.87%. We continue to generate strong capital growth, with our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio under Basel III increasing to 9.78%.

This was a great year for our shareholders. Our stock price increased 33%; we returned $11.4 billion in capital to our shareholders through a higher common stock dividend and more share repurchases in 2013, up 33% from 2012; and in our recent CCAR submission we requested even more capital to be returned to our shareholders.

As we start the new year, I am excited about the opportunities ahead for our country, for our customers, and for Wells Fargo . The unemployment rate has declined, GDP growth accelerated, and consumer confidence is near a five-year high.

While we don't expect the same rate of home price appreciation we had last year, we do expect the housing market to continue to recover, which will benefit the US economy. And despite the rise in home prices and interest rates over the past year, housing is still very affordable.

During the year ahead, we will continue to build on our commitment to our customers and to our shareholders, and invest in our businesses to generate growth for decades to come. I am proud of all that our team members accomplished this past year. Our earnings power and capital strength have never been stronger.

We believe we are well positioned for 2014, and we are optimistic about the many opportunities ahead for continued growth. Tim Sloan , our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our fourth-quarter and full-year results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN , EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2; and then John and I will answer your questions.

For the fourth quarter, Wells Fargo earned a record $5.6 billion and $1.00 in earnings per share, both up 10% from a year ago. These strong results were broad-based, with higher net interest income, fee growth across many of our businesses, lower expenses, and improved credit quality.

We have now achieved 16 consecutive quarters of EPS growth and 11 consecutive quarters of record earnings per share. Our ability to grow over such a long period of time reflects the benefit of our diversified model.

On slide 3 you can see the strong growth in 2013 that John just highlighted, including a 16% increase in full-year net income and earnings per share.

Slide 4 illustrates our revenue diversification. We do not rely on any one business to generate growth. The power of our model and the benefit of our diversification were demonstrated in our 2013 results.

As interest rates rose during the year, mortgage refi volume naturally waned, as expected. As a result, the revenue we earned in 2013 from mortgage originations declined $3.4 billion from 2012.

However, over the same period we had double-digit fee growth in brokerage, investment banking, cards, and mortgage servicing. This diversification enabled us to generate double-digit earnings and earnings per share growth.

Let me start by highlighting some key drivers of our fourth-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective, starting on page 5. Our balance sheet has never been stronger. We increased our earning assets by 5% by growing loans, purchasing securities, and increasing short-term investments as deposit growth remained robust.

We continued to increase our capital level even as we returned $3 billion in capital to our shareholders, including reducing common shares outstanding by 16.6 million shares in the fourth quarter. The improving economy and high-quality loan originations continued to result in improved credit quality, with net charge-offs declining to 47 basis points.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, revenue increased in the fourth quarter as we grew both net interest income and noninterest income. Net interest income increased while our net interest margin declined 12 basis points.

Our ability to grow net interest income, even as mortgage origination -- excuse me, noninterest income even as mortgage origination volume declined reflects the benefit of our diversified business model. On a linked-quarter basis we had strong fee growth in Retail Brokerage, trust and investment management, investment banking, card, commercial real estate brokerage, mortgage servicing, and insurance.

Our efficiency ratio improved, as expected. Our expenses declined, driven by lower personnel costs, which were partially offset by seasonally higher fourth-quarter expenses for equipment and professional services, as we continued to invest in our businesses and addressed evolving compliance and regulatory standards.

Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail. As shown on page 7 we had strong loan growth, with period-end loans up $26.2 billion or 3% from a year ago, and up $13.5 billion from the third quarter, or 7% annualized, with broad-based growth across almost all of our portfolios.

Our liquidating portfolio continued to decline and is now less than 10% of total loans. This is down from 22% at the time of the merger five years ago, as we have reduced the size of this portfolio by $110 billion.

Excluding our liquidating portfolio, our core portfolio grew by $39.8 billion or 6% from a year ago, and was up $16.7 billion from the third quarter. We have grown our loans on a year-over-year basis for 10 consecutive quarters; and for the past 7 quarters year-over-year growth has been at least 3%, despite runoff from our liquidating portfolio.

On slide 8 we highlight how broad-based our loan growth was in the fourth quarter. Compared with the fourth quarter of 2012, foreign loans grew $9.9 billion or 26%, and included growth in trade finance and the UK CRE acquisition we completed in the third quarter.

C&I loans were up $9.4 billion or 5%, as we successfully grew loans in Asset Backed Finance, Government Banking, and Corporate Banking. Real estate 1- through 4-family first mortgage loans grew $8.6 billion or 3%, even with the runoff from our liquidating portfolio, and included growth in high-quality nonconforming mortgages.

Auto loans were up $4.8 billion or 10%, reflecting record originations in 2013. Credit card balances were up $2.2 billion or 9%, with strong new account growth.

We generated strong deposit growth throughout the year, and growth actually accelerated in the fourth quarter with average deposits growing $34.8 billion, or 13% annualized from the third quarter. This growth was diversified across our businesses, with strong consumer and commercial growth, while we continued to reduce our deposit costs, which were down 5 basis points from a year ago to 11 basis points. Demonstrating the strength of our deposit franchise, we have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for 13 consecutive quarters.

We also successfully grew primary checking customers -- consumer checking customers in the fourth quarter, which were up a net 4.7% from a year ago, an increase from 3.9% last quarter.

As shown on page 10, we grew tax-equivalent net interest income from a year ago and from the third quarter. In fact, our NII this quarter was the highest it has been in five quarters.

Average (technical difficulty) turning assets grew $58.3 billion from the third quarter, up 5%, reflecting increases in short-term investments, loans, and investment securities. Our ability to grow net interest income on both a linked-quarter and year-over-year basis while our NIM declined is why we don't manage to the net interest margin, but instead focus on growing net interest income.

Our NIM declined by 12 basis points from the third quarter to 3.26%. This decline was driven by two primary factors.

First, our continued strong customer-driven deposit growth, which has little impact on net interest income but is dilutive to the NIM, reduced the margin by 6 basis points. The liquidity-related actions we took in the third and fourth quarter in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations reduced the margin by 6 basis points.

Balance sheet repricing and growth in variable income did not impact the NIM in the fourth quarter. While the factors that reduced the net interest margin in the fourth quarter were largely P&L-neutral, we expect they will continue to impact the NIM in the near term.

Noninterest income increased $132 million from the third quarter, with lower mortgage origination revenue offset by stronger trust and investment fees and higher mortgage servicing revenue. While mortgage banking revenue was down $1.5 billion from the fourth quarter of 2012, we had strong momentum across a number of our other businesses.

Let me highlight some of the year-over-year increases we had in noninterest income. Trust and investment fees were up $259 million, with strong growth in brokerage asset base fees, growth in our trust and investment business, and higher investment banking fees. These businesses now account for 36% of our noninterest income, up from 28% a year ago.

Card fees were up $91 million, benefiting from strong account growth and increased usage in both our credit and debit card businesses. Insurance was up $58 million from improved results in our crop insurance business. Deposit service charges were up $33 million from a year ago, benefiting from strong account growth and increased Treasury Management services to our commercial customers.

As expected, our mortgage origination volume declined this quarter, as highlighted on page 12. We originated $50 billion of mortgages in the fourth quarter, down 38% from $80 billion in the third quarter.

Refis declined to 32% of origination volume, and purchases increased to 68%, a significant mix shift from a year ago when refis were 65% of volume and purchases were only 35%. Our unclosed pipeline declined to $25 billion at the end of the quarter, down 29% from the third quarter.

And while it's still early in the quarter, we currently expect origination volumes in the first quarter to decline from the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonality in the purchase market and lower refi volume. But we expect the rate of decline to slow from the levels we had in the third and the fourth quarters.

Our gain on sale margin was 1.77% in the fourth quarter, up from the third quarter but lower than historical elevated levels we experienced in the second half of 2012 and the first half of 2013. While there are a lot of factors that impact the margin, we currently expect margins in the near term to remain in the range we saw in the second half of 2013.

Reflecting the lower origination volume, we had lower incentive compensation expenses related to mortgage production in the third quarter. We also had lower personnel expenses, reflecting the reduction of 5,300 mortgage FTEs we announced in the third quarter and additional reductions of approximately 1,100 FTEs announced in the fourth quarter.

The full-quarter run rate of these lower FTEs will be reflected in expenses in the first quarter. We have reduced our retail mortgage fulfillment FTEs by nearly 50% since our peak staffing levels in the first quarter of 2013.

Our servicing revenue was up $205 million from the third quarter and up $459 million from a year ago, as prepayment speeds have slowed.

We announced at the end of the quarter an agreement with Fannie Mae , which was fully covered through previously established mortgage repurchase accruals, that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities related to loans originated prior to 2009. Reflecting our agreement with Fannie Mae , our outstanding repurchase demands were down 46% from the third quarter to $708 million.

As a reminder, we announced the last quarter a similar agreement with (technical difficulty) Mac, so we have now resolved substantially all agency repurchase demands for loans originated prior to 2009. As a result, outstanding repurchase demands were down $1.2 billion from a year ago and our repurchase reserve declined to $899 million, the lowest level since the second quarter of 2009.

Expenses were stable (technical difficulty) the third quarter, declining $17 million, as shown on page 13. Salary expense was down $99 million, reflecting lower mortgage banking staffing and severance expense. Incentive compensation expense was down $54 million, driven by lower mortgage production revenue, partially offset by higher investment banking and Retail Brokerage activity.

A number of our expenses are typically higher in the fourth quarter, such as equipment expense, which was up $96 million due to seasonally higher annual license renewals. Our outside professional services increased $131 million, which included higher project-related spending on business investments and compliance and regulatory-related initiatives.

Our efficiency ratio improved to 58.5% in the quarter, down 62 basis points. While we will have seasonally higher personnel costs in the first quarter, we will have lower project spending and lower mortgage expenses, reflecting a full-quarter run rate from reduced staffing. We expect that our efficiency ratio will remain within our targeted range of 55% to 59% in the first quarter.

Turning to our business segments, starting on page 14. Community Banking earned $3.2 billion in the fourth quarter, up 12% from a year ago and down 4% from the third quarter. Retail Banking continued to consistently grow cross-sell, achieving a record 6.16 products per household, up from 6.05 products a year ago.

Our credit card business continued to have strong results, benefiting from seasonality and new account growth. We grew new accounts by 29% from a year ago, and household penetration increased to 37%, up from 33% in the fourth quarter of 2012. Purchase volume grew 14% from a year ago.

Our auto business had an outstanding year, with record originations in 2013, up 26% from a year ago. This strong growth reflects the increase in car sales and the benefit of a partnership with GM.

We remain focused on serving the needs of our small business customers as well. We extended $18.9 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during 2013, up 18% from 2012, and grew our primary checking customers by -- excuse me, our primary business checking customers by a net 4.7% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago.

Wholesale Banking earned $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter, up 4% from a year ago and up 7% from the third quarter. These results reflected strong deposit and loan growth, both up 7% from a year ago. Loan growth was broad-based and included strong growth in Asset Backed Finance, Commercial Real Estate, and International.

Our investment banking business continued to have strong growth, with 2013 market share of 5.6%, up from 5% in 2012. This growth reflects the success we have had by focusing on relationships, with investment banking revenue from Wholesale Banking customers up 22% in 2013, including a 16% increase in revenue from existing commercial and corporate customers.

Treasury Management revenue was up 8% in 2013, reflecting strong sales growth and pricing increases. We continually invest in this business's products and platforms and have been expanding our team of treasury sales experts because this is an important product for building relationships with our Wholesale customers.

Our Asset Management business also had an outstanding year in 2013, with total assets under management up 8%, reflecting net client inflows and increased market valuations.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $491 million in the fourth quarter, up 40% from a year ago and 9% from the third quarter. As you know, this is a business that we have been focusing on and investing in, since managing more of our customers' wealth is an important part of our vision of meeting our customers' financial needs.

Our results benefited from the improvement in the markets and strong net flows. WBR client assets grew 11% to $1.6 trillion from a year ago. This growth was broad-based and included Retail Brokerage managed account assets of $375 billion, up 23%, and Wealth Management client assets of $218 billion, up 7%.

Institutional Retirement plan assets grew 12% from a year ago. We also had strong deposit and loan growth, with average core deposits up 7% and average loans up 12% from a year ago.

Turning to credit on page 17, the significant improvement we had in credit quality throughout 2013 continued, with fourth-quarter net charge-offs declining to only 47 basis points of average loans. Loans in our Commercial portfolio were only 6 basis points, and consumer losses declined to 82 basis points.

We continued to have strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate secured portfolios. Our commercial real estate portfolios were once again in a net recovery position, as they have been every quarter in 2013. Our consumer real estate portfolios continue to benefit from the improvement in the housing market, with losses down $918 million or 69% from a year ago.

Nonperforming assets declined $1.1 billion from the third quarter, and were down $4.9 billion or 20% from a year ago. Both commercial and consumer nonaccrual loans declined, while foreclosed assets increased $135 million from the third quarter, reflecting an increase in government-insured foreclosed assets, primarily driven by changes to loan modification programs, which slowed foreclosures in prior quarters.

Reflecting the continued improvement in economic conditions, we had a $600 million reserve release, down from $900 million last quarter. Given current favorable conditions, we expect future reserve releases, absent a significant deterioration in the economy.

We grew our estimated common equity tier 1 ratio under Basel III to 9.78% in the fourth quarter, 78 basis points above our internal target of 9%. While we have been building capital, we have also been focused on returning more capital to our shareholders.

We increased our dividend by 31% in 2013 and purchased 124 million shares. We remain committed to returning more capital to our shareholders, and our 2014 capital plan requested an increase in our dividend and share repurchases compared with our 2013 capital plan. Of course, our request is subject to Fed review and non-objection.

In summary, our results in the fourth quarter and throughout 2013 were outstanding. We grew loans and deposits, increased our capital and liquidity levels, and reduced risk as our diversified businesses generated double-digit earnings and EPS growth. In addition, we returned $11.4 billion to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

While the future is never certain, we start 2014 in a much better position than we started 2013. The slow and steady growth we had in 2013 positions the US economy for continued growth in 2014.

We have successfully settled many outstanding issues during 2013, including pre-2009 agency repurchase demands, agency MBS securitization, and the Independent Foreclosure Review. We also have more clarity regarding Basel III capital requirements and have taken actions in response to increased regulatory liquidity expectations.

We believe that we have never been positioned better, and we are excited about the opportunities ahead for our customers, our team members, and our shareholders. We will now open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Matt O'Connor , Deutsche Bank .

MATT O'CONNOR , ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK : Good morning. Circling back on the efficiency ratio, and I guess specifically on the expenses here, as we think about entering 2014, what's a good expense base? You've got $12.1 billion roughly; there are some seasonal factors; there's some of the mortgage costs that need to come out. How should we think about that in kind of a static revenue environment?

TIM SLOAN : Well, I wouldn't worry about it being a static revenue environment. Our goal is to grow revenues over time, and I think we have been able to do that, notwithstanding some of the challenges that we had.

Matt, we are really focused, as we think about our expenses, on revenue efficiency and the efficiency ratio: how much it costs us to deliver a dollar of revenue. We were very pleased to be able to improve our efficiency to 58.5%, again, down 62 basis points from the third quarter and down almost 30 basis points from the fourth quarter of last year.

I think when you think about the fourth-quarter efficiency and expenses, we did call out that we had some seasonal expenses that boosted the total expenses in the fourth quarter. We talked about some of the equipment expenses as well as some of the professional fees.

As you think about the first quarter, our expectation is that we will be able to operate within our range of 55% to 59% and believe that over the year we can continue to improve that from the first quarter. I do think we will have some benefit in the first quarter from lower seasonal expenses, as we mentioned. We will also have some benefit from a lower run rate of expenses in the mortgage business.

But overall, again, we are very focused on the efficiency ratio and we continue to believe that we can make improvements.

MATT O'CONNOR : Then just as a follow-up, can you remind us what needs to happen to get to the lower end of that 55% to 59%? Obviously, it is a big range and you can show continued progress.

But that 55%, would that depend on a materially different macro environment? Or can you get there executing just what you can control?

TIM SLOAN : Well, it is a fair point, Matt. Because we look at the efficiency ratios, it is going to be a function of expense dollars as well as revenue. I think to get to the low end of that range, we will need to see the combination of both, improved expenses and lower expenses, which we think can do over time, but also with improved revenue.

That said, if revenue takes off and the dollar amount of our expenses are up and our efficiency ratio improved, that is fine, too.

MATT O'CONNOR : Just sneaking in a quick one here, on the equity investment book can you just remind us how big it is? And is there any impact from Volcker on that portfolio?

TIM SLOAN : Yes, a good question. Overall -- let me answer maybe a little bit broader question and that is that as we looked at the final Volcker rules, there aren't any real significant or material changes that we need to make in any of our businesses to comply.

The only area -- obviously there is going to be increased reporting and things like that. The only product business line that is really impacted, which is the crux of your question, is our equity portfolio -- the portion of our equity portfolio, excuse me, that is made up of limited partnership investment. That is a little bit less than $2 billion.

We stopped making those investments a few years ago when the first draft of the Volcker rule came out. So that portfolio is liquidating down in the normal course.

From time to time we could potentially do some sales from that portfolio. But we don't believe that compliance with Volcker and the liquidation of that portfolio in the normal course will have a material impact on our financial results.

MATT O'CONNOR : Okay. All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald , Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD , ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, good morning, Tim. I was wondering if you could give a little bit of color on the net interest margin, than just income outlook and your thoughts there. I think you said you expect some ongoing pressure on the NIM.

I was just wondering if you could give us some of the puts and takes on that. How does the recent rise in a 10-year yield help you as you reinvest?

And then where are you on these liquidity actions? Do you still need to take more there? Obviously the rules aren't finished, but if you could give us a feel for your progress there.

TIM SLOAN : Yes. I will answer your question in maybe reverse order and maybe start with liquidity. Let me just step back and frame that a little bit, because you have seen us take some liquidity actions in the third and the fourth quarter.

Set the rules aside for a minute. And that is that, first and foremost, we have got to be able to operate this Company with sufficient liquidity to be able to withstand stressed environments, both in terms of an economic downturn as well as an economic expansion. I think we have been able to demonstrate our success in doing that as we went through the last downturn.

So the short answer is that we think that the existing liquidity we have at the Company is sufficient to manage the business.

Having said that, there are a couple of standards that are out there. First there is an international standard, and I can comfortably tell you that we have exceeded the international LCR standards.

Unfortunately, I can't tell you where we stand as relates to the domestic rules because they haven't been finalized yet. The NPR was issued in the fourth quarter, as you know; it is out for comment right now.

I think it is fair to say that generally the current NPR is a little bit more conservative than most of the folks in the industry thought. So in anticipation of finalizing the domestic rules, the way that I would think about it is we've changed the complexion of our liquidity.

And what I mean by that is we have increased some of our longer-term deposits. You saw us do that in the third quarter and the fourth quarter.

And then we issued some additional debt in the third quarter. So we've made a lot of progress in terms of complying with rules that haven't been finalized yet.

The other thing that I would mention is that there's a lot of good dialogue that is going on right now in terms of those rules, and it is likely that there will be some changes. Then lastly, I'd point out that our expectation is the compliance period as it relates to those standards is going to be elongated, meaning we need to get to about 80% compliance by the end of this year, beginning of next year.

So a long-winded overview, but I think what we have been able to demonstrate as we've changed the complexion of our liquidity and anticipated the final rules is that we can still deliver record earnings and we can still grow net interest income. And that is really a good segue into the first part of your question, which is the net interest margin.

The net interest margin was down 12 basis points, and most of that was related to liquidity or deposits, as we mentioned. In fact all of it was.

Half of it was we had great deposit growth. You have seen that over the last 16 quarters; we have had great deposit growth. Long term that is a terrific thing from our perspective, and we will take that impact on the NIM all day long.

Then the other half was related to the full-quarter impact of the liquidity actions that we took in the third quarter, plus the liquidity actions that we took in the fourth quarter. So again a reduction to the NIM, but we have been able to grow net interest income.

So how were we able to do that with the NIM declining? Well, the good news is we had $13.5 billion of point-to-point loan growth, which is absolutely terrific. I can't promise you we will have that every quarter; but boy, not only is it terrific, it was also very broad-based, as I mentioned.

Then also, our securities did grow, and candidly we are in a much better position today than we were six months ago or a year ago or a year and half ago, in terms of the reinvestment yields that we can achieve today versus the roll-off in the existing portfolio. I can't tell you today, because of the valley that occurred over the last few days, that they absolutely offset; but they are pretty close.

So over time, as we said over the last few quarters, we believe that we can continue to grow net interest income.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, great. The second question is on capital return. John mentioned your request to do more this year than last year on capital return. When I think back to your April 2012 Investor Day, you laid out a goal for a total payout ratio of a range of 50% to 65%.

I was wondering if anything has changed. With you now exceeding your Basel III capital targets, industry asset growth still seems sluggish, such that you might consider -- reconsider at some point the upper bound of that target and at some point see yourself paying out more than 65% of total earnings.

TIM SLOAN : Yes, a fair question. The short answer is no, we haven't changed that range of 50% to 65%. Part of the reason is that we're not at the high end of that range yet, so we're going to take it one step at a time.

Clearly we thought the payout that we had in 2013 was a pretty significant increase, as we talked about. On a gross basis $11.4 billion, something that we're very, very proud of.

And as John mentioned and as I mentioned, our capital plan submission requested an increase from that. So we're hopeful to continue to make progress on that, subject to the Fed review. And that -- but it is something, John, that we are going to continue to look at.

But that 50% to 65% is not etched in stone forever. It is going to change just like it has changed throughout our history. John, I don't know if you (multiple speakers)

JOHN STUMPF : Yes, I think that is really an important point. That was a year and a half ago we came out with that. We are still there; but those things change over time.

And as we continue to build liquidity and capital, we are not bound by that. And we are very shareholder friendly here, as I think you have known and our investors have known for a long time.

TIM SLOAN : But, John, I would add -- and maybe this is a bit of an advertisement for our Investor Day that is going to be in May -- we might change that. So that would be a good reason to come.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay. You have kind of inflected and you are now reducing the share count on a net basis, Tim. You're overcoming option issuance and things like that. Do you expect that to continue, with a net reduction in shares?

TIM SLOAN : Yes, we do. Again, I can't promise you it will exactly happen every quarter, but my guess is it probably will. I think that we reached the high point in the second quarter of last year, and we have been very clear that our expectation is to continue to reduce that share count. So that is our plan, John.

JOHN MCDONALD : Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Erika Najarian, Bank of America .

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH : Good morning. I just wanted to take a step back. John, Wells Fargo has been able to post pretty good point-to-point loan growth even with demand in the industry for loans being humdrum. That being said, as we look out to 2014, have we hit an inflection point in terms of loan demand on the corporate side and the consumer side?

JOHN STUMPF : Inflection meaning that loan growth is --?

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Loan demand in both the corporate and the consumer side, loan demand can start picking up for the industry generally.

JOHN STUMPF : You know, I think there will be some loan growth at the industry level. I am much more confident about our ability to grow loans, just based on what we have done in the past, what we have done this past quarter.

But I will tell you I am hearing more when I talk with customers about their interest in building something, adding something, investing in something. So there is more activity going on. I wouldn't say it is going to be a watershed moment; but, yes, I am optimistic about the economy.

We sit here this January as an economy, and frankly as a Company in better shape than I have sat here in the last five or six Januaries. So yes, I am guardedly optimistic about the industry and optimistic about our Company being able to grow loans and over time grow revenues.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. Tim, in terms of the future impact of incremental liquidity actions, I know the NPR in the US is still out for comment. But is it fair for us to assume that the bulk of future liquidity actions won't impact your margin as much as the 6 basis points this quarter?

TIM SLOAN : I would love to be able to tell you absolutely; but since I don't know what the -- we don't know what the final rules are, I want to be careful. So I can't give you a specific answer.

I think the important thing is should you have confidence in, A, our ability to move forward, to try to anticipate some of those rules, and not have it impact our net interest income or our earnings? The answer is yes.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And if I could sneak one last question in here, is it fair for us to look at the 12% quarter-over-quarter drop that the MBAA is forecasting for origination volume and assume that the drop that Wells Fargo will experience next quarter be similar on a sequential basis?

TIM SLOAN : I don't know if I would jump to that conclusion. Our mix is a little bit different or can be a little bit different on average compared to the industry in any given quarter. I think it is reasonable to assume that there will be a decline, because of the impact of just the colder winter months as well as the fact that the volume is really driven much more by purchase activity now than it was by refinance.

We expect a decline. But to be specific in terms of the magnitude of the decline, I don't know what that is going to be.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets .

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. I guess, first, it's just a quick follow-up or clarification from Erika's question. The loan growth in the core portfolio strengthened quite a bit this quarter to $16.7 billion from $8.6 billion. I understand it is fairly broad-based; but how sustainable do you think that is as we go through 2014 here?

TIM SLOAN : Joe, it's a fair question. I think when you say the $8.6 billion, you're talking about the $8.6 billion from a year ago?

JOE MORFORD: No, the third quarter, just the sequential core growth in the core loan portfolio.

TIM SLOAN : Yes, I mean the good news is that, as you mentioned, that the growth was very broad-based, and again in almost every one of our loan portfolios with the exception of home equity, where we are still originating good quality home equity loans. I don't know if I would take this quarter and say this is what we're going to do every quarter from here on out.

I think there is -- even last year when you X out the impact from some of the tax changes that folks were anticipating, the fourth quarter can tend to be a pretty strong quarter.

Our expectation for 2014 is that we are going to grow loans. What rate that will be, I don't know. But certainly the fact that this quarter was so broad-based I think is a good indication of our ability to grow loans at a faster rate than we did in 2013.

And again, I think the other point to make about loan growth in this quarter is that we didn't have any acquisitions driving that growth. This was all organic.

Not that there is anything wrong with acquisitions; we love them. But that was a bigger driver in the third quarter than it was in the fourth quarter.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That's helpful. Then the other question was just wondering if you could just broadly speak about key areas for investment in 2014. And along those lines, what are your plans for the branch network, given the growth in mobile banking and your recent pilot of the neighborhood stores?

JOHN STUMPF : Joe, we are making a lot of investments in technology, as customers are interested in mobile and in other ways to access us. We still believe that stores are important, and we believe that because our customers tell us that.

We do have that pilot that you mentioned, and we are assessing that, looking at that. We will build stores this year; I don't think there will be a significant net increase because sometimes we build a new one and we consolidate one or two into that.

But most of the investments we're going to be making will be in areas of product and convenience for customers.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller , FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER , ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Hey, guys. We know the mortgage market is on a downward trend, and it looks like the market was down another 25%. But you guys were down more than that, I think north of 30%; and now your market share has dropped down to 17%. I also know that you guys are doing a lot of refis, and a lot of that is the refi side.

What do you see? I know you don't really model the market share; but do you see continued declines in that mortgage space?

And then secondly, do you think that Mel Watt could be a game-changer relative to opening up the credit box, and maybe some of these bigger guys going down the FICO score?

TIM SLOAN : Paul, good question. We have talked on a number of occasions about how our market share over the last couple years was disproportionally high, primarily because the biggest driver for origination volume until the last couple of quarters was refinances. And the reason for that, again to remind everybody, is that we are the largest servicer and the quality of our servicing book was the highest in the industry. So we had many more opportunities than most to be able to meet the needs of our customers by refinancing existing customers, by refinancing their mortgages.

So it is not surprising and something that we had been indicating was going to occur, as the percentage of refinance volume declined, the absolute dollars as well as the percentage of the total decline, that our market share would go down.

I think as we get to a more purchase-driven market, we actually think we have got a great opportunity to grow the business because we have the biggest retail network and salesforce in the market. So we believe that we can grow over time.

But again the focus is not about market share. The focus is about generating appropriate revenue, making sure that we are meeting the needs of our customers, and doing that very efficiently.

So again we are very excited about the transition into a purchase-driven market, because we have got the best team and the largest team that is out there.

JOHN STUMPF : Paul, with respect to Mel Watt, we are looking forward to working with him. We know him, and I believe he has the same interest we all have as Americans and as our institutions that make mortgage lending and money available to credit-worthy Americans so that they can buy houses.

He already has -- he is digging in. He's put the increase in the G-fee just on hold so he can understand. So we are looking forward to working with him.

PAUL MILLER : Do you think the government could make some adjustments there to get the industry to maybe open up the credit box more than it is right now?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, I still believe there are some mixed messages coming out of Congress -- or Washington, I should say. And if we can all get on the same page, that would be helpful.

I think there is some movement happening in that direction, but we just continue to work on that.

PAUL MILLER : Okay. Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch , Credit Suisse .

MOSHE ORENBUCH , ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE : Great. Thanks. Most of my questions of actually been asked and answered; but just following up a little on the mortgage business, you've alluded to this in a couple of different iterations. But given how rapid that decline in refinance has been and is likely to continue, are there any either -- are there steps that you are taking or strategic opportunities that you see in the business over the next couple of quarters?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, you know, we announced recently that we are going to be doing some portfolio lending for jumbos and high end, and we have an emphasis on that. As you know, housing is a uniquely important asset class for Americans and uniquely important for recoveries. There has been no recovery where housing did not play a leadership role.

And that is part of my optimism for the future, in that housing is getting better and that we are seeing more activity on the purchase side, which is really good for America. So we will continue to make conforming loans, and we are also doing more with respect to our balance sheet.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Just anything with respect to integrating it somewhat more directly with the consumer bank?

JOHN STUMPF : Well, I tell you, they are really -- all hands are on deck there. I don't recall the exact percentage, but it might be 30% or so, but whatever mortgage we do get come from referrals from our bankers. So it is a big part. It is very integrated.

And actually, when you have a purchase money market, that actually plays to our strengths because we are so active, involved with builders, realtors, and there is a lot of referral activity that goes on to help serve those customers.

MOSHE ORENBUCH : Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Just first a technical question. The changes in accretable yield on purchased credit-impaired loans, so this is back around page 33, 34, 35 of the news release or in the back section of it. But the drawdown there, the change in accretable yield, I thought it would be drawn down even a little bit more in the fourth quarter.

It seems like it has been drawn down a lot year-over-year, but the last quarter it wasn't drawn down a lot. Just conceptually I thought the better credit quality for some of these problem loans, the more you can realize a recover to earnings; and it looks like it slowed in the fourth quarter. Can you just give some color on that accounting and what you are seeing?

TIM SLOAN : Mike, there wasn't any major changes that occurred from an accounting standpoint in the fourth quarter. As you know, from time to time we have looked at the amount of our accretable yield and nonaccretable difference and made some adjustments. We did not do that in the fourth quarter.

So I would just describe the fourth quarter as just a reflection of just changes within the underlying customer mix. We had more customers that were paying their loans, and then some that paid off; but there was nothing major that occurred in the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: Well, how often do you take a look at that? Because isn't it the case that with better credit quality that you would tend to realize some gains over time?

TIM SLOAN : Mike, it's something that we think about and talk about a lot. But from a process point of view, we review it on a quarterly basis to make an affirmative decision in terms of the amount of the nonaccretable difference in the nonaccretable yield in terms of whether or not we make any changes. But that is a quarterly update that we do.

JOHN STUMPF : And, Mike, you know, as we make those determinations it then accretes in over the life of the asset. So it is a long event, if you will, over 12, 13, 14 years, whatever the life of those assets is how that accretes in.

TIM SLOAN : Yes, I think the important point just to remember is that when you turn the clock back five years ago I think there was a lot of skepticism in terms of whether or not the right marks were taken at the time of the Wells Fargo and Wachovia combination. And there was a lot of concerns about the portfolio.

As you know, the accretable yield has actually increased over that period of time. So we have $19.1 billion that is expected to accrete over the remaining life of the loans, so we are very excited about that.

MIKE MAYO: Then a separate question. It goes to what you can control and what you can't control.

Let's go to what you can't control as easily, and that is the economy. You guys have talked about that some. What is the line utilization for Commercial or Wholesale in the most recent quarter?

TIM SLOAN : You know what? It hasn't really changed a whole lot. It's still about, or in the mid-30%s.

But that wasn't a major driver for loan growth in the quarter. At some point we will get to the point where there is a little bit more utilization; but that has been pretty stable in the mid-30%s.

MIKE MAYO: Then separate from the market share that I know Wells would like to continue to gain, you seem more optimistic on the economy. But line utilization hasn't really changed; it sounds like fourth quarter you had some good loan growth, but maybe it won't be quite as strong, as seasonally strong.

So do you really feel the economy is that much stronger? John, you said the best January in five to six years. Are you thinking the next couple quarters, next couple years? What drives you to that conclusion?

JOHN STUMPF : Yes, when I was talking about the best January, that is compared to the last five Januaries I sat and had this kind of conversation with you. Our merger is done. Capital liquidity, credit, legal issues, view on regulatory: all better. Deposit growth, loan growth, cross-sell, the engagement of the team: so all those things are better.

Is it -- am I saying there is a full recovery and there is going to be a watershed moment this year? No, I am not saying that.

But I am saying that I am starting to hear more things from more prospects and customers about buying a car, building a house, starting a business, adding new product lines. There are certain -- you see some of that. A couple years ago I didn't even hear about that.

So, it is not going to be a breakout year, but we are going to see steady improvement. And that is good for -- even though, as rates rise in response to that, which is a morale thing, that reduces the refinance volume. The other side of that, it's improving credit, which improves a lot of things.

So that is good for America and good for our Company over the long term.

MIKE MAYO: Then lastly, what you certainly can control. I know you're proud of having 16 quarters in a row of higher EPS growth, but I don't imagine you expect this level of equity investment gains to continue or this level of reserve releases to continue.

You called out some seasonal expenses. But how do you expect to continue that progression? What should be the main drivers?

TIM SLOAN : Mike, look, we're not going to promise you that we are going to have the 17th consecutive quarter. We hope we do; but the fact of the matter is the complexion of every quarter is different.

We could have had -- and I think we probably did have this same conversation about a year ago: how are you going to be able to grow? When you think about what the Company has accomplished over this last year in the face of a significant backup of interest rates that had a big impact on one of our businesses, we were able to deliver record earnings.

How were we able to do that? We grew our loans, we grew our investments, we grew our deposits. If you look at noninterest income outside of mortgage origination, we went through a laundry list of five or six businesses, and there are more that were up, and most of those were up double digits.

We have improved our efficiency. John has mentioned we think we can continue to make progress there.

And credit continues to improve. Will we have a loan-loss reserve release in the first quarter of $600 million? I don't know. We do think we are going to have future loan-loss reserve releases.

So the fact of the matter is that what we have been able to demonstrate in the fourth quarter and all of 2013 is our diversified model works even in the face of headwinds. And as John mentioned, it doesn't seem like there's as many headwinds out there than there were a year ago in January.

So we are very excited about our ability to continue to grow earnings. Whether that means 17, 18 or 19 quarters, I don't know. But over time we are going to grow earnings at this Company.

MIKE MAYO: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, good morning, guys. On the brokerage business, the business this year, the trust and investment fees grew 13%; nice acceleration. Just wondering, especially with the lag kind of built in on some of the pricing of the fee-based stuff, how confident do you feel that you can sustain that kind of low-, mid-teens type of growth rate in that part of the Company?

TIM SLOAN : Yes, Ken, good question. I don't know if I'd focus on a specific growth rate. We do think we can continue to grow, and it is going to be a function of the fact that there is a little bit of a lag in terms of how the business is priced and paid for.

The Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement business has done a great job in terms of increasing the percentage of their recurring fee revenue. I think it is now above 75%, and that was the goal that David Carroll set out at our Investor Day a couple of years ago.

So we do think we can continue to grow. What the growth rate will be, I don't know.

But in addition, one of the other things that we talked about at Investor Day a couple years ago was the partnership between the WBR and our Retail Bank, and that partnership continues to work very well from a referral basis. So that business is performing very, very well.

Our expectation is that it will continue to grow. I hope that it continues to grow at a double-digit rate, but can't promise you that.

KEN USDIN: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF : Our expectations are pretty high there, because we are starting from a lower base. And if you look at the size of our Retail franchise, versus the size of the Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement, we have lots of upside.

And as Tim mentioned, the partnership especially between the Community Bank and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement couldn't be better and there's just tons of opportunity there. So it is a big opportunity for the Company.

KEN USDIN: Okay, great. Then secondly, with regard to rate sensitivity, you guys disclose your rate disclosure a little different than most others do. I am just wondering with regards to the liquidity preparation and the changes you have made that, Tim, you referred to earlier, how, if at all, does these -- the new rules on the liquidity side change at all your asset sensitivity, when and if someday we get the front end moving? And maybe I will just leave it there.

TIM SLOAN : Yes, good question. It really -- given the amount of liquidity build that we had in the third quarter, it wasn't a -- it didn't have a material impact on our total balance sheet. It did affect net interest margin, as we mentioned.

So it really doesn't have a big impact on our interest rate sensitivity. We have experienced the biggest impact that we could have to the Company from an interest rate sensitivity standpoint when you think about the impact that we had in the third and fourth quarter from the rate rise and the impact on the mortgage business. We are very sensitive to a rise in the short rate, which I know everybody believes will never happen, but someday it will and that will be beneficial to us.

KEN USDIN: Okay, great. Then last just quick question. The tax rate's been running a little bit lower. Do you have any thoughts on just what we should be thinking about as far as a future tax rate? Thanks, guys.

TIM SLOAN : Yes. The tax rate for the fourth quarter was 30.9%. That was a little bit higher than the fourth quarter of last year.

Our expectation for this year is that our tax rate will be plus or minus where it is been this year, maybe just a little bit higher. But that is not going to -- that shouldn't have a material impact on our results.

KEN USDIN: Yes.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio , KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO , ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning, John, Tim. I have just got two quick follow-up questions. On the professional services costs that you highlighted being about $130 million or so higher on a sequential-quarter basis, I think you broke that into two different buckets: project spend and then also compliance and maybe regulatory-related spend. Can you break down those two different buckets that caused the $130 million increase?

And then as a follow-up, how much of the compliance and regulatory-related part of that is permanent? Or is it not permanent?

TIM SLOAN : Some really good questions. One of the challenges that we have is that a lot of the -- some of the investment that we are making, say for a project, impacts both just the investment in the business, but also it is going to have a regulatory or a compliance nature to it. So I don't really -- I don't have any detail handy to break that down because it is not exactly how we think about it.

I will tell you that, as we mentioned last quarter, that our compliance and regulatory costs are up year-over-year. We are in the process right now of making sure that we have got the best risk-managed company in the industry, so there will be some continued investment that we'll need to make their.

Having said that, how much of that is permanent and how much is a one- or two-time type of investment, I don't have an answer for you. So I apologize for not being able to provide some real specifics there. But again, to repeat, I do think you will see a decline in the professional service line in the first quarter.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : Okay. That's fair enough. A separate question. The net charge-offs ratio was pretty stable with third quarter. I was wondering, do you think we finally have hit a floor on that ratio? Or could there have been some year-end cleanup in fourth quarter that would lead you to believe that maybe charge-offs could go even lower in first quarter?

TIM SLOAN : I don't know for sure. Here is the way I would think about it. I will give you two numbers that made up the 47 basis points.

The losses that we had in our commercial portfolio were about 6 basis points. We think we have got a great team that is very good at making loans on the commercial side. But having a loss rate at 6 basis points is probably not something that is going to happen forever. So I think there is probably over time -- not necessarily in the first quarter -- some pressure there.

On the other hand, the losses in our consumer portfolio were about 82 basis points. Now, when you think about the composition of the consumer portfolio, clearly there is some portion of that portfolio that is going to have higher loss rates. Like credit card; that is an area that we are building over time.

On the other hand when you look at some of the other consumer businesses, we are not originating loans today that are going to generate 82 basis points of loss in the next year or two years. We are originating high-quality loans.

So my guess is there is probably a little bit more pressure over time, commercial loss rate to go up and into the consumer loss rate to go down. And again when you look at that 82 basis points, the disproportionate share continues to come from our home equity portfolio, which among all the portfolios is really benefiting from the improvement in underlying residential real estate values.

CHRIS MUTASCIO : Fair enough. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim Securities.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Hey, I wanted to ask you two lines of questioning. First, on the share count, if you look at the repurchase volume that you have been able to do, share count is holding relatively flat. I was curious if you thought, as you increased repurchase going forward, do you think the share count can start to come down? And then I wanted to ask you one more question about that.

TIM SLOAN : Well, Marty, in fact the share count has been down from the high in the fourth quarter -- or I'm sorry, in the second quarter of last year. The short answer to your question is yes; the primary driver there is going to be the level of our share repurchases. We increased our share repurchases this year over last year.

We have submitted a capital plan which calls for a request, more share repurchase. So the short answer again is yes. We think we can bring that down over time.

MARTY MOSBY: The impact of equity compensation, would you think the dilution that you did have, that offset some of the share repurchase, would that be more from issuance or more from market price appreciation?

TIM SLOAN : Well, it's a complicated answer to a straightforward question. Recall that we changed our options program a couple of years ago or a few years ago, so the impact of that is going to decline.

On the other hand, we will continue to have a good portion of our incentive compensation around here based upon equity, because we believe that that aligns our team members with our shareholders. So the fact that that is there is very important to us; and hopefully you will appreciate it's important to you.

But I don't imagine that that is going to have a significant change to the share count calculation. The primary driver there is going to be our ability to repurchase more shares. And again, we think we can increase that over time.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. The other area I want to delve into was asset sensitivity. Earlier questions were starting to allude to that.

But as you have seen this outsize deposit growth that you've been able to attract, you have been really pushing that more and more into cash. So that does make you more asset sensitive than probably your just overall measure would look.

Then also, as longer-term rates start to go up, you can begin to be able to restructure the portfolio a little bit. You have got excess capital. There is going to be some opportunities to accelerate asset sensitivity by restructuring as well.

So just thought you could think about a few of those kind of tactics or other things that might make you be more asset sensitive than you look on the cover of your reports.

TIM SLOAN : Well, you're absolutely correct. We are very asset sensitive.

The disproportionate share of our loan portfolio is floating rate. In an environment where the short end of the curve starts to increase, which at some point it will, we believe that that will be a net addition to revenues, because our loans will probably reprice faster than our deposits. You have seen that before with Wells Fargo in prior cycles.

In terms of the investment portfolio, you are also correct in that, given the backup in rates and the current yields that we are getting off our portfolio, we can get some much more attractive returns that are more or less about what the runoff is right now -- not exactly. But as rates continue to rise it is going to make those returns even more attractive, and we will get some benefit from a revenue standpoint there.

So we think we are positioned fairly well for the environment that we are likely to be in over the next few years, which is in the short term probably an increase in the long end of the curve. I don't know by how much, but it probably will increase; and then in the next year to two years, an increase in the short end.

MARTY MOSBY: Then lastly, John, you mentioned the mortgage portfolio and increasing the volume there. With the G-fees going up here shortly, especially on the higher-quality customers, those low G-fees historically have pushed us to origination and servicing versus portfolio and mortgages.

But it seems like you are really looking at it as an opportunity, especially with the steeper yield curve, to add some assets with value, especially as mortgage rates relatively adjust to these new G-fees.

JOHN STUMPF : That's right. My understanding is the latest increase in G-fees, the one that was suggested has actually been put on hold for a bit. But absent that, yes, we think there is opportunity here to serve a customer base through portfolio lending. And we have been -- we have done that for a long time.

But there's opportunities here, and we sure want to serve that customer base.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Keith Murray, ISI.

KEITH MURRAY, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: I just wanted to ask on -- what's your home price assumptions as you think about sizing the mortgage business, and on the credit side as well? What do you assume for home prices for 2014?

JOHN STUMPF : We think probably a lot -- or most economists are in the range of 3% to 5% increase if you look broadly. Now, I think what you are seeing is some more regionalization going on in residential real estate.

I mean, I live in San Francisco. It has been stronger here than, for example, than in the Central Valley. But housing is getting better generally everywhere, but I think 3% to 5% is a pretty safe range.

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. Then just going back to the payout ratio, specifically on dividends, you were right at 30% for 2013 dividend payout. As you think about approaching this year's CCAR, what are you comfortable with on the dividend payout ratio?

I know above 30% gets you extra scrutiny. Just how do you think about the dividend payout?

JOHN STUMPF : I can just repeat what Tim and I had said is that the submission is in. It is our request to do more on dividends and repurchase.

It is in with the Fed right now. We will all know here in another six weeks or so. So let's just wait for that time and see where that comes out.

KEITH MURRAY: Okay. Thanks a lot.

JOHN STUMPF : Why don't I just thank everybody for joining us? I very much appreciate your interest in our Company and the questions, and we will see you next quarter. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : C&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : C&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : C&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ-Roll Call, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020140116ea1e002s1
  


 HD
 Q3  2013 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,863 words
   PD
11 October 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Brent and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions).

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Brent, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, Tim Sloan, will discuss third-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplements available on our website.

I will now turn our call over to Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT AND CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and thanks everyone for joining us today. Wells Fargo continued to demonstrate the benefit of our diversified business model generating record earnings in the third quarter and achieving our 15th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth.

While the drivers of our earnings growth over this period have differed reflecting the changing economic and interest rate environment, our focus on meeting our customers' financial needs has remained at the same.

There are currently some new economic challenges with the US government shutdown and the possibility of the government defaulting on its debt but prior to these recent events, the economy had continued its pace of moderate growth with gains in consumer spending, business investment, and employment. While the recovery remains uneven, there are many positive signs including increased small business optimism and a dramatic improvement in household net worth with household leverage now lower than any time since 2002 which provides capacity for consumer spending and borrowing going forward.

The housing market also continues to demonstrate strong momentum. While as expected higher rates reduced mortgage refinancing activity this quarter, home price appreciation remains strong and affordability remains excellent. This improvement has benefited our customers and contributed to our overall credit performance.

Let me take a moment to comment on the current situation in Washington and how we think about the implications for Wells Fargo.

A prolonged government shutdown and potential debt ceiling breach is unnecessary and troublesome and will likely create new needs for our customers and their families. I have asked our business leaders to identify ways we can help our customers directly affected by the shutdown whether it is furloughed government workers or a customer distressed by agency closures and we stand ready to assist our customers during this period.

More importantly, for our country, I feel it is important for our leaders in Washington to set aside partisan differences, break the logjam and find workable solutions that are in the best interests of our nation and our economy. I am encouraged by the news coming out of the nation's capital yesterday.

We have managed through changing environments in the past and our experience and vision will guide us through this period of transition as well. Our results this quarter reflected the dynamic environment we are in and the benefit of our diversity. Let me share some highlights.

Our record earnings of $5.6 billion and record earnings per share of $0.99 were up 13% from a year ago. Our core loan portfolio grew by $44.2 billion, up 6%. This strong performance was broad-based with growth in our commercial and consumer portfolios reflecting organic growth and the acquisition of two commercial real estate portfolios.

Our credit performance was exceptional as we continued to benefit from our conservative underwriting and improving economic conditions especially in housing with our net charge-offs down to 48 basis points annualized and our total net charge-off dollars down 59% from year ago.

Our outstanding deposit franchise continues to generate strong deposit growth with average deposits up $79.1 billion from year ago while reduced deposit costs by 6 basis points to just 12 basis points for the entire portfolio.

We deepened relationships across our Company achieving record retail banking cross-sell of 6.15 products per household. Wholesale banking grew their cross-sell to 7 products and wealth brokerage retirement cross-sell increased to 10.41 OpEx.

We had very strong returns, growing return on assets by 8 basis points to 1.53% and return on equity increased by 69 basis points to 14.07%. Our capital levels continued to grow and our estimated Tier 1 common equity under Basel III increased to 9.54% surpassing our stated 9% target. We look forward to the upcoming CCAR process where we expect to request a higher dividend and an increase to our share repurchases.

Tim will now provide more details on our third-quarter results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR VP AND CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then take your questions.

Our financial results this quarter demonstrated the benefit of our diversity and our risk discipline as we continued to produce strong results. Wells Fargo earned a record $5.6 billion and grew earnings per share to $0.99, both up 13% from year ago. We have now achieved 15 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and 10 consecutive quarters of record EPS.

As John highlighted and as you can see on page 3, our year-over-year results reflected loan growth that was well diversified as well as strong deposit growth. Lower mortgage banking revenue resulted in a decline in pre-tax pre-provision profit compared with the year ago. The higher rate environment which has reduced mortgage refinancing volume has resulted in a transitional period for our mortgage business. We have expected and planned for lower mortgage volumes and have managed through these periods in the past. I will provide more detail on mortgage trends later in the call.

However, we are still able to grow earnings and increase returns driven by strong net interest income, fee growth across many of our businesses, and significantly improved credit.

Our revenue diversification is highlighted on page 4. Different businesses naturally contribute more or less to our revenue depending on the economic and interest rate environment but our revenue remained almost evenly split between net interest and noninterest income and our sources of fee income were very well diversified. This is a benefit of our business model. We don't rely on any one business to generate growth.

Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our third-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective starting on page 5.

Our balance sheet has never been stronger. We increased earning assets by growing loans and purchasing securities. We continued to strengthen our capital levels even as we returned more capital to our shareholders.

Let me take a moment to highlight our improved liquidity position. While we believe our liquidity position was already strong, with heightened regulatory expectations, we have been adding to our position over the past few months. We increased long-term debt and term deposits at very low rates and most of the proceeds went into cash and short-term investments. While building our liquidity put some pressure on our net interest margin, it did not impact our bottom line.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, net interest income remained strong driven by a $23.3 billion increase in average earning assets. Mortgage revenue declined as expected but we had growth in other fee categories. Our expenses decline, driven by lower personnel expense and lower operating losses.

Our effective tax rate in the third quarter was 31.9%. During the quarter, we finalized settlements with tax authorities regarding prior period tax issues primarily associated with certain cross-border transactions. Primarily due to these settlements, we recorded a net reduction in our reserve for uncertain tax positions which resulted in a tax benefit in the third quarter of $166 million.

Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail. As shown on page 7, we continue to have strong loan growth with period end loans up $29.7 billion or 4% from a year ago and up $10.3 billion from the second quarter. Excluding our liquidating portfolio, our core portfolio grew by $44.2 billion or 6% from a year ago and was up $13.8 billion from the second quarter.

Commercial loans grew $8.5 billion in the quarter with broad-based organic growth and $5.2 billion from acquisitions. Consumer loans grew $1.8 billion with growth in nonconforming first mortgage loans, auto, credit card and private student lending partially offset by the expected runoff from the liquidating portfolio and core home equity loans.

Even during a period with tepid industry loan growth, we have been able to grow our loans on a year-over-year basis for nine consecutive quarters and for the past six quarters, year-over-year growth has been at least 3% despite runoff from a liquidating portfolio. Our growth is the result of remaining committed to meeting the financial needs of our customers and benefiting from opportunities to grow through acquisitions.

On slide 8, we highlight the drivers of our loan growth from a year ago. Real estate one- through four-family first mortgage loans grew $14.4 billion, or 6% even with the runoff from our liquidating portfolio and included growth in high quality nonconforming mortgages and the retention of conforming mortgages.

C&I loans were up $13.5 billion, or 8%. We had broad-based growth in asset-backed finance, government banking, corporate banking and commercial banking.

Foreign loans grew $6.9 billion, or 17% which included $4 billion from the UK CRE acquisition we completed in the quarter as well as trade finance growth.

Auto loans were up $3.6 billion, or 8% reflecting continued strong originations.

Credit card balances were up $1.8 billion or 7% with strong new account growth reflecting increased car penetration as well as marketing efforts.

Deposit growth remains strong with average deposits up $15.8 billion from the second quarter and up $79.1 billion or 8% from a year ago. We grew our primary consumer checking customers by a net 3.9% from a year ago, up from 3.5% last quarter. The growth in these relationship-based customers should benefit our future results as we remain focused on meeting more of our customers' needs.

We continued to reduce deposit costs which were down 6 basis points from a year ago and 2 basis points from the second quarter. We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit cost for 10 consecutive quarters with average deposit costs declining to 12 basis points in the third quarter. Our strong deposit performance over an extended period of time is a fundamental strength of our franchise.

As shown on page 10, tax equivalent net interest income remained strong. Our ability to grow net interest income over the past year while the net interest margin has declined 28 basis points reflected the benefit of our loan growth and our disciplined approach to investing.

Net interest income was essentially unchanged from the second quarter benefiting from one additional day in the quarter, higher securities balances, loan growth, and lower funding costs. These benefits were offset by an expected decline in mortgages held for sale and lower variable income.

Average earning assets grew $23.3 billion from the second quarter reflecting increases in short-term investments, AFS securities, and loans. We purchased $19.8 billion of AFS securities primarily in the form of Agency MBS during the third quarter prior to the decline in rates late in the quarter.

While our net interest income remained stable, our net interest margin declined by 8 basis points from the second quarter to 3.38%. This decline was driven by four primary factors. First, our continued deposit growth which has little impact on net interest income but is dilutive to the NIM, reduced the margin by 3 basis points. The liquidity related actions that we took in the quarter reduced the margin by 3 basis points also.

The net impact of balance sheet repricing and growth reduced the margin by 1 basis point. And then finally, variable income which includes PCI loan resolutions, had periodic dividends was lower this quarter and reduced the margin by 1 basis point. We currently expect continued net interest margin pressure.

Non-interest income was down $898 million from the second quarter driven primarily by lower mortgage refinance volume and reduced gain on sale margins, which I will highlight shortly.

Because the reduction in mortgage revenue and the impact from seasonality on a linked-quarter basis can make it difficult to demonstrate the underlying momentum we have in many of our businesses, it is helpful to look at our year-over-year trends excluding mortgage. On page 11, we show noninterest income excluding mortgage banking and you can see that we grew 5% compared with a year ago.

Let me highlight some of the momentum we have across a number of our businesses. Deposit service charges were up $68 million from a year ago benefiting from strong account growth. Trust and investment fees were up $322 million with strong growth in brokerage asset base fees and investment banking. Card fees were up $69 million benefiting from strong account growth and increased usage in both our credit and debit card business.

Commercial real estate brokerage commissions grew $35 million from strong private and public market activity. Equity gains were up $338 million, reflecting gains from several transactions in the quarter. Equity gains are naturally volatile on a quarterly basis but on a year-to-date basis, gains are only up $48 million compared with 2012.

We are in a transitional period in our mortgage business. As expected with the increase in mortgage rates, our mortgage origination volume declined this quarter, particularly refinance activity, as highlighted on page 12. We have managed through many refi cycles in the past and remain committed to the mortgage business which is an important product for our customers and benefits from our cross-sell focus.

We are originated $80 billion of mortgages in the third quarter and with the rise in rates, refi volume declined to 41% of originations down from 56% in the second quarter and down from 71% in the first quarter of 2012.

Purchase volume remained relatively strong in the third quarter, down 4% from the second quarter benefiting from the continued strong housing market. Our unclosed pipeline declined to $35 billion at the end of the quarter reflecting lower application volume and shorter processing times to close mortgage loans as capacities increased. If rates remain where they are today, we would expect lower origination volume in the fourth quarter reflecting lower refi volume and normal fourth-quarter seasonality in the purchase market.

Our gain on sale margin declined from the historically high levels we experienced for the past year to 1.42%. As rates seem to have stabilized and competition has remained rational, we currently expect the margin to remain relatively steady in the fourth quarter.

Reflecting lower origination volume, we had lower incentive compensation expenses related to mortgage production in the quarter. We announced reductions of 5,300 mortgage FTEs in the third quarter which increased our severance cost. Most of the expense reduction from the lower FTEs was not reflected in our expense numbers for the third quarter because of the notice period we provided to our team members. But you should begin to see a reduction in expenses more significantly during the fourth quarter and we will continue to manage our capacity based on demand.

With higher mortgage rates -- while higher mortgage rates reduce our mortgage refi volume, they benefit our servicing business. Our servicing revenue was up $111 million from the second quarter benefiting from a slowdown in the economic amortization of mortgage servicing rights.

As we announced last week, we reached an agreement with Freddie Mac that resolved substantially all repurchase liabilities for loans sold prior to 2009. The cost of this agreement was fully accrued for in prior periods. As a result, our outstanding repurchase demands were down 25% from the second quarter and for the first time in over five years, we did not add to our repurchase reserve in the third quarter other than for reserves established for current period loan sales.

Expenses declined $153 million from the second quarter as shown on page 13. Salary expense was up $142 million which included $63 million in mortgage-related severance expense. Incentive compensation expense was down $225 million driven by lower mortgage revenue and lower capital markets and retail brokerage activity.

Expenses also reflected lower operating losses, down $93 million primarily from lower litigation accruals. The environmentally elevated costs primarily related to our residential mortgage business that we have highlighted over the last few quarters have been significantly reduced. However over time, we do expect to recognize additional benefits from the continued improvement in the housing market including additional reductions to these costs.

We had higher expenses related to the regulatory environment and our compliance activities. We have had a long history of strong risk management practices and in response to the heightened regulatory environment, our expenses increased by approximately $200 million annually.

Our efficiency ratio rose to 59.1% in the quarter reflecting the immediate impact of the reduction in mortgage origination volume. We expect our efficiency ratio to improve in the fourth quarter and we continue to target an efficiency ratio of between 55% and 59%.

Turning to our business segments starting on page 14, community banking earned $3.3 billion in the third quarter, up 3% from the second quarter and up 22% from a year ago. Retail banking continued to consistently grow cross-sell achieving a record of 6.15 products per household, up from 6.04 a year ago.

We continued to benefit from momentum in the credit card business by growing accounts, purchase volumes and balances. We had record new accounts up 9% from a year ago and household penetration increased to 36%, up from 32% a year ago and 28% just two years ago as we continued to increase marketing and enhance our product line. The 14% increase in purchase volume from a year ago reflects this account growth and an increase in active accounts.

Credit card balances were up 3% from the second quarter and up 7% from a year ago.

We also had strong loan growth in our auto business with balances up 2% from the second quarter and up 8% from a year ago. Originations were down 3% from the second quarter due to seasonality but up 9% from a year ago.

By remaining focused on serving the needs of all our small business customers, we were once again America's number one small business lender in dollars for the 11th consecutive year. We extended $14.2 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during the first nine months of 2013, up 24% from a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter, down 2% from the second quarter with lower sales and trading, investment banking and seasonally lower crop insurance fees. Earnings were down 1% from a year ago as lower sales and trading income offset growth in other commercial businesses and strong loan and deposit growth.

While revenue was down from a year ago, we had strong momentum across a number of our commercial businesses including a 10% increase in treasury management revenue. This growth was driven by strong sales growth including continued penetration of existing customers as well as new customer growth and pricing increases.

In addition, commercial card treasury management spend volume increased 22% compared with a year ago. Wholesale banking also benefited from growth in assets under management with AUM up 6% from a year ago driven by strong net inflows and market performance. Wholesale banking's cross-sell grew to 7 products per relationship up from 6.7 a year ago.

Wholesale banking results continued to benefit from consistent loan growth with loans having grown for 12 consecutive quarters. Average loans grew 5% compared with the year ago and was broad-based with growth coming from nearly all our portfolios including asset-backed finance, capital finance, commercial banking, commercial real estate, corporate banking, equipment finance and government and institutional banking.

As I mentioned earlier, loan growth also benefited from UK and US commercial real estate acquisitions.

Wealth brokerage and retirement earned $450 million in the third quarter, up 4% from the second quarter driven by higher net interest income and improved credit quality partially offset by seasonally lower brokerage transaction revenues. Earnings were up 33% from a year ago driven by strong growth in asset-based fees, higher net interest income, and improved credit quality.

Revenue grew 9% from a year ago reflecting strong growth in asset-based fees and higher net interest income. Retail brokerage managed account assets grew to a record $350 billion, up 18% from a year ago driven by strong market performance and net flows.

WBR has strong balance sheet growth with average loans and deposits up 10% from a year ago. Loan balances were up 3% from the second quarter, the fourth consecutive quarter of linked quarter growth. The benefit of meeting all the financial needs of our customers was also reflected in WBR's steadily increasing cross-sell growing to 10.41 products per household in the third quarter, up from 10.27 a year ago.

Turning to credit quality on page 17, our strong performance reflected our long-term risk focus and the benefit from the improving housing market. Third-quarter net charge-offs declined to historically low levels, only 48 basis points at average loans. Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $19 million, or 2 basis points of average loans. Consumer losses declined to 86 basis points.

We continue to have especially strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate portfolios. Our commercial real estate portfolios were once again in a net recovery position and our consumer real estate portfolios reduced their losses by $1.2 billion from a year ago, down 70%. Reflecting these improvements, our provision expense declined $577 million from the second quarter to $75 million and included a $900 million reserve release compared with the release of $500 million in the second quarter. Given current favorable conditions, we continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economy.

In addition to lower charge-offs and provision expense, nonperforming assets also improved with NPAs down $360 million from the second quarter. Nonaccrual loans declined $1 billion while foreclosed assets increased $662 million driven by an increase in government insured foreclosed assets. The increase was primarily driven by enhancements to loan modification programs, slowing foreclosures in prior quarters.

Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $104 million from the second quarter and were down 30% from a year ago with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans. Our restaged consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from the second quarter and from a year ago.

Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increased to 9.54%, exceeding our target of 9% for the first time which includes a 100 basis point internal capital buffer. The growth in the Basel III ratio demonstrated our strong underlying earnings performance and a reduction in risk-weighted assets reflecting an improved Company credit profile and model refinements for commercial portfolios.

In addition after the Basel rules were finalized, we took a number of actions to reduce RWA. We disposed of an asset that had a punitive risk weighting and generated and evaluated more granular data on underlying investments of our BOLI assets.

We reduced our common share count by $28.4 million from the second quarter. We purchased 50.9 million shares and we executed a $400 million forward contract that is expected to settle in the fourth quarter for approximately 9.8 million shares. We are focused on returning more capital to our shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.

In summary, we had another solid quarter by focusing on our vision of meeting our customers' financial needs resulting in strong loan growth and deposit growth. We benefited from a continued improvement in credit quality with losses down significantly reflecting our conservative underwriting and an improvement in the economy especially the rebound in housing.

Our ROA and ROE continue to grow and we have strong capital generation which will benefit us as we enter the upcoming CCAR process.

We will now open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Erika Najarian, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA NAJARIAN, ANALYT, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. With the provision at $75 million this quarter and your efficiency ratio at 59%, to continue the record quarterly earnings growth for next quarter it seems like you have to move to the midpoint of your efficiency ratio. I guess the question really here is can you get to the midpoint of your efficiency ratio next quarter all through cutting mortgage expense?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Erika, I would push back a little bit on the math there because that just assumes that we only have one lever to pull and that is expenses. If you step back and look at the performance that we had this quarter, you saw broad-based growth across the Company. There is no question that the efficiency ratio deteriorated a little bit but that was just because of the immediate impact of the mortgage revenue decline.

Now our expectation for all of our businesses is that we are going to see growth over time. We believe that we are going to improve the expense efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter and we are hopeful that credit continues to improve, and as I mentioned, we believe that we can -- that we will have further loan-loss reserve releases.

So I don't think it is necessarily going to be one item that is going to impact our earnings next quarter and that has really been the case for the last 15 quarters. Every quarter is a little bit different and that is fine because we have got the diversity and the strength in our businesses to be able to grow regardless of what is thrown at us.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. So I guess the message there is we should expect efficiency improvement next quarter and you will get there through both -- on both sides of the denominator? Sorry both sides of the equation, denominator and numerator?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct. We expect our efficiency ratio to improve in the fourth quarter from the third-quarter results.

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, if you look at and as you do it the balance sheet, just think of the growth we had this quarter and the last number of quarters in loans. That is the first call on our liquidity. Secondly, we do have liquidity -- ample liquidity there. This past quarter we were able as we have in recent quarters to deal with liability costs. So there are lots of things going on here, and as Tim mentioned, the expense side is just an important side but it is not the only lever.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Got it. And my second question and I will step back is on capital return for next year. I think we hear you loud and clear that we should expect more capital return next year versus this year and my question is really on the CCAR process. Given sort of the fluidity on US leverage standards and global leverage standards which doesn't impact you as much as other large banks -- but.

I guess how do the regulators think of the buyback authorization that they approve relative to the fluidity of the new leverage rules? I guess the real question there is without the leverage proposals being final in the US or globally, will they allow banks to announce large authorizations on buybacks thinking that if something changes with the rules or the rules are just as stringent as proposed, you could dial back your actual buyback relative to your authorization?

JOHN STUMPF: Here is how we think about that. If you think about the CCAR process, we now have every year we do this, we learn more, we have more experience, rules that were proposed are becoming more known. Not everything is known today but this CCAR process we will know a lot more about final rules than we knew in the past. That doesn't mean everything that is known.

Secondly, we have made great progress, and Tim mentioned and I mentioned in our comments, that if you look at just one ratio but we don't look at only one, the Tier 1 common using Basel III rules as we understand them, we are over the 7% plus the 1% SIFI buffer gets us 8 (technical difficulty) plus self-imposed 1% to 9%. We are already 9.50 -- north of 9.50. And in our Company, the way you run it here is really about shareholder.

You saw the activity we had last year in returning capital to our stockholders. We purposely made a comment, both Tim and I did, about returning more to our shareholders and we are looking forward to this upcoming CCAR process. It is surely an iterative process. It is collaborative with the Federal Reserve. I don't want to get ahead of that process but I know you will appreciate how much we care about returning and we are in a great position to do that.

So let's see where it all ends up.

ERIKA NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN & COMPANY: Hi, good morning. Tim, I was wondering on the liquidity additions, Tim, was this in preparation for your expectation of what the rules will be on LCR or OLA or both? And do you anticipate doing more of this liquidity build in coming quarters or are you now positioned for your best read of what you expect on these rules?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, a very good question. I am glad you asked it. It had nothing to do with OLA. It was primarily focused on just liquidity. We have always operated the Company with sufficient liquidity to meet the needs of our customers and also weather the volatility in the markets and we have seen a lot of volatility over the last few years for sure.

But that said, there is no question that the regulatory expectations for the industry have increased. And we have been building liquidity throughout the year and I think the important thing is that throughout the year as well as in this quarter, it didn't affect our ability to serve customers, invest in securities when rates were higher, or as you have seen, report another quarter of record earnings.

But we did accelerate the liquidity build this quarter and we were able to do so in a way that was favorable because of the strong balance sheet that we have.

To your question about the standards, we don't know what domestic standard is going to be. Our expectation is that will be announced sometime toward the end of this year. But as it relates to the international standard, we have exceeded that. But again, we don't want to make a big deal about that because that is not really the standard that we are going to operate under. It is going to be the domestic standard.

But I wouldn't worry about our ability to have sufficient liquidity to meet the standards, to serve our customers, to continue to generate earnings.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And on the mortgage side, any sense for how much the mortgage originations could fall in the fourth quarter? And can we look at the decline in the end of the quarter pipeline as a guide to the possible magnitude from the decline from the $80 billion level or what is the danger of us doing that?

TIM SLOAN: Well, yes, well there is always danger in something, right, John? But I think that a big driver for mortgage origination volume is going to be where rates turn out. We have seen that in great form this last quarter. Assuming that we are going to stay in this current interest rate environment, our expectation is that the mortgage originations will be down. The reason that I didn't provide any more specific guidance is that we are early in the quarter.

Having said that, I wouldn't use the point to point reduction in pipeline as the primary driver for coming up with any sort of expectation about mortgage origination volume because what we are experiencing right now in terms of the business is that the closing times from origination to close on a mortgage are shortening up. That is the case for us as well as I am sure the entire industry.

So I wouldn't jump to that conclusion. Assume that they are going to be down but in terms of exactly how much, it would be premature to guess right now.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, John, I think the thing that we should all remember on the mortgage business is while refinance volume is down and it has an impact on us, the improvement in housing is really good for America, good for our customers and ultimately good for our Company. And we have been through these cycles before and affordability still remains very attractive. Household leverage has come down and the interest by Americans in home ownership is still there.

So this is just a great thing. People are feeling better and we will respond as volumes go up and down and so forth. We have done that in the past. But an improving housing market is good, it is good for everyone.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks, John. And one quick follow-up. Tim, if the current credit trends persist, is there any reason we couldn't see the reserve releases remain at the current level in this $900 million ballpark we saw this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: John, I would hesitate to provide you with a specific number because that is a process that we decide at the end of the quarter. I do think as we said that you should have an expectation that we will continue to have reserve releases because of the trends that we are seeing not only in terms of the continued improvement in our portfolio but because of the continued improvement in home prices.

So we will have a release in the fourth quarter. I don't know what it is going to be but you should count on us having a release.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning guys. You know excluding acquisitions on the end of period basis, it looked like core loan growth strengthened a bit in the quarter. How do you feel about demand through year-end and how much of these uncertainties around the government shutdown and the debt ceiling are affecting customer sentiment at this point?

TIM SLOAN: I would say it is a little bit too soon to gauge the impact as to what -- how consumers and our commercial customers are going to react to what is going on or not going on in Washington. But the trends that we saw in the fourth quarter -- or excuse me -- in the third quarter as you said, ex the acquisition, are continuing.

I don't know what the growth is going to be but I think what we were really excited about in the third quarter was how broad-based loan growth was. It wasn't just in one of our portfolios in wholesale, it wasn't just in WBR, it wasn't just in one of the consumer portfolios. So it is broad-based.

And this gets back to John's comments about the recovery again setting what is going on in Washington aside, we are in the midst of a recovery. It is a little bit uneven but because of our diversification, we are able to pick up wherever the low growth might be.

And again, I think it is really a testament to the scheme that we have out there dealing with customers every day because we are continuing to grow at a multiple of what the underlying industry is growing at.

JOE MORFORD: And you announced a couple of loan portfolio acquisitions in the quarter. Do you expect to see more of these opportunities in coming months and just how competitive are these situations given that industry loan growth overall is fairly sluggish?

TIM SLOAN: Well, you know what, Joe, you have got to pay the highest price to win. So we are always going to be competitive. But we have been very pleased over the last two years to have been in the position because of our financial condition, our liquidity, our capital position to be able to acquire a number of loan portfolios. We are hopeful that we will continue to see opportunities to make acquisitions of good quality loan portfolios in the future.

We certainly don't count on it and we don't assume that we need it to be able to grow earnings but the short answer is there is competition out there but the fact of the matter is that we are viewed as a good counterparty to sell to because we have got very experienced people that can provide good underwriting. We are able to transform that into competitive bids and when we say we are going to close, we close.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Tim is absolutely right on that and I think it is a competitive advantage we have for those reasons. But we also -- and you know this -- we don't do every deal we look at. We look at a number of things and transactions. If it doesn't add to our customer base, I mean these are not only loans, these are customers and we are doing more things with them besides just the loan.

And as you go through a number of these, it is logical that there will be fewer available but we still as I always say kick a lot of tires. But the ones we bring home are the ones that really add value to our customer base.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, that's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning.

TIM SLOAN: Hi Betsy.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Just a couple of questions on the mortgage expense side. I am wondering if you could just give us a sense of the amount of mortgage expense reduction you already have in your 3Q run rate? And roughly how far along you think you are in that reduction based on current volumes and when you think you get to your new run rate of expense there?

TIM SLOAN: Betsy, it's a real good question. The primary reduction in expenses in the third quarter from the mortgage business was really in the incentive compensation line which we mentioned. Most of the 5300 team members that were noticed in the third quarter were still with us as of the end of the quarter. So most of that expense, just the underlying personnel expense, was not out of the run rate. So you are going to see that come out of the run rate during the fourth quarter. And our expectation is that as we start the first quarter, it will be completely out of the run rate.

So not a lot of reduction with the exception of incentive comp in the third quarter metering through the fourth quarter and then out in the first quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: In fact, Tim is right; actually it is even -- we actually took a charge in the third quarter for severance so it actually went through the expense numbers. So you can almost argue that it was elevated by $63 million or so whatever. So Tim is right, the direct variable is out but the support costs actually in an unusual way, went up for a quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: And then on the MSR valuation with the backup in rates, I guess I was a little bit surprised not to see a higher upward revaluation. Maybe you could speak a little bit to how you got to your number?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. There is no question that we have had obviously a bit of a backup in rates but we did reduce the value of the MSR by about $240 million and the driver for that was the assumption that we have regarding prepayments during the quarter because of the increase in home values. And again, we try to appropriately hedge the portfolio so the impact was primarily driven by the change in the estimated -- estimate of prepayments.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. So the LTV is outweighing the rate impact still?

TIM SLOAN: So far that is correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just one last thing, you have your card partnership that you announced recently with American Express and I just wanted to understand how you are thinking about offering that product versus your other card products. I mean how do you determine which one you are going to be marketing to your different client bases?

And maybe if you could let us understand if there is a merchant angle to the AmEx partnership as well.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Betsy, that's an area of opportunity and focus for our Company. And just a little bit of history here, when we put Wells and Wachovia together in fact, we announced it almost five years ago to this date, they had of course sold their card portfolio to MBNA and when we put the two companies together, we had something like an 18% or 20% penetration to our customer base. Today it happens to be 35%, 36% and we are really growing that.

But we knew and understood there was a client base within our customer base who call us their bank, who carry a card but not our card and it tended to be in some cases a high-end card or it was a card that fit really nicely with what we are now partnering with American Express. And we all have a personal goal around here to satisfy all of our customers' needs and help them succeed financially and we are not satisfied here with a 35% or 36% penetration into our customer base on card.

Every one of our card customers, our customers has a card, more than one card. We want our card to be the top of the wallet and by expanding our partnership to American Express in some spaces, this is going to be hugely valuable in helping us do that. It's not like from the economics of the card, it is from the payments, knowing our customers better and so forth.

And you are right, we do a lot of things on the issuing side and this will help us there but we are also a big Company on the acquiring side, the merchant side. And we will be sharing more of that as time goes on but we are really excited about continuing to grow the penetration of our customers who carry our card.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Hey Matt.

TIM SLOAN: Hey Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: I was just hoping to drill down on the expenses a little bit. Obviously as we go forward there is the severance coming out, there is the capacity reduction in mortgage that has already taken place. I would assume some more to come as pressure comes down. But can you give us a sense of what the all-in run rate of expenses may be for the revenue environment that you see out there?

TIM SLOAN: No. We don't look at the expense number as a number and we are not going to be able to provide the guidance. I certainly appreciate why you asked the question. We really look at our performance based upon the efficiency rate. And we provided guidance a year and a half ago that we want to be in the 55% to 59% range. It deteriorated, as I mentioned this quarter because of the [immediate] impact of the mortgage revenue decline.

We are going to improve our efficiency in the fourth quarter and we are going to continue to look at our expenses based upon our efficiency ratio because it has got to be as a percentage of revenues.

Matt, it would not be difficult if we wanted to just cut expenses. The problem is when you look at your expenses just in terms of dollars and you just focus on a dollar reduction, you have the propensity and we have seen this with lots of companies over the years then give up revenues. And we are not going to do that.

This is a revenue-focused Company that has got to deliver expenses efficiently and we are going to continue to do that. So again, I appreciate the question but we are not going to provide any dollar guidance.

JOHN STUMPF: And just one added comment. We still believe and we mention this I think every quarter, that we have opportunities. We are spending more in some areas -- compliance, risk and so forth and on the other hand, we continue to innovate with our customers, with our delivery models. I mean our neighborhood store in Washington DC has an operating cost base that is 40% last than a traditional store and we are making investments at the ATM about taking paper out and all kinds of things.

But never at the expense of serving customers or at the expense of walking away from revenue. There is always a balance there. That is why we talk in terms of an efficiency ratio and we still feel comfortable with those guardrails.

MATT O'CONNOR: And obviously a lot of stuff has come up so far on the call. Just thinking out beyond the fourth quarter to next year, it seems like it is going to be a tough revenue environment for a lot of folks including you guys and even beyond mortgage cost save, it does feel like there is other opportunities. So I think over time to put some numbers around that might be helpful.

Just separately on the sale of MSRs over time, any sense or color that you can provide in terms of how meaningful those could be both in just an absolute sense and I guess from like a gain perspective?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I wouldn't look for us to start to sell MSRs just from a gain perspective. I think as we have talked about in the past, we do think it is prudent from a risk management standpoint to look at them as our portfolio and take advantage of the fact that there is more demand for mortgage servicing rights today than there was six months ago or a year ago. So don't be surprised if we do sell some of our MSRs.

I don't expect it to be a material reduction but I think from a risk management standpoint it is good to go ahead and test the waters every once in a while and you should expect that we will probably be doing that in the next few quarters.

JOHN STUMPF: And Matt, as far as going forward, you mentioned the next few quarters and what we are excited about here is if you look at first of all, you look at the absolute performance of the Company in a pretty difficult environment, north of 14% return on equity and an ROA north of 150. But if you look at the liquidity we have now on the balance sheet, almost $200 billion and the first call on that is for serving customers loans. You look at the opportunity we have in certain businesses like card and wealth brokerage, retirement, and insurance distribution in addition to all the existing businesses, our ability to grow loans, outgrow the industry you know there is also a lot of opportunity here.

Surely headwinds. We get that. But not foreign to us and that is why we like this as we many times talk about, the 85 to 90 horses that pull this coach along in being different businesses.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Thank you.

TIM SLOAN: Hi Marty.

MARTY MOSBY: Hey.

TIM SLOAN: Hey, Marty, thanks for being a Dodgers fan, by the way.

MARTY MOSBY: Oh, I appreciate that. You never know what you are going to get asked when you get out there. I have two technical mortgage questions and I had one general kind of balance sheet question.

On the gain on sale margin dropping from 220 down to around 140, the curiosity I had was because you recognize your gain on sale at closing or funding, a lot of times we have a spike in interest rates, you have a closed rate that actually increases pretty substantially and can create a loss. I didn't know if the acceleration of the drop in this gain on sale margin wasn't tied somewhat to that phenomenon which is pretty unusual and only happens when you have these real dramatic shifts in rates like we just went through.

TIM SLOAN: Marty, you raise a good point and you are going in the right direction but it wasn't because of any sort of a loss. I think very frequently when you are in a period of a decline in rate as you are referring to, you do get an acceleration in terms of the decline in rate of your margin. I would describe that as more of a competitive impact as well as sometimes a mix impact from whether your originations are coming from the retail or a correspondent business. So there was no question that because of the rapid increase in rate, there was a more rapid decline in the margin.

That said, our expectation given if you believe that interest rates have more or less stabilized right now and also given the competitive environment that we think that the margin is more or less going to stay in this range for the next quarter.

MARTY MOSBY: And just to kind of hit on that one last time was did you have any pull-through in the sense of when you are doing refis, you kind of think there is always going to be some breakage. Was there any increase in the closure rate as the rates went higher because the refi folks just want to go in and make sure they had that locked in rate?

TIM SLOAN: No, I wouldn't say that. I mean I do think when -- what we did see toward the end of the quarter once rates started to come down the last few weeks of the month, you did see an increase in volume on a daily basis just because there were folks that were hoping to have refinanced and then once they saw rates rise, they put the brakes on that. Then when they saw rates fall, they wanted to take advantage of it. But beyond that, nothing more.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay and then the other technical question on mortgage was when you are looking at the servicing hedging, you use swaps -- the majority of your hedging is in swaps and when the rates went up, you can really kind of restructure that swap portfolio before you can start to increase the positive carry. And I just didn't know if you had the chance to take advantage of that with that spike in rates that we got in the third quarter.

TIM SLOAN: Well, there is no question that with the volatility in rates we needed to watch our hedging very, very closely and there was more volatility in that this quarter. But we really -- but we didn't -- just because of where rates went this quarter, we didn't change the fundamental strategy in terms of how we hedge or the hedge ratios to try to speculate on where rates are going ago. We really want to look at that servicing business based upon the hedge carry and not try to either increase it or decrease it too much based upon where rates are going.

MARTY MOSBY: And all I was getting at is you can kind of keep the same hedge ratio while taking advantage of a wider steeper yield curve. Sometimes there is a benefit related to that so I was just curious if that is something that you were able to take advantage of when you had that opportunity?

TIM SLOAN: Not materially, no.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. And then lastly, John, you brought up the fact that your liquidity had increased so substantially -- I mean it is around $200 billion which is about twice what it was last year. So as much as you have tried to eat into that with purchases in the securities portfolio or loan growth, the deposit growth just keeps outpacing what you are able to do on the asset side.

What's your thoughts that as this number gets to be so substantial, how you take that and begin to utilize it given the opportunities that you have right now?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. Well I think that is one of the hidden strengths here in the Company in that the customers that are looking to borrow money, we think they have the first call on that. We surely will be thoughtful about making investments as we see backups. So there is a lot of what I would call dry powder there that is available and a lot of that is just because of what the deposit curve has been.

We have grown deposits over the last year by about $79.1 billion or $80 billion. And we brought even the cost of deposits down by 6 basis points down to 12 basis points. And I have said this I think in the past and you know this, that we are not turning away customers.

If a customer -- and we have been growing our primary checking accounts by 3.6 to 3.9 depending whether you are talking about small business or consumer -- they bring a lot of other stuff to us when they do this. And even though it might not look like a great trade today or tomorrow, it is a fabulous trade over time. I will take all the customer households with all the checking accounts and all the balances they want to bring here because it is going to pay huge dividends.

MARTY MOSBY: And just a slight follow-up to that is -- and this is a tough question -- how much of this $200 billion do you all estimate is related -- is sustainable through the cycle and not just temporarily parked on your balance sheet? And thanks for all the time this morning.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, I think when it comes to primary accounts, they are very sticky. And if you look at the makeup of the liability side of our balance sheet, of the $1.030 trillion, $1.040 trillion, only about $40 billion is CDs. I mean these are accounts that people -- they are transaction accounts, they are checking accounts, savings accounts and that is where people believe and if you ask where they bank, they will say I bank at Wells Fargo because that is where their basic and main account is. It is the driver of almost every sale on the retail side.

So very much the lion's share of that is core. If rates back up, will there be some disintermediation? Yes likely maybe even within the Company but probably a lot less than other companies or others that would have more one product households so-called hot money. That is just not who we are.

MARTY MOSBY: Understood. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Hi. How important is it to have consecutive quarters of increasingly higher EPS growth? And I will get back to my question in a second. I know it is probably the outcome of the way you run the business.

TIM SLOAN: Mike, that is exactly right. It is an outcome and we don't set about trying to hit a certain earnings number. What we do is we try to set about serving our customers' needs and earnings are just an outcome. The fact that we highlight it is it is something -- because we are proud of it. We have had 270,000 people working really, really hard for the last quarter in a pretty interesting environment where there have been a lot of headwinds. We have talked about some of them and we are very proud of the performance. We hope that continues. But it is an outcome not a goal.

MIKE MAYO: And I know I have asked the question on past conference calls. How do you mine the gap from the time when mortgage revenues decline and you don't yet have a chance to cut expenses? And it seems like the answer this quarter was partly reserve releases which equaled over 1/10 of your earnings for the quarter.

So I am trying to understand the offsets a little bit better and you have touched on a lot of them. What sort of expense or efficiency gains should you get from those 5300 employees leaving the mortgage business in the third quarter? Can you put any numbers on that?

TIM SLOAN: No. Mike, it is a very fair question and I think if you look back on any of the 15 quarters that you were referring to, every quarter is going to have a little bit different complexion. And I bet as we look back -- I don't that I know -- if you look back on every one of those quarters, there has been some sort of headwind that we have had to deal with.

And I think that whether we have been through in those quarters the ups and downs in the mortgage business, we have been through the ups and downs in credit, we have been through the ups and downs in operating losses and so on and so forth. And I think the important thing to appreciate again is that it is not just one driver that is going to get us to continue to be able if it is going to allow us to continue to be able to grow the Company.

You saw this quarter I mean the fundamentals are pretty exciting, $10 billion, $10.3 billion of point-to-point loan growth multiple of the industry average. You saw it year over year, nonmortgage fee revenue up 5%. Again, multiple of what the underlying economy is growing. You have seen deposits grow, as John was just talking about. We are not going to turn down deposits. We want to wave them in. Those are great relationships.

Expenses are down from the second quarter to the third quarter $150 million. And the improvement in credit is terrific. Sure we had a reserve release. The reserve release is the result of a lot of good decisions over a long period of time. So we are just -- everything that we have done this quarter is really core to banking. It is core to our performance so it is not just going to be one thing, it is going to be the combination of everything.

If it was just one item, we would point to it and we'd move on but that is what is exciting about Wells Fargo it's the diversity of the business model.

MIKE MAYO: If I can just have a follow-up one on revenues and one on expenses. As far as you increased securities by $10 billion during the quarter and you bought the commercial real estate portfolios for another $5 billion. When in the quarter did those go on roughly -- the beginning, the middle, the end?

TIM SLOAN: Most of the securities purchases were done toward the beginning to the middle of the quarter when rates were higher and then as rates dropped after the Fed announcement, we slowed down our purchases because we didn't think the rates were as attractive.

In terms of the loan purchases, my recollection is that the Eurohypo portfolio closed beginning to the middle of the quarter and then the ING portfolio is closing loan by loan from about the middle of the quarter to the end.

MIKE MAYO: All right. So there should be some NII pickup in the fourth quarter from those moves I would assume?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I don't know where NII is going to go but over time we certainly want to grow net interest income and we are hopeful to grow it in the fourth quarter and clearly having those two portfolios close will be beneficial to NII in the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: And then the follow-up on the efficiency side, I mean 59.1% is outside your range. I know it is just one quarter but that was the fear, you get the mortgage slowdown and the efficiency ratio doesn't look as good. And you made up for it with some other things. But what else can you do outside of mortgage? You mentioned the neighborhood stores. How many of those neighbor stores -- neighborhood stores do you plan to roll out over two or three years? What is the potential for that? Can you size that which I don't think you have done?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, good question, Mike. What we do is test and learn so we are testing that and learning. There are others on the docket but we also have an existing 6200 stores and if I would just take a step back from that, when we put the companies together five years ago, we had about 117 million or 118 million square feet. Today we are down to about 93 million or 94 million square feet. And we think we have more opportunity to go. That is a broad issue around the expenses around distribution. Not all that is distribution of course. That is the top of the house.

But within the 6200 banking store distribution, we are upgrading, creating more density. We are looking at every lease that comes up. So by not only the neighborhood store, which has a big cost advantage, and there will be more. We don't know how many yet but even with the existing 6200, we continue to look at those things.

So every expense that dollar we spend gets considered, it gets considered in and of itself and how it relates to revenue. But you are right, we are 59.1 but I think we also said that none of the benefits or very few of the benefits of the mortgage side, the revenue came out immediately and yet the expenses of the 5300 are not out yet. And plus on top of that, we added 63 million or 65 million to it for a severance reserve that actually made the expenses go up if you will.

So we still think those guardrails make sense. Surely we have touched the high end, but we will continue to work on that. And also, like we said each quarter has its own character. Sometimes revenue comes out right away, expenses trail a bit but we still feel comfortable with those numbers.

MIKE MAYO: And then lastly, the 94 million square feet, where could that go? Could it go to 80 million, 70 million?

JOHN STUMPF: It will go down. Again, we continue to challenge our thinking and some things that just to give you some ideas of things that we are thinking about. When we redo stores, we look at -- we look at density, we look at this whole idea in some cases of hoteling as technology becomes more available and more usable so -- and as our customer spend more time with self-serving. But the goal here is not to get square footage gone. The goal here is to serve customers in the exceedingly well way, have a great place for team members to come to work and if we can make all that work and have less square feet, then it is a win-win-win. Everybody wins here.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NIELL & PARTNERS: Good morning guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, Scott.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Good morning. I guess I just wanted to follow up on some of the credit related questions. I guess specifically I guess what was it this quarter in particular that allowed for such a dramatic reserve release? And I guess the reason I ask is I generally understand credit is continuing to improve but there have been other quarters where -- in other words, it has been improving for a while and some quarters has been more robust than this quarter even.

So I guess number one, what was it for this quarter in particular? And then I guess as I look back over really a decade or more, I think this is by far the lowest absolute level of credit cost you've had in any given quarter despite you being several times larger than at some points there. So is there any philosophical difference in the way you guys are thinking about the need to reserve or reserve releases, etc.?

TIM SLOAN: I'm glad you asked the question. No change in the philosophy in terms of how we are thinking about reserving. And you are right, $900 million is an increase over the prior quarter. It is not the largest reserve release we have had over the last few years but it is in the last year or so.

And I would say it wasn't any one item, it was just a buildup of a number of items. When you think about it, a year ago we had the OCC guidance that we had to adjust to and that clearly would have affected the amount of the reserve release. And then we had Hurricane or Superstorm Sandy and there was a concern about what losses might be and so we needed to make sure that we were adequately reserved.

And then throughout that same period, we have had a continuation of home price appreciation that I think has surprised everybody. It is amazing. It seems like every time one of the surveys come out that the conclusion is oh, it can never continue at that rate and then it has just continued. So those are just some examples of why the reserve releases have grown so far this year.

I can't promise you that they will continue to grow but we do feel very comfortable about the continued improvement in our credit quality.

And the other point that I would make is also it is important to appreciate that the complexion of our loan portfolio is changing. When you look at our commercial loan portfolio, almost half of the loans that are in that portfolio today were originated post crisis, so 2009 and forward. And somewhere -- and I don't have the number exact and I apologize -- but somewhere plus or minus 45% of the consumer loan portfolio was originated post crisis.

So we are seeing the impact of not only the improvement in credit quality of the precrisis portfolio, and John talked about how our consumers' and our customers' balance sheets are improving, also the housing price appreciation is impacting that. But it is also the fact that the new loan portfolio, the post crisis, the credit quality is just exceptional. So it is a combination of all of that. It is not just one item.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay, all right, I definitely appreciate the context around it. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Hey, John, Tim. You know I just wanted to ask you a little bit more on the revenue side. I get the context for NII. We know kind of what is happening on the mortgage front. So can you just flesh out a little bit -- I know you talked about that other areas of the business are in fact growing.

But can you give us a thought about are there any other areas of the fees where you see potential acceleration or increased growth potential to help fill in for the kind of flattish NII and down mortgage trends that we have been seeing of late?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. I mean I would just go back to looking at the year-over-year improvement on that noninterest income slide that we walked through. What you saw and I wouldn't conclude that any one of these items is going to grow any faster or slower than the others, but what you have seen is a growth in our retail deposit business in terms of fees. That is reflective of the fact that we have had a growth of primary checking account customers which is very exciting to see.

You see year-over-year growth in terms of our wealth, brokerage and retirement business on the fee side both in terms of the brokerage activity but maybe even as importantly if not more importantly in terms of the account-based fees are continuing to grow. Investment banking has been -- has continued to see good growth. Credit card has been growing and so on and so forth. I mean I am leaving some business out but the fact of the matter is it is very broad-based.

So I wouldn't point to any one specific item. As John talked about, we are very excited about credit card but that is not the only area of the Company that is growing. So I think it is going to be a number of the businesses that will help fill in any sort of gap over the next few quarters.

KEN USDIN: And I guess just within that, Tim though, I am just wondering if there are any businesses newer businesses that are kind of hitting their post investment cycle that you have been kind of ramping up but that could show a better growth rate? I get all your points that you made but I am just wondering if there is -- are the things that we haven't seen as much out of that we could see more out of that are just kind of hitting their right pace of their ramp?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the last time I checked, John's expectations of all of my colleagues is that he wants to see growth from all of them.

JOHN STUMPF: You bet. They all have opportunity to grow.

TIM SLOAN: So I wouldn't -- no one --

JOHN STUMPF: No one gets special treatment.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, no one is going to get any special treatment either positively or negatively. Again, there is nothing too new and exciting. It is all exciting.

KEN USDIN: Okay. And then last question just on loans again and this quarter you had the purchases but then there was a little bit core as well. I guess a broader question for you, John, there is the government stuff, there was Syria, there is the Fed, where do think customers are in terms of their desire to invest in the business especially on the commercial side?

Everyone has been talking about how lame H8 has been over the course of the last couple of months or so. What does it take to get to break through and what are your customers saying about their desires to take loans and take loans out and build their businesses?

JOHN STUMPF: There is I would say guarded optimism. Surely what happens in Washington is not helpful. I have said this for some time. I still think it is about confidence. Think of the great attributes and advantages this country has and we have talked about them before. The best rule of law even though government looks dysfunctional today, you know compared to a lot of other places, we wouldn't trade it. We have natural resources, we have an educated workforce. We have a strong financial services industry, the deepest, most transparent on the planet.

Housing is getting better. There are just so many advantages. That is why we are so bullish long-term. Clearly in the interim in the intermediate period as we go through budgets and at the national level, the federal level, and debt ceilings, that is not helpful. But I am always reminded of our larger shareholders' comments. You don't bet against the US and we have 97% of our revenues here and we couldn't be more excited about the long-term.

So I am optimistic. But recognize that we still have a ways to go.

KEN USDIN: Yes, okay, guys. Thanks very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. And I would like to just take this opportunity to thank all of you on the phone and thank our team members. This is now within a day or two the five-year anniversary of our announcement of our merger with Wachovia. Five years later we couldn't be more excited about the future. I thank all of the 270,000 some team members who come to work every day and make our brand promises come true.

So thank you for those of you on the phone and again thanks to all of our teammates. Have a great day and we will see you next quarter.

OPERATOR: Thank you. This concludes today's conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020131018e9ab0018h
  


 HD
 Q2  2013 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
15,299 words
   PD
12 July 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and CFO, Tim Sloan, will discuss second-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplements. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including the reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. Wells Fargo had a terrific quarter and has now generated 14 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth with record earnings in the second quarter. This consistent, strong performance during a dynamic economic and interest rate environment again demonstrates the benefit of our diversified business model.

We are not dependent on any one business to generate growth. We have over 90 businesses that are all focused on just one thing -- meeting our customers' financial needs. Our results this quarter demonstrate the momentum we have throughout all of our businesses.

Our strong performance is broad-based. Compared to a year ago, we earned a record $5.5 billion, up 19%, and grew earnings per share 20%. We grew pretax pre-provision profit by 3%. We reduced our expenses and improved our efficiency ratio by 90 basis points to 57.3%. Our core loan portfolio grew by $42.3 billion, up 6%.

Our credit performance was outstanding, benefiting from our conservative underwriting and improving economic conditions, especially in housing, with net charge-offs down to 58 basis points and our total net charge-offs down 48% from just a year ago. Our strong deposit franchise, which becomes even more valuable in a rising rate environment, continued to grow with total deposits up 10% from a year ago while we reduced total deposit costs by 5 basis points to 14 basis points.

We achieved record retail cross-sell of 6.14 products per household. Wholesale banking grew their cross-sell to 6.9 products and Wells brokerage retirement cross-sell increased to over 10 products, 10.35 to be exact.

We grew return on assets by 14 basis points to 1.55% and return equity increased by 116 basis points to 14.02%. Our capital levels continued to grow with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increasing to 8.54%, and based on our initial review of the leverage ratio proposal issued this week, we believe our current leverage levels would exceed the well-capitalized requirements at both the bank and the holding company.

Our strong earnings growth has enabled us to grow our capital levels while returning more capital to our shareholders. In the second quarter we increased our dividends to $0.30 a share, up 36% from a year ago, and we continued to buy back stock.

Before turning the call over to Tim, let me conclude with some comments about my views on how the current economic and rate environment impacts Wells Fargo. We continue to be optimistic about the improvements we are seeing throughout the economy. While commercial loan demand is still modest, jobs are being created, consumer confidence is increasing, and the housing market continued to demonstrate strong momentum.

In fact, in the second quarter, the housing market improvement was stronger and more broad based than it had been since before 2008. Sales were up and residential property prices increased by 13% across the country, yet affordability still remains attractive, even with the increased prices and higher interest rates. The strength in the housing market was a positive catalyst to our results in the second quarter in a number of ways including higher originations for home purchases, lower environmental costs, reduced purchase reserves, and improved credit quality.

Assuming the housing market remains strong, and we currently believe it will, our overall results should continue to reflect these benefits.

While the economy continues its slow but steady improvement, the current rate environment is obviously very different than it was just nine days ago when we last announced our earnings. We knew rates would eventually rise and we have been planning for a rising rate environment for some time. The benefit of our diversified business model is that it provides opportunities to generate earnings growth over a variety of rate environments.

Some of our businesses naturally do better in a lower rate environment and others benefit from rising rates. Tim will highlight the growth we have achieved across a number of our businesses on our call today.

We do not manage Wells Fargo based on a specific rate environment. We manage Wells Fargo, as we have for decades, to satisfy our customers' financial needs. Rates rising for the right reason, an improving economy, is beneficial for our customers, which then in turn benefits Wells Fargo.

Tim will now provide more details on our second-quarter results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement starting on page two. John and I will then take your questions.

As John mentioned, Wells Fargo had another outstanding quarter with record earnings of $5.5 billion, up 19% from a year ago and up 7% from the first quarter. Earnings per share grew to $0.98, up 20% from last year and up 7% from the first quarter. We have now achieved 14 consecutive quarters of EPS growth and nine consecutive quarters of record earnings per share.

As John just mentioned, the rate environment this quarter looked very different from last quarter. In fact, the economic housing and rate environment has differed significantly over the past 14 quarters of our earnings growth. While the drivers of our growth have varied, our consistent risk discipline and diversified business model have remained the same.

Our results this quarter compared to the first quarter clearly show the advantage of our diversity with our bottom-line results benefiting from strong broad based trends including net interest income growth as we grew loans and investment in securities, fee growth across a variety of our businesses, reduced expenses generating positive operating leverage, and improved credit and capital levels. As you can see on page three, our year-over-year results were also strong with growth in pretax pre-provision profit, net income, EPS, both total and core loans, core deposits, ROA, and ROE.

Our revenue diversification is highlighted on slide four; a 50/50 split between spread revenue and fee revenue from our diversified businesses and cross-sell activities. Trust and investment fees were once again our largest fee category and it has been for the past five quarters. We achieved positive momentum across many of our businesses, which I will highlight throughout the call.

Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our second-quarter results from a balance sheet and income statement perspective. On page five you can see we had good balance sheet growth this quarter growing loans, deposits, and securities. I will provide more detail on the securities we purchased later on the call. The decline in our provision expense this quarter reflected improvement in home prices and our overall credit performance.

Turning to the income statement on page six, mortgage revenue was stable in the quarter and revenue growth was driven by stronger trusts and investment fees and higher net interest income. Our expenses declined, as we expected, primarily reflecting seasonally lower employee benefit costs. Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.

As shown on page seven, we continue to have solid loan growth with period-end loans up $26.8 billion, or 3%, from a year ago and up $2 billion from the first quarter. Loans grew even after the continued run-off of our liquidated portfolio. This portfolio has declined by over 50% since 2008 and the headwinds to overall loan growth caused by this run-off has continued to slow.

In the second quarter, the liquidating portfolio declined $15.5 billion from a year ago and $3.2 billion from the first quarter. Excluding these liquidating loans, our core loan portfolio grew by $42.3 billion, or 6%, from a year ago and was up $5.2 billion from the first quarter.

Commercial loans grew $1.8 billion in the quarter with broad-based growth in C&I and foreign loans. Consumer loans grew $250 million with growth in nonperforming first mortgage loans, auto, and credit card, partially offset by the expected run-off from the liquidating and core home equity portfolios.

Deposit growth remains strong with period-end deposits up $10.9 billion from the first quarter. Average deposits were up $23.6 billion from the first quarter and up $85.8 billion, or 9%, from a year ago. Average core checking and savings deposits were up 8% from a year ago.

We grew our primary consumer checking customers by a net 3.5% from a year ago, up 2.1% from last quarter. These are active checking account customers who transact with Wells Fargo regularly. The growth we have achieved with these relationship-based customers demonstrate the strength of our deposit franchise and should generate future growth as we focus on remaining their primary bank and meeting more of their financial needs.

We continue to lower our deposit costs with average deposit costs of 14 basis points in the second quarter, down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 5 basis points from a year ago. We've successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit cost for 10 consecutive quarters.

As shown on page nine, we grew taxed equivalent net interest income by 3% from the first quarter. The growth in NII was driven by securities purchases, lower funding costs, loan growth, higher variable income, as well as the benefit from an extra day in the quarter.

Average earning assets grew $31.1 billion from the first quarter, reflecting increases in short-term investments, loans, and AFS securities. We purchased $21 billion of AFS securities during the second quarter, primarily agency MBS, and we purchased an additional $6 billion of securities in the first two weeks of the third quarter.

We remain disciplined during periods of lower rates and we were prepared to deploy liquidity as rates rose. We benefited from this disciplined approach in the second quarter by investing in higher yielding securities.

While higher rates driven by an improving economy will be positive to our results over the long-term, including higher-yielding earning asset growth and improving credit quality, there are also some short-term effects such as lower mortgage refi volume and reduced OCI that I will highlight throughout the call. Higher rates impact our businesses in different ways and at different times, which reinforces the benefit of our diversified model.

Our net interest margin declined by 2 basis points from the first quarter to 3.46%. This decline was driven by three primary factors. First, our continued deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase, reducing the margin by 6 basis points.

As I have highlighted in the past, our deposit growth has little impact on net interest income but it is dilutive to the net interest margin. Offsetting this declined by 2 basis points was higher variable income, including higher PCI loan resolutions and periodic dividends. This variable income is obviously lumpy and it can increase or decrease in any quarter.

Finally, the net impact of repricing and balance sheet growth improved the margin by 2 basis points, largely due to the benefit of the growth in the AFS portfolio and reduced funding costs. While margin was relatively stable this quarter, it is still reasonable to expect continued net interest margin pressure.

Despite a decline in total fee income in the quarter, many of our businesses demonstrated strong momentum, including deposit service charges up $34 million from the first quarter, benefiting from seasonality and account growth; trust and investment fees up $292 million on strong investment banking fees and higher retail brokerage asset-based fees; card fees grew $75 million on credit and debit card account growth and higher purchase volume; commercial real estate brokerage commissions grew $28 million with strong activity from both private and public deals.

Overall, noninterest income was down slightly from the first quarter on lower gains from deferred compensation plan investment income, which is P&L-neutral, weaker customer accommodation trading, and lower fees including a lower gain on sale of the PCI loans.

Our mortgage business continued to generate strong results in the second quarter with revenue up modestly from the first quarter, as highlight on page 11. Mortgage originations were $112 billion, our seventh consecutive quarter of more than $100 billion in originations, reflecting the benefit of the housing market improvement and low interest rates.

As rates rose late in the quarter, applications for home purchases remained strong but refi application volumes declined as expected. We still had a relatively large unclosed pipeline at the end of the quarter, but refi volume is obviously very sensitive to rates. Refis were 56% of originations in the second quarter, down from 69% in the first quarter.

We've managed through many refi cycles in the past and we will adjust the size of our business based on production volumes through this cycle.

Gain on sale margins declined from 2.21%, and with the increase in mortgage rates, we would expect further declines in our margins and origination fees.

Expenses declined from seasonally high first-quarter levels as shown on page 12. This decline was driven by a 4% reduction in personnel expenses reflecting lower employee benefit expenses due to the first quarter seasonally high payroll taxes and 401(k) matching. These declines were partially offset by higher salaries reflecting annual merit increases and higher revenue-based incentive compensation expense from strong results in capital markets, WBR, and mortgage.

We also had increases in other expense categories, primarily driven by our continued investment in our business to drive future growth, including project spending for product improvement and system enhancements, higher advertising and promotion expense driven by seasonality and a new campaign launched in the second quarter.

Operating losses increased $131 million in the second quarter, primarily from litigation accruals related to various legal matters. And we also experienced increased costs associated with regulatory and compliance requirements.

Our focus on reducing expenses while investing in our businesses to generate revenue growth is reflected in our efficiency ratio declining to 57.3% in the second quarter. We expect our efficiency ratio to remain within our target range of 55% to 59%.

As John mentioned at the start of the call, the recovery in the housing market is driving significant improvement in a number of areas, including some of our environmentally-elevated costs. As highlighted on page 13, in the second quarter most of these costs were significantly below what they had been over the past few years. We had a nominal amount of costs associated with the independent foreclosure review this quarter from customer call volumes following the distribution of remediation checks.

The improvement in real estate values helped reduce foreclosed asset expenses by $49 million compared to the first quarter and by $143 million from a year ago. Mortgage revenue this quarter was reduced by $25 million for additions to our repurchase reserve not related to current originations, which is the lowest build we have had since prior to 2008. Outstanding repurchase demands were relatively stable compared with the first quarter and new demands emerged consistent with our expectations.

However, not all elevated costs are behind us. Mortgage revenue is reduced by $82 million to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure costs as foreclosure timelines continue to extend, especially in judicial foreclosure states.

Turning to our segment results starting on page 14, Community Banking earned $3.2 billion in the second quarter, up 28% from a year ago and up 11% from the first quarter. Retail banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.14 products per household, up from 6 products a year ago. To support sales and household growth, we grew platform banker FTE by approximately 1,900 from a year ago.

Our credit card business continued to have strong account growth with a record 594,000 new accounts in the second quarter, up 16% from a year ago. Our household penetration increased to 35%, up from 31% a year ago. Credit card balances were up 3% from the first quarter and up 9% from a year ago due to strong transaction volume and account growth.

We also had momentum in our auto business with record originations in the second quarter of $7.1 billion, up 4% from the first quarter and up 9% from a year ago. Our continued focus on serving our small business customers generated a 2.7% growth in business checking accounts from a year ago. And we extended $9.3 billion of new loan commitments to small business customers during the first half of the year, up 25% from a year ago.

Wholesale Banking earned $2 billion in the second quarter, up 7% from a year ago and down $41 million in the first quarter. Wholesale Banking generated record revenue of $6.1 billion.

Investment banking fee growth was strong, driven by higher equity underwriting, credit originations, and loan syndication fees. Investment banking results included a 34% increasing in year-to-date revenue from commercial and corporate customers. This relationship focus also benefited treasury management as revenue grew 12% from a year ago, benefiting from better penetration of our existing customers.

Wholesale Banking's cross-sell reached 6.9 products per relationship, up from 6.8 a year ago. Wholesale Banking results continued to benefit from steady loan growth with loans having grown for 11 consecutive quarters. Average loans increased 6% from a year ago with growth in nearly all portfolios, including asset-backed finance, capital finance, commercial banking, commercial real estate, corporate banking, and government and institutional banking. Credit quality remains strong with net recoveries in the second quarter reflecting the improvement in our economy and our risk and underwriting discipline.

Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement earned a record $434 million, up 27% from a year ago and up 29% from the first quarter, reflecting the success of our core business strategy of growing asset-based relationships and the benefit from the improvement in the markets. Revenue grew 10% from a year ago, reflecting strong growth in asset-based fees and higher brokerage transaction revenue.

Retail brokerage managed account assets reached a record $331 billion, up 19% from a year ago, driven by strong net flows and market performance. WBR had strong loan growth with average loans up 4% from the first quarter, driven by nonconforming mortgages. WBR continue to effectively partner with retail banking to meet the financial needs of our customers, increasing the cross-sell to 10.3 products per household.

Assets referred from Community Banking to WBR grew over 25% from a year ago based on first-quarter results. This partnership is a great example of how our businesses work together to meet the financial needs of our customers.

Turning to credit quality on page 17, we have continued improvement across our commercial and consumer portfolios. Second-quarter net charge-offs declined to 58 basis points of average loans. Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $44 million, or 5 basis points of average loans. Consumer losses declined to 101 basis points.

We have had especially strong improvement in our commercial and residential real estate portfolios. These portfolios are now providing a tailwind for our credit performance compared to the headwind they provided when the real estate market was weaker. Reflecting these improvements, our provision expense declined $567 million from the first quarter and included a $500 million reserve releases compared with the release of $200 million in the first quarter and $400 million from a year ago.

We continue to expect future reserve releases absent a significant deterioration in the economic environment, and while we don't know what our release will be in the third quarter, the favorable conditions that drove this release this quarter have not dissipated.

The recovery in the housing market also benefited our expected losses in the PCI portfolio. This quarter the accretable yield balance increased by a net $2.1 billion, which included a $1.6 billion increase in expected cash flows and an $876 million reclassification, primarily from our pick-or-pay portfolio. This request did not impact second-quarter results, but will be accreted into income over the remaining life of these loans.

In addition to lower charge-offs and provision expense, nonperforming assets also improved with NPAs down $1.8 billion from the first quarter and down $3.8 billion, or 15%, from a year ago. Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $206 million from the first quarter and were down 15% from a year ago with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans. Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from the first quarter and from a year ago.

Earnings are the primary driver of capital growth for Wells Fargo. As shown on page 19, our Tier 1 common equity ratio grew to 10.73%, up 34 basis points from the last quarter. Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III, which reflects our interpretation of the Basel III capital rules adopted July 2, increased to 8.54% in the second quarter.

OCI negatively impacted the ratio by 24 basis points in the quarter due to the increase in interest rates. Because of our strong earnings growth, we grew capital even with the impact from the increase in rates. We expect reductions to unrealized securities gains when rates rise and this is one reason why, as we discussed over a year ago, we are targeting a capital buffer of approximately 100 basis points.

Just this week, as John mentioned, US regulatory agencies issued a supplemental leverage ratio proposal. Based on our initial review, we believe our current levels -- leverage levels will exceed the well-capitalized requirements in both the bank and the holding company.

We increased our second-quarter dividend to $0.30 per share, or 20% increase over the first quarter dividend, and purchased 26.7 million shares in the second quarter and executed a $500 million forward contract that is expected to settle in the third quarter for approximately 13 million shares. Including the shares under the forward contract, our share count would have been relatively flat for the quarter, offsetting 40 million shares issued during the quarter, primarily related to profit sharing and match contributions to the 401(k) plans and team members exercising option.

We have many opportunities to generate growth at Wells Fargo. On slide 20, we summarized the demonstrated momentum we have throughout our businesses that I have highlighted on the call. In each of our businesses we have opportunities for growth, reflecting the expanding needs of our customers. This customer, account, and balance growth, along with increased cross-sell, will help drive our future results and reflects the benefit of our diversified model.

In summary, we had a very good quarter with strong broad-based improvement and demonstrated momentum across many of our businesses. This included growth in loans, deposits, net interest income, and fee growth across many of our businesses. We reduced expenses and benefited from a continued improvement in credit quality that reflected our conservative underwriting and the strengthening economy, especially the rebound in housing.

Our ROA and ROE continue to grow and we grew capital levels while returning more capital to shareholders. We will now open up the call for your questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Tim, question on liquidity. Could you tell us where you are on the liquidity coverage ratio relative to your understanding of what will be required of you in the new regulatory rules?

TIM SLOAN: John, it's a good question. One of the challenges is that the rules haven't been finalized, and similar to the Basel III capital rules, from the point at which they were originally proposed to where they were finalized there was a fair amount of discussion and change. I would tell you that we have adequate capital to operate Wells Fargo.

Having said that, we are going to continue to work with regulators in terms of those interpretations. There may be some incremental amount of liquidity that we need to raise, but it's certainly something that we are focused on because liquidity risk is a key risk for the Company. But given the over $1 trillion of deposits we have and given the experience we have in terms of operating in different environments, again we think we've got adequate liquidity. We may need to raise a little bit more, but it should be material for the Company.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, so it's a factor. And as you think about the pace at which you deploy your cash -- you mentioned buying some securities here today -- is that a factor in how you think about deploying your liquidity?

TIM SLOAN: No, it's not a big factor at all, John. Again, to me it's much more important to think about the liquidity needs for operating the business as it relates to how much we want to invest in securities, because the first call for any of our liquidity has always got to be to our customers in terms of loan demand. But it's not a primary driver in terms of the pace of activity. The primary driver in terms of the pace of our investment activity has been that over the last year we have been in this very low-rate environment.

Turn the clock back a year ago; we had a lot of excess liquidity. There was a lot of concern that we were going to be low rates for awhile and there was this view that we weren't investing fast enough. We wanted to stay disciplined, that was the primary driver. Just like today one of the primary drivers for why we are investing more in our securities portfolio is because we think, given the rate backup, that returns are much more attractive.

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes, we did see a benefit there in the degree of net interest margin compression, but you still have an expectation for some continued margin compression. What are the drivers there, Tim? Then in terms of NII dollars, do you still expect to grow the NII dollars from the current level?

TIM SLOAN: So on the net interest margin I don't think the drivers have really changed that much. As you recall, if you look at our net interest margin decline, which we have had one over the last 14 quarters, the primary driver for the decline has been the fact that we have been growing deposits, which long-term (technical difficulty) for the Company.

Within a quarter we can have some variability based upon the variable income, which was positive this quarter but last quarter it was negative. The balance sheet continues to reprice a bit. So the factors really haven't changed because we haven't gotten to a point that the balance sheet has completely repriced.

So we could continue to see some continued compression in the net interest margin. The underlying factors really haven't changed.

In terms of net interest income, our goal is to grow net interest income over time. What happens on a quarter-by-quarter basis I just don't know for sure because there are a lot of factors. We had a lot of positive factors that drove our net interest income this quarter, which I think was absolutely terrific.

Again, I don't know if that means we are going to grow net interest income in the third quarter, but over time I believe that we can grow net interest income. And this quarter I think we've demonstrated our ability to do that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And switching gears over to the mortgage revenues, did the gain-on-sale margin of the 2.21% you mentioned hold up better than expected? What were the factors there? Is there any framing you can do for us of how much pressure that margin could experience as you move through the next couple quarters?

TIM SLOAN: John, I think that's a very fair observation and, candidly, I think the mortgage gain-on-sale margin has held up better, not just for the last quarter but for the last year, than I think anybody in the business or in the industry would have expected. That said, it has come down and it came down over 30 basis points in the quarter. Our best guess is that we are seeing pressure in the gain-on-sale margin and the gain-on-sale margin is going to decline.

Recall that last quarter we framed the gain-on-sale margin variability over the last few years at a -- if you annualize it, at the low end was 1.60% and the high end, again on annualized basis, was to 2.20%. We have been at the high end. We think we are going to start to move down from there.

So I think there is going to be pressure. I do not believe you are going to see a 2.21% gain on sale margin. I think it's more likely to be lower.

But, again, it's really a function of the competitive environment, which we think has been very rational as we have gone through this cycle, as well as the rate environment. Recall that our best guess in the second quarter was that origination was going to be a little bit lower than the first quarter, but in fact originations were up in the second quarter because rates stay low for a longer period of time. Rates are now up and that's going to affect originations for sure.

So there's a lot of variability, but to put it very bluntly, we think that the gain-on-sale margin is going to decline and it will decline somewhere in the range of what we've seen over the last few years. But it is going to decline.

JOHN STUMPF: John, as you know, and Tim is absolutely right, it will decline and margins will be under some pressure, but we have this wonderfully balanced business within the business. In other words, when rates increase -- if refis drop, margins come in because there's more competition. But then you have a servicing portfolio, and that does better.

So there's balance within this business, not only -- and there's also, of course, balance in the broad distribution and diversity within the Company. So some businesses do better, some do not as well when rates rise.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks, John. Tim, one follow-up on that. Could you remind us of the mechanics by which the higher servicing income can work its way through the income statement?

It didn't seem like we saw any of that start this quarter with the big move in the 10-year. What will trigger the kind of offsetting balance on the servicing side where the income there we will see that start to rise?

TIM SLOAN: John points out over time I think that there is some balance in the business on the revenue side, because of the fact that servicing income tends to be a little bit less volatile. We should see some benefit in terms of servicing income increasing as the housing industry continues to improve.

As we pointed out, we did reduce the value of this servicing for some elongation of some foreclosure timeline. Over time that will dissipate and then we will continue to get the carry and the underlying servicing income.

Our hedge ratio is pretty high, so it's not like we are betting the farm on or the stagecoach on an increase in rates in the servicing portfolio. We will see some benefit there, but I think it's also really important to remember that there will also be some expense trade-offs in the mortgage business itself. If it turns out that originations are down, then it's -- immediately in the quarter you get a benefit from the revenue-based compensation, the commissions coming down.

And then, to the extent that that volume continues, then you also make adjustments that tend to be on a lag basis, on a quarterly basis in terms of some of your other expenses.

JOHN MCDONALD: Are you starting to make those adjustments based on what you are seeing in the pipeline and the outlook given rates?

TIM SLOAN: John, we are making adjustments all the time. The fact of the matter is we entered the quarter with actually a pretty strong pipeline of $63 billion, which was only down 10%, 15% from the end of the quarter. But there's no question that, to the extent that we continue to see a decline in the pipeline, that we will make adjustments. And so you can assume that we will begin to make some of those adjustments this quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of America.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. My first question is a follow-up to John's last. We heard another mega-bank today say that if loan rates stay where they are that the mortgage market could shrink 30% or 40% in the second half of the year. Do you agree with that statement for your company, given what you are seeing in purchase trends?

Additionally, could you quantify, if that number is correct, how much of the expenses can come up proportionate to that 30% to 40% decline?

TIM SLOAN: It's a fair question. I don't think anybody really knows what the volumes in the mortgage business are going to be. I think one of the challenges for anybody in making that estimate today is that the complexion of originations is really changing.

When you look at the percentage of refi volume versus purchased money volume that we had in the first quarter of this year, for example, it was about one-third purchase money and about two-thirds refi volume. As the housing industry continues to improve, and as we went into the spring selling season, you saw that mix shift and so it was more like 55%/44% or 45% or whatever. And what that means is that a larger portion of your originations are coming from the purchase portion of the business.

So I think it is a fact that refinance volume is certainly very much impacted by rates, but also we have seen now rates at the long end start to come down 10 basis points just in the last few days. And so we don't think -- we don't know for sure where volume is going to be. We believe it's going to be lower in this quarter.

One of the things that we've learned in the mortgage business is it's probably not a good thing to think six months out or nine months out, because there could be so much variability. We think volume is going to be down, but whether it's going to be 30% or 40% I just don't know.

As it relates to expenses, again, the timeline generally is that the revenue-based compensation declines immediately and then, to the extent that you have continued origination reduction, then you start to reduce some of your expenses. That tends to occur on a lag-quarter basis, but at the end of the day we still believe that we can continue to have good margins in the business and to keep the efficiency ratio about where it is.

Because also, remember that one of the important things that's going on in the business is you've got an improvement in the underlying housing industry so that your environmental-related costs, hopefully, will come down, including foreclosures, at the same time.

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, one other thing that I know that we should not forget, not only have we been through this many times but we have 6,200 stores, 30,000 or 40,000 personal bankers that refer business in. So when rates rise and it's more of a purchase money business, we have all folks on deck helping serve customers.

And we still have tons of our customers who are interested in buying homes and moving and so forth who are our customers but do their mortgage business other places. So we have still lots of opportunity to capture purchase money business, which is still not at the levels it was pre-crisis. So there's lots of activity going on there.

Surely, the refinance volume is going to come down significantly if rates continue to stay high, but as Tim mentioned, I don't know what rates will be. 90 days ago we wouldn't have talked about what we're talking about today. Things change very quickly in this business.

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, let me just reinforce again, as you think about the third quarter and you think about the volume that we've seen over the last couple of years, we've been very fortunate to see quarters in which volume has been above $100 billion. We just don't think that we are going to see $100 billion of mortgage volume, given the current rates today, in the third quarter.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Speaking of how Wells benefits as housing recovers, I know that you are frustrated by the obsession on your margin. But as I think about slide 26 in your deck, it seems like you have $876 million of reclassification to accretable yield and $1.6 billion of additional expected cash flows that could be helpful to your margin over time.

Should we think of the pick-a-pay portfolio similar to how we think about reserve relief for the entire company in that, as housing gets better, you could release some of the marks into net interest income, which would benefit or alleviate some of the concerns on margin?

TIM SLOAN: There's no question that the key drivers for the improvement in the or the reclassification for housing prices as well as the underlying credit performance within that portfolio. And those are very similar to the drivers for the improvement that we've seen in our first mortgage portfolio and our home equity portfolios.

In terms of the impact, I would love to tell you that when you request the $876 million we get an immediate impact. That's not the way it works. It's occurs over the life of the loan.

There will be some positive impact, and you have seen that. And I'm hopeful, if the current trends continue, that this isn't the last time that we see a reclassification. I can't promise you that's going to be the case, but it will provide some positive benefit over time. But, again, we've got make sure that we put it in the right context because our best estimate is the weighted life of that portfolio is still about 14 years.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay, got it. Just if I could sneak one more in, just a clarification follow-up to John's question on the LCR.

Cash balances keep growing but in other calls you've mentioned that you have something like $50 billion of excess cash. Is that true still, relative to how we should think about Basel III LCR compliance? And I guess if the main message is potentially the cash balance will continue to build from here?

TIM SLOAN: I think that the challenge we all have, including where we are in terms of the liquidity coverage ratio, is the rules haven't been finalized. If you would tell me what the final rules are, then I can tell you whether or not we have too much or not enough or the right or whatever.

What I do know is that we believe that we have additional ability based on how we are running Wells Fargo, based on our interpretations of LCR to invest some of our liquidity in securities. But, more importantly, we have it ready for our customers when they want to borrow money.

That doesn't mean that we may not raise liquidity if -- when some of the rules are finalized. But we don't believe -- and we believe that that is impossible to do without a significant impact or a material impact in terms of running the Company. But, again, I think it would be premature to conclude what the final rules look like because they haven't been finalized.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Hopefully, just a couple of quick ones here.

You mentioned the trust investment fees. Good strength in both the brokerage and investment banking, which of course you now split out. On the broker side, is that just the higher market levels or are you seeing some inflows there as well? I did notice the deposits in that segment were down a couple of billion, so I'm just wondering if there's some flows coming into the brokerage area.

TIM SLOAN: I think it's all of the above, Matt. There's no question that we have been benefited, as everybody in the industry has been benefited, by the improving markets -- the improving equity markets and the fact that retail investors want to be part of that business.

We did see some movement from deposits to investing in the market. We think that's a good thing. We've been waiting for that for a while, but we also grew our customer levels too.

JOHN STUMPF: Matt, the other thing, is this is a big emphasis for the Company. David Carroll and his great team are working with Carrie Toldstedt and her team and Dave Hoyt and within the Company -- this is that One Wells Fargo working together. So not only the markets help us, we are also putting a big emphasis on this. I think this is a big growth opportunity for this company.

MATT O'CONNOR: Then, just separately, on the mortgage servicing rights, I know you've talked about potentially testing the waters to sell. And sorry if I missed it, but did you sell any this quarter and thoughts going forward in terms of potentially selling them? I would think they are worth a little bit more now that a few months ago.

TIM SLOAN: We hope that's the case, Matt. I think that, as you know, we entered into a transaction to sell our -- a portion of our reverse mortgage portfolio in the first quarter. We didn't have any sales of MSRs this quarter, but we will continue to look at selling MSRs. We think that that's prudent risk management. The primary driver for doing that is not because we feel like there's pressure as it relates to capital, but I wouldn't be surprised if we move forward and executed a sale of MSRs this quarter or next.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, that's it for me. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: Good morning. John, I guess I was just hoping you could expand kind of generally on the comments you made in your prepped remarks early on about the housing market. I guess what I am thinking about is high rates impact affordability, but you certainly seem pretty optimistic about the prospects for the housing market and continued improvement. So what trends are you seeing generally? Particularly I guess most recently, just since you guys see so much of the mortgage and consequently the housing market, that makes you keep this sustained optimism?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. So, first of all, I think I have mentioned before that we look at 400 or so MSAs, metropolitan statistical areas, and we have a unique and pretty grounded way of seeing real estate across the country. The view is it's better everywhere. It has been better everywhere for going on, in some cases, two years, surely in the past year.

And it has been stronger in some places than even probably we had expected. Some of the states that were hardest hit -- Nevada, Florida, Arizona, California -- are showing huge or very large price appreciation kinds of numbers.

Also, if you look at -- and, yes, rates have gone up. But, if you were in the mortgage market before 2000, you know that these are unbelievably good rates. My first mortgage was at 8.5%, my second one was at 11.5%, and I thought those were great rates at those times.

So affordability still is there. Household formation has continued to happen the last four or five years where people weren't buying, so there's a lot of pent-up demand.

The three important issues to a home purchase -- what you make, what the house costs, and what the financing costs -- one of those is still at close to 40-, 50-year record lows. Compared to rental, owning a home is -- makes economic sense. Sure, it depends on where you want to live and how long you want to live there and so forth. So there is just strength there and it improves customer confidence.

The thing I hear most about when I'm out in the marketplace is the lack of inventory. So we are expecting that prices will continue to improve, probably not at the level they have in the past, but housing sure has strength to it.

So I don't know what's going to happen to rates over time, but when housing improves it's good for Americans, it's good for confidence, which in turn is good for financial services industry and Wells Fargo.

SCOTT SIEFERS: All right, I appreciate the color there. Then I guess, Tim, sort of along the same lines, your consumer credit improvement -- I guess we kind of knew it would improve, but I think the magnitude was probably a little better than I would have anticipated.

If we kind of just -- if we were to say stay at this sort of level of housing, is there a point where you'd need continued improvement to impact the sustainability of such strong consumer trends, or are we there yet? How are you thinking about that dynamic?

TIM SLOAN: I think it's a fair question, Scott. The underlying trends and factors the John has alluded to are still improving and so it's hard to imagine improvement not continuing. Whether it continues to improve at the same rate, I don't know. I think we have continued to be surprised by how housing has positively impacted our results.

I think it's also important to remember that particularly when you think about the reserve release that there were some overriding factors that impacted the reserve release over the last few quarters, including the fact that we had the OCC guidance that impacted the third and fourth quarter of last year and also the potential for the impact from the damage of Hurricane Sandy that has been working its way through the system.

But again, I think the fundamentals for housing are strong. We have a large first-mortgage and second-mortgage portfolio that tends to be the portfolio where we have a disproportionate share of our losses, even though they improved -- the consumer losses improved to just a touch over 1% this quarter. So we are feeling pretty good about the improvement.

JOHN STUMPF: Scott, if I could just add one more thing, housing is uniquely different than any other consumer asset class. When housing improves, people feel better. I mean two-thirds of Americans or so own a home. When housing improves, it improves confidence. People spend more. The multiplier effect on buying washers and dryers and other consumer goods, it's just very special around housing. So when housing gets better, it really lifts all boats on the consumer side.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Well, guys, I definitely appreciate the help. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks. Good morning, guys. First question, Tim, that other income line that you talk about, the equity method and less PCI loan sales gains, that line was in $450 million to $500 million for last several years. Is there anything in particular that happened this quarter, and is there anything that would prevent it from kind of going back to that more normal run rate?

TIM SLOAN: Good question. It's really not what happened; it's what didn't happen this quarter. The comparison to the first quarter and the primary drivers for the decline were we had an equity investment that we accounted for under the equity method, and as you know, when those appreciate in value, as opposed to the cost method, you have to go ahead and write off the value, which we did in the first quarter.

Just so you know, we actually sold that equity investment so we got the cash in the second quarter.

Then, secondarily, we had a $151 million gain which we had called out in the first quarter, from the sale of some PCI loans that -- again were in the first quarter that we just didn't have in the second quarter. So I think it's more of what was missing in the second quarter than what was -- what occurred. So I don't know what's going to happen in the third quarter, but I think if you look over a long period of time the income from that line item being as low as it has been is not typical.

KEN USDIN: Right, okay. Then, secondly, the share count again was up, and you guys have talked about that we might be getting towards the point where we finally start to see it reduce. And I'm just wondering are we at that point and what needs to happen just with the math to finally start getting the share count down.

TIM SLOAN: Well, we were almost at that point this quarter. That's one of the reasons why I called out the fact that the timing of the settlement from structured sale, had that occurred in the second quarter and it's going to occur relatively early in the third quarter, we would have been about flat, notwithstanding the second quarter tends to be a quarter in which there's more share issuance as we called out. I don't know exactly what's going to happen, but my guess is that we are very close to the point at which we will start to see share reductions.

KEN USDIN: Okay. Then just on the mortgage business, the pipeline was down but you guys have mentioned last quarter that your closing times had gone down from 90 to 60. I'm just wondering just how much of a market share opportunity is this, because it doesn't sound like you've really cut capacity yet?

So could you just walk us through originations versus pipeline and how much more you're actually just pumping through the channel regardless of what's happening with the overall origination volumes in the marketplace?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, one of the reasons why we haven't made a lot of changes in terms of underlying business is that the increase in the rates only happened a few weeks ago and we had a large pipeline that we were working through. As you saw, originations in the second quarter were a lot stronger than I think anyone would have imagined. So I think that's going to naturally begin to change, because even though $64 billion is a great place to start, it's -- or $63 billion, it's definitely less than $79 billion.

And so our guess is that volume and originations will be under the $100 billion mark and we will need to go ahead and make some adjustments. But, again, I think the competitive atmosphere is very fierce, but it's very rational.

KEN USDIN: My last question, Tim, just with regard to your favorite slide, you had big delta in provision this quarter and you're talking about the mortgage banking revenue now starting to turn from here. I know it's hard to say in any given quarter if you're going to actually be able to grow EPS in the quarter ahead, but can you just talk us through -- again, it's hard to see the provision move much more and we know that mortgage is kind of tailing. So what do you expect to be the biggest drivers, other than maybe the other income reverting back up, to kind of continue to get that net income moving the right way?

TIM SLOAN: It's a very fair question given the potential decline in mortgage revenues, but, again, let's make sure we put that in perspective. Mortgage revenues are a little over 10% of our total revenues for the Company. That's number one.

Number two, when you look at the breadth of the growth in the Company in terms of net interest income growth, you saw loan growth. You saw us take advantage of the fact that given the rate backup we invested more in securities. We haven't invested this much in securities in a long time, not even when we saw the backup in the first quarter.

When you look at the noninterest or the fee revenues, really across the board we saw growth with the exception of some of those areas that were affected by the backup in rates. So there was a good story there. I don't necessarily think this is the end of the improvement in credit, because the factors continue to -- that are driving the improvement in credit haven't bottomed out. And then I think it's likely that we will continue to see some improvement in expenses.

So when you put it all together I don't think it's just one item. If it was, I'd tell you and you could decide whether or not it would make sense, but the good news for us, because of our diversified model, we don't have to rely upon one or two specific areas to be able to make up a decline in any business. We have seen declines in some of our businesses each quarter now for the last 14 quarters and we still have been able to grow. Whether or not we can do in the third quarter I can't promise you that, but I sure do like our chances to continue to grow earnings over time.

JOHN STUMPF: Tim is absolutely right on that. We are absolutely focused around here on growth, and it comes from our basic operating philosophy around helping customers succeed financially. And when you are in 90 different businesses, as Tim mentioned, not every quarter would be a complete offset to another one, but over time we believe we have the right business model, the right leaders, the right markets to continue to grow this company. And we sure like our chances on that.

KEN USDIN: Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. How are you guys doing? Just one follow-up question on the MSRs; you talked about you could see some sales. Would these be material sales of MSRs? What level of MSRs would you like to hold?

TIM SLOAN: We are very comfortable with the level of MSR that we have today. Having said that, from a risk management standpoint it's prudent to investigate the sale of any of the assets that you have on the books, whether it's MSRs or otherwise.

I think to the extent that we would move forward to sell MSRs, we would focus on those MSRs that tend to be to a customer that only has one product, that mortgage that we service with the company. That would be where the primary focus would be.

I don't necessarily think it would be material because we don't think we have to do it. But it sure does make sense, given the volatility in interest rates, to look at all your assets and make sure that you know how to and can execute on sales before you'd ever get to a position that you would have to do it.

JOHN STUMPF: Paul, think of it this way. I wouldn't make more of this than it is. We have a very large and important servicing business. We love that business. From time to time opportunistically we will sell something and reposition, but we like the balance and we like that business a whole lot.

PAUL MILLER: Then on the credit side, I believe your reserve ratio is down around 2%. What do you think you can take that down to with your improvement in credit and improvement in HPI?

TIM SLOAN: We don't have a target. It's a fair question, but we don't have a target. It was 2.01% at the end of the quarter. It's going to be what it's going to be based upon the improvement in the underlying credit trends.

I wouldn't be surprised if it was below 2% next quarter. That's a possibility. It could be a little bit higher, it could be a little bit lower, but there's not a specific target that we have because it's really just a result of their underlying credit performance.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, guys. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning, guys, and congrats on a solid quarter.

I guess, as you mentioned, the economic data continues to improve. With last week's employment report and the strengthening housing recovery and why you talked about the multiplier effect, are you seeing much of a pickup in activity yet at the customer level as well? When might we see this translate into stronger loan growth, particularly on the commercial side?

TIM SLOAN: The primary areas that we are seeing it take hold is on the consumer side. You saw our consumer loans. Again, you need to back out the impact of the liquidating portfolio.

But we saw auto growth; we saw credit card growth, which was very nice. We are continuing to see growth in terms of just household formation that's out there, and that allows us to continue to grow deposits. So all those are good trends.

There's no question there's going to be a bit of a lag effect as it relates to stronger commercial loan growth. Our commercial loan growth again has been pretty strong.

This is now, I think, the 10th consecutive quarter that wholesale in total has grown. And it's certainly in certain segments and industries within the wholesale portfolio we are seeing some good growth. But my guess again it will be a quarter or so before we start to see a big pickup.

JOE MORFORD: So you are not really seeing customers drawdown cash yet or really make more investments?

TIM SLOAN: No, no. I wish they were, but unfortunately not. When you look at line usage in the commercial side, it has been pretty stagnant for a bit.

JOHN STUMPF: And you're right, Joe. That happens first. That is typically the first thing that happens.

JOE MORFORD: Then just on investment banking, revenues up strong from the first quarter. Can you just talk a little bit more about the drivers there? And maybe, if you could, just an update on the business in general and how it's progressing and market share gains and things like that?

TIM SLOAN: Overall, the business is performing very well. The primary drivers for the growth wasn't necessarily in any one specific product type within the business and it was very, very much focused on our existing customer base.

The fees were up 40% year-over-year. Most of that, again, was with our existing commercial and corporate customers. I think our market share at the end of the quarter ended up at about 5.8%, which was fine.

We are not running that business for any sort of market share. We are running that business to be able to be there for our customers when they need us. And when you look at the growth in the business and the fact that it's primarily focused on those customers, it's performing quite well.

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, to add something to that, I make a lot of calls in that area on behalf of our team and these are existing customers for the most part. They appreciate the skill set and the abilities we have in that business, especially as we partner with our retail distribution platform. So we make a compelling offer and our long-term customers appreciate that added service that we have for them.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: I am trying to get just a real simple answer and that is -- I heard what you said, John, about the improving housing market, and that was helpful. But the question is are the benefits in the improving housing market already in the numbers of Wells Fargo?

My column A, based on what you said, are some headwinds. The origination pipeline down 10% to 15%. Repurchase reserves are all pretty low. Gain on sale going down.

And the column B are, perhaps, some tailwinds. Expenses perhaps going down from the workout costs and the mortgage platform, the MSRs, and the credit. So which is greater, column A or column B?

And, John, in your opening remarks you said Wells benefits -- your grammatical tense was the present tense and I think Ken at one point said Wells Fargo benefited, the past tense. So does Wells Fargo still benefit in their bottom-line results from the improving housing market or is it all in the numbers?

JOHN STUMPF: Here's the way I look at that, Mike. When housing gets better, it's better for Americans, it's better for the country, and that improves for us. You know, we have a commitment to residential real estate and commercial real estate, for that matter, in this company because that's what our customers want us to buy.

I can't tell you what's going to happen in the next quarter, but I can tell you this. And improving housing market will benefit customers and us, because we are, at the end of the day, a reflection of our customers. So the benefits are yet to come.

It might come in different line items. You're right, if rates rise there will be less refinances. We've been there before. But it also means improved credit. It means improved confidence. Customers start small businesses. We are a big small business bank. Environmental costs go away.

So I would take that trait all day long. An improving housing market, even if it means less refinances because rates are rising at the same time, that's fine.

TIM SLOAN: Mike, the only other thing I would add is I don't think you have enough columns on your sheet of paper. We have 90 different businesses. We are not just a housing -- if we were just a mortgage company, then I think the columns and the items that you pointed out would have been absolutely spot on.

But this is a portion of our business. It's a great business, terrific people. We are helping customers succeed all the time in that business, but we have 90 other businesses or 89 other businesses in this company that are continuing to grow. And you see, not only this quarter, but over the last year that many of the businesses have been growing, not only as it relates to net interest income, but also to noninterest income.

So, again, who knows what's going to happen in the third quarter, but over time this diversified model is very helpful when you have one business where revenues might be coming down.

MIKE MAYO: If I can speak your language, so I guess you would say there's 90 horses pulling the stagecoach. And as the mortgage horse is slowing down, or potentially slows down, although it has certainly been stronger for longer, which of those other 89 businesses do you think are most able to pick up the slack?

TIM SLOAN: All of them. It's not just one, Mike, and that is what's exciting. If it was just one, actually we would be worried about it, but -- it's a nice analogy. That would be quite a stagecoach that we would have. But the mortgage horse has been a big, strong horse. We've got 89 other horses that are going to be able to grow.

Again, just look at the numbers this quarter to get a feeling for -- we call out 10 to 12. There's even more as you pore through the numbers in terms of performance.

JOHN STUMPF: We talked the last couple of quarters about how we think we have an opportunity in credit card. We are seeing great increases there. Look at the Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement side of the business.

Now these are not all one horse offsets the other horse, but when you have a whole team out there, the key is keep the coach running. And we like that diversity.

MIKE MAYO: Last follow-up, just in case the other 89 businesses don't pick up the slack right away, as Jake Morgan said on his call earlier that you can have a slowdown in mortgage but a lag in the expense take out, can you just remind us of the expense flexibility that you have outside of mortgage?

JOHN STUMPF: We still think there's opportunity on expenses here and I think Tim mentioned that earlier in the call. So as you mentioned on the mortgage side, first of all, there is the commission base, so that happens immediately, and then we are very good at sizing the business based on what's going on. We've done that many times.

But in other businesses, for example, we started something called the neighborhood store with 6,200 stores. We opened our first one in Washington, DC, and that operates at 40% less cost but the same functionality. There are tons of opportunities like that -- paperless ATM receipts, nickels and dimes in the corners that all add up at the end of the day, in addition to the environmental costs.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. I promise I'm not going to ask a mortgage banking question.

There has been a lot of press around this issue of the kiosk branch that you're introducing I think into New York City. Could you just talk about that a little bit and whether this signals some sort of broader experimentation with branch types throughout the network, or is this something specific to New York?

JOHN STUMPF: It's actually Washington, DC. Let me tell you, first of all, we have about 6,200 stores and the stores have been relatively flat in numbers. There is a lot of discussion today about -- in our industry whether stores are still relevant. We think they are enormously relevant, even to our millennial customers. And store usage and channel usage, frankly, is based on many times age, affluence, and activity.

When we talk with our customers, even the Millennials visit our stores once every year or six months or some time. It's places where they go to open their first account. It's where people go if they can't [sell a product] any place else and it's the place they take their money if they come into a trust fund that funds out or whatever the case may be.

But here's the key. As long as our customers tell us that destination distribution like a store is important, we are going to build it for them. We are going to have stores where they need them, where they want them. That's important to growing deposits, to selling products and services to them.

If we ever get a time where they say it's not important, then we will adjust that way also. So since stores are important, how do you make them more efficient? And how do you build them in a way that allows for the convenience they want, the availability they want, but also under the cost structure that makes sense?

The neighborhood store we have is about 1,000 square feet. During the daytime it's a full-functioning store. It happens to be paperless. It happens to have -- the cash there is contained within machines that can cash a check down to the dollar. And then after-hours the walls fold in and it's an ATM vestibule, so you kind of get the best of both.

This is a test-and-learn. We've done a lot of testing and learning around here, and in many of those densely populated marketplaces you can't rent a facility of 5,000 square feet. 1,000 is all you can get. So that makes it available to you.

So if this works, we will do more. If it doesn't work, we have got -- this is not the only test we have going on. We have lots of tests going on.

NANCY BUSH: But at this point it's an additive strategy. It wouldn't be where you would take existing branches that are sort of, quote, more normal branches and change them? It's just an additive strategy at this point?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, it's additive, but it might be a replacement strategy for certain stores. In fact, some of what we are doing today is taking in two stores and building a new one and consolidating the two. Depending on customer flows, depending on customer needs.

We are a retailer, so most retailers that I respect are always looking at their distribution footprint and model. But the long and the short of it is we believe in the store concept. When I first got in the industry we had the operation from the second floor and the Board room on the bottom floor, in the basement. We had -- and it has changed since that time. It will continue to change.

NANCY BUSH: Am I right in assuming that the breakeven on these things is like weeks or a few months?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, it depends on the activity in the store and the activity of the customer. Five years ago the breakeven was very different than it is today. Customers borrowed more. There's a different margin on borrowing versus depositing.

But I wouldn't say it's in weeks and months, but it's about 40% reduction in cost with the same functionality. That's a big deal.

NANCY BUSH: All right. Second question is this; your improvement in cross-sell from 6 to 6.14 and your ongoing improvements in cross-sell, is this merely one product, two products? Is there sort of still a, quote, lead product you guys have that sort of leads cross-sell?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, it's checking accounts. That's why when I wake up in the morning, I get here and the first thing I look at is the checking account report from the day before. I love checking accounts. I dream about them. I just -- because (multiple speakers)

NANCY BUSH: John, you've been in the business too long. I'm sorry.

JOHN STUMPF: Because it's a formational account for a consumer. And the second probably most important is mortgage and that's why we are almost -- we are obsessive about that, about serving customers.

NANCY BUSH: Yes. And just finally one quick thing, and I probably already know what the answer is but I've got to ask it anyway. Given that there has been yet one more attempt at Glass-Steagall, break them up. You are all too big. You are bigger now than you were before the financial crisis, blah blah, blah.

Are you -- I would assume that you would be in this group of break-them-up banks and I guess my question is what could you be broken up into?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Nancy, this is America. People are free to express their opinion, that's one of the beauties of this country. From my perspective, we are solidly in the real economy.

What we do is to serve customers -- small business, large business, commercial real estate customers, consumers. And virtually everything we do has a customer on the other side of it.

When we take a deposit in, we don't put it into a vault and (inaudible). We put it to work. We make consumer loans, commercial loans, small business loans. Loans to ranchers and farmers and energy companies and renewable -- that's what we do.

And that's proprietary. That's putting -- because we have to manage those kinds of risks. I understand that.

I don't understand how serving customers broadly and deeply, including helping them with a public offering, whether it be debt or equity, somehow makes us riskier or weaker or puts depositors at risk more so than banking alone. But I understand that's the dialogue.

You've got to realize the capital that is been raised, the discipline around risk of all kinds is far different than it was just a few years ago. I am proud of this company and proud of what we do. I know that we are helping this economy to recover, to heal, and we do all we can to do that.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Morning, guys. Just a couple [TIKI TAK] questions. First on expenses, environmental costs have come down significantly the last couple of quarters. Is there a lot more room to go from there?

I know you had mentioned that they were not all behind us, but I assume that we won't go to zero on a lot of these. Some of these will be ongoing costs when I'm looking at your page 13 on your slide. How much room should we really think about is left to go?

TIM SLOAN: I don't know the exact answer to your question, Andrew. I think it's a fair question because, as you point out, we've made a tremendous amount of progress over the last few quarters. I don't think -- so if you just pick two items, for example, foreclosed asset expenses, which were $146 million in the second quarter, that doesn't feel to me to be the run rate that we would settle in.

Could it go up? It could go up, it could go down, but I think over time there still is some room for that to decline.

Then also I think the contra revenue item that we had, which is the MSR servicing and foreclosure cost impact, again the primary driver there is continued foreclosure timelines in certain judicial foreclosure states, primarily New York and New Jersey. And over time that will, I think, begin -- will continue to moderate. So I think those in particular there is probably a little bit more room to run. But you are correct; the rate of increase is going to slow down.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, okay. That's helpful, thanks. Then, secondly, back to liquidity. Just want a clarification, because you had mentioned in an earlier comment about how you may need to raise some additional liquidity, is that related to the LCR or is that related to the consideration of other things in terms of the OLA additional bailing debt considerations that are out there?

Because when we look at LCR, we have you guys in a pretty healthy range of [120] to [140] depending on how you calculate it. So I was just a little surprised by that comment.

TIM SLOAN: I think that is the -- you hit the nail on the head with your last comment and that is it's hard to calculate the answer when you don't really know what all the variables are going to be. We think we have more than sufficient amount of liquidity to be able to operate Wells Fargo. We've been able to demonstrate that through some pretty significant downturns.

The rules might change a little bit. If that's the case, will we have to make some adjustments to the balance sheet if we do that? That's fine. We'll adjust to that.

But it's not -- the onset of finalizing the Basel III LCR and any of the interpretation that might occur from our domestic regulators is not impacting the way that we are running the business today. Meaning that we are not -- we don't have some money set aside that we can't lend to our customers or we can't invest in securities because we are too concerned about that.

There's a lot of moving parts and, again, we are going to -- we will comply with whatever the final rules are. We will do that in an appropriate timeframe, but it's not a limiting factor for the Company today.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. And what is the constraining factor when we should think about excess liquidity and the ability to deploy more into securities or loans or what have you? What is the sense that --?

TIM SLOAN: It's the rate of economic growth and the rate of loan growth. When we think about the recovery, as we have talked about, we continue to be in a recovery that has had to adjust to a tremendous amount of headwinds. It has been, from our perspective, remarkably resilient.

But our loan growth would be a lot stronger if we were at a 3% GDP level or a 4% GDP level, which is about what I think everybody expected a few years ago when we started to come out of the downturn is primarily loan growth. Less today -- in terms of investments, less today rates. That was a big limiting factor for us a year ago and nine months ago and three months ago, for that matter. Less today for sure rates because rates are more attractive today.

JOHN STUMPF: And the beauty of it, if borrowing does start, those costs are already embedded. We already have those approved. That's just all revenue then.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it, that's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning, a couple questions. One on page 26 you got the PCI accretable yield slide and you indicated the weighted average life is 14.5 years there. So that's up from last quarter where I think it was like 12.3 or something like that. I am just wondering what is behind driving that up.

TIM SLOAN: A couple of things. One is just that we have a general improvement in the underlying portfolio and the delinquency in the portfolio has come down a little bit so that the expectation according to the model is that customers are going to stay in their homes longer.

We could be -- it could be, though, that you could reach a point whereas you continue to see home values increasing that it could reach a point where those customers may be more comfortable and able to sell their homes or even to refinance. And that would begin to bring the average life down. But I wouldn't read into that change any big change in our assumptions or anything like that. It's very variable on a quarter-to-quarter basis.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, but you're basically saying credit quality is improving and that's why the weighted average life is extending?

TIM SLOAN: Correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Do you have anything at all in there for prepays, or it's not rate related at all?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, we definitely do. That's part of the -- that is one of the important variables in the model. But, again, personally I think that prepays are going to accelerate over time as values continue to go up. We haven't seen that yet in the performance level, but I think logically it could occur.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then -- which would short duration and pull in the PCI a little bit faster?

TIM SLOAN: Correct.

JOHN STUMPF: Correct.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then, separately, HPI going up significantly in the most recent quarter. If this level of housing value held for the rest of the year, how much is that going to be impacting your loan growth?

I know this question has been asked a couple different times. But I guess the real question is do you feel that the current value of housing price is in 2Q's numbers, or is there more to come from the HPI improvement that we've seen this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: We tend to use a lag assumption and we tend to be a little bit more conservative. We're not going to take, for example, the housing price, the 13% that John mentioned what we have seen year-over-year, and assume that is going to continue forever. And so you've got to be very careful with that.

I think we have been, and I think the entire industry and the market has been, positively surprised at the level at which housing prices have -- how resilient they've been, how much they've grown, and the percentage that they've grown. So, again, I think that we've seen some nice improvement. Our expectation is that we are very positively leveraged to home prices and so we could see some improvement from the results that you see here in the second quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Just thinking in particular about home equity, because that to me seems like the area where you should have some of the sharpest swings as HPI has gone up so much recently over the next couple of quarters. But I don't know if that's a fair assessment given (multiple speakers)

TIM SLOAN: Betsy, I think you are absolutely right in that maybe using the word leverage is maybe even more appropriate there. When you think about the impact to a home equity portfolio, which the majority of our home equity portfolios our junior liens, to the extent that you've got a portion of that that is above 100%, home -- increasing home values really, really impact that portfolio.

BETSY GRASECK: So are you seeing much in the demand and the origination pipeline for that product yet, or is it too early?

TIM SLOAN: I think our home equity originations were up year-over-year, but I don't that they were necessarily up significantly from the first quarter. It's a good product. It's underwritten very well today. It's one of the many products we provide. It's a slight uptick, but it wasn't one of the drivers for the home equity or our loan growth or we would've called it out.

BETSY GRASECK: Got it, thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, KBW: Good morning, John. Tim, I had a quick question for you. I'm going to go all the way back to the first question today and I can't promise what Nancy promised. It will be a mortgage question.

When you look at the servicing side of the business and how it flows through the income statement, the servicing asset has -- the MSR has been written up about $3 billion in the last couple quarters and yet the servicing income is still kind of stuck in that $300 million to $400 million range per quarter. So in order for that natural hedge to fully take hold, if indeed we see a material -- and that's my assumption -- a material decrease in refinance activity, do you have to start lessening up on the hedge on the MSR for that to flow through to the income statement more so than it has?

TIM SLOAN: If you wanted to create a natural hedge, you would have to reduce your hedge percentages, and in doing that, you would potentially create a lot more interest rate risk. Not potentially, you would create a lot more interest rate risk for the Company. We just don't think that that is a prudent thing to do.

So I think, historically, when the business was smaller than it is today, it might have been a little bit more -- we might have more flexibility to do that. That doesn't really make sense to us today. So our hedge ratios are relatively high, which is one of the reasons why you are not seeing a one-for-one offset.

There will be some benefit, there's no question about that. And I think one of the key benefits of the servicing portfolio over time is that the quality of what you are servicing continues to increase because you continue to originate better quality mortgages that are going to pay for a longer period of time and you don't have as much foreclosure impact.

I think that in terms of comparing our servicing results over the next few quarters with what we've experienced in the last few quarters, most of the reduction that you have seen has been related to foreclosure elongation and things like that. And we are hopeful that that's going to dissipate. But I would not look for the MSR to dollar-for-dollar offset any reduction in revenues from the origination side of the business. There's some natural relation, but it's not one-for-one.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Just one quick follow-up. I think John had mentioned, or I think both of you mentioned, potential MSR sales going forward. And I think, John, you had mentioned -- I don't want to put words in your mouth, but maybe there would be kind of one-off type portfolio similar to the reverse mortgage sale recently. Would the Pick-a-Pay portfolio be included as a one-off potential sale in terms of MSRs?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, that when we own. We own the assets there, so I wouldn't look for that area, per se. And I don't want to give guidance here, but I think what you should take away from this is that we like the MSR business. We think it's critical to -- well, we not only like it because of the business itself but because of the cross-sell we do out of it and that we will sell from time to time opportunistically.

I think Tim mentioned that we might look at something that has a single-product household kind of dynamic here. But we are always looking at all of our businesses as is an opportunity here to monetize something that might be more valuable to someone else than to us? Sure, we will look at that. I wouldn't look for a big change here.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: My question was asked, thanks.

TIM SLOAN: Okay, thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Hi, Chris. Okay, thank you much. I know we went over time a little bit, but thank you all for joining our call. We appreciate your interest and your coverage of Wells Fargo.

See you next quarter. Thank you much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130719e97c001jl
  


 HD
 Q1  2013 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,564 words
   PD
12 April 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will discuss first-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and thanks, everyone, for joining us today. In the first quarter, Wells Fargo generated another record quarter of earnings and we achieved our 13th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth. We have achieved these results by doing what we have always done -- remaining focused on meeting the financial needs of our customers and helping them succeed financially.

We accomplished this in an environment that I think we would all agree wasn't ideal for generating earnings growth, demonstrating the benefit of our diversified business model. Our business is diverse in many ways. We are geographically diverse; we have over 80 different businesses that perform differently in various economic environments; and our revenue is split fairly evenly between interest and non-interest income. That kind of diversity lowers risk and enhances earnings stability and growth.

Let me start by highlighting examples of our strong performance in the first quarter compared to a year ago. We earned a record $5.2 billion, up 22%, and also grew our earnings per share by 23%. We reduced our expenses and improved our efficiency ratio by 180 basis points to 58.3%.

Our core loan portfolio grew by $50.9 billion, up 8%. Our credit losses reflected the benefit of a slowly improving economy and the high quality loans we have been originating over the past few years. Our credit losses in the first quarter declined to 72 basis points, the lowest level since second-quarter 2006, and our net charge-offs were down 41% from a year ago.

We also continued to benefit from our wonderful deposit franchise, growing deposits by $80 billion, up 9% from a year ago, while reducing total deposit costs by 5 basis points. Our growth reflects the benefit of our relationship model, as demonstrated by achieving record Retail Banking cross-sell of 6.1 products per household. We also grew Wholesale Banking cross-sell to 6.8 products, and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement cross-sell increased to 10.3 products.

We grew our return on assets, or our ROA, by 18 basis points to 1.49%. And our return on equity increased by 145 basis points to 13.59%.

We continue to increase our capital levels, growing our estimated Tier 1 common equity under Basel III to 8.39%. Returning more capital to our shareholders remains a priority, and we are extremely pleased that we were able to reward them in the first quarter by increasing our common dividend to $0.25 a share. Our 2013 Capital Plan enables us to further increase our dividend rate to $0.30 a share in the second quarter -- subject, of course, to Board approval -- and also increase our common stock repurchases in 2013 compared to our 2012 repurchase levels.

We are obviously off to a great start in 2013, and I couldn't be happier with the ability of our team members to continue to make more loans and grow deposits, increase cross-sell, and reduce expenses, all while we continue to invest in our franchise and adhere to our risk management discipline.

Let me conclude by taking a moment to share my thoughts on some industry issues and our current view on housing. A topic that has been in the headlines a lot lately is important to Wells Fargo, our industry, and the economic recovery of our country; that is, Too Big to Fail. I believe our first priority as a country, given the economy's tepid growth, is restoring economic health to America, including consumers and businesses large and small.

Banks fuel and support economic growth, and we need banks of all shapes and sizes to serve the diverse needs of a diverse economy. All banks add value, and big banks have unique resources and capabilities to help the economy, including coast-to-coast convenience, a broad range of products and services and technology innovations serving large and small customers alike.

There are ongoing discussions about the need for more regulation and other changes. We do not need additional legislation aimed at big banks. Important and significant regulatory changes have been made since the financial crisis, and we need to give existing regulations a chance to work, especially now, when all of our energy should be focused on creating growth and new jobs.

No bank should be considered Too Big to Fail, and no taxpayer money should ever be used to support a failing institution. Some claim that we receive a subsidy or have an unfair advantage from being perceived as Too Big to Fail. We disagree.

Wells Fargo supports economic growth in our country in a variety of ways including employing 1 in 500 working Americans and paying more than $10 billion in corporate income taxes last year. We are the nation's largest small-business lender, and increased new loan commitments to small businesses by 24% in the first quarter compared with a year ago, and have grown loans to our middle-market consumer customers for 11 consecutive quarters.

We also funded one in four US home mortgages in 2012, a total of over 2 million mortgage loans, that helped our customers buy a home or refinance their existing home at much lower rates. This is great for the overall economy, because housing has led almost every economic recovery in recent history.

The momentum from the housing rebound during 2012 has remained strong in the early months of 2013. Our near-term outlook is for steady gains in home sales, building activity, and price appreciation.

Housing affordability remains excellent. The overhang from unsold properties is gone, and demographics are favorable.

Thank you again for joining us. Tim Sloan, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our results this quarter. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. My comments will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement, starting on page 2. And then John and I will take your questions.

Wells Fargo had another outstanding quarter with record earnings of $5.2 billion, up 22% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter. Earnings per share reached a record $0.92, up 23% from the first quarter last year. We have now achieved 13 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and eight consecutive quarters of record EPS, quite an achievement given the environment during that period.

Revenue was down this quarter, reflecting two fewer days in the quarter, a decline in equity gains from elevated levels we had in the fourth quarter, and an expected decline in mortgage volumes. We were not surprised by these declines. We had anticipated them, and we are very pleased with the strong fee growth we generated in a number of our other businesses.

Our quarterly results also reflect lower expenses, strong credit performance, and increased capital levels. As John highlighted and you can see on page 3, we had year-over-year growth in pre-tax pre-provision profit, net income, EPS, both total and core loans, deposits, and a higher ROA and ROE.

Slide 4 highlights why we have been able to generate consistently strong results -- the diversity of our revenue. We remain balanced between fee and spread income, and our sources of fee income are highly diversified.

Mortgage banking account for 26% of our fee income this quarter and was 13% of our total revenue. We could not be more pleased with the performance of our mortgage business.

What may surprise some of you is that trust and investment fees accounted for 30% of our fee income in the first quarter and has generated more fee income than any other category, including mortgage, for the past four quarters. We had strong year-over-year fee growth with a number of our businesses, with deposit service charges up 12%; brokerage up 12%; trust and investment up 6%; investment banking up 37%; card fees up 13%; merchant processing fees up 23%; and mortgage servicing income up 25%.

With over 80 businesses, they are not all going to grow every quarter. We are excited about the market share and cross-sell growth we achieved this quarter across a number of our businesses. The diversity of our revenue enables us to make the right long-term decisions and be disciplined in managing risk.

Overall this was a pretty straightforward quarter from a balance sheet and an income statement perspective; but let me highlight some key drivers to our results on the next two slides. On page 5 you can see we continued to have balance sheet growth this quarter, growing both loans and deposits.

Even though we purchased a total of $17.8 billion in agency MBS in the quarter, our short-term investments and Fed funds sold balances increased by $6.5 billion as average deposits continued to grow. We grew our securities available-for-sale portfolio by $13 billion, up 5.5% from the fourth quarter.

This is our largest linked-quarter increase since the fourth quarter of 2011. We took advantage of the rate back up at various times within the quarter, as rates rose and yields became more attractive.

Turning to the income statement on page 6, I have already highlighted some of the factors affecting the decline in revenue we had this quarter, and I will talk about net interest income and non-interest income drivers in a minute. Non-interest expense has declined as expected, reflecting the elimination of seasonally -- of elevated items we had last quarter and the addition of some seasonally higher benefit costs in the first quarter.

Our effective tax rate this quarter was 31.9%, which included the benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written-down investment. We expect the full-year effective tax rate to be higher, absent additional discrete benefits.

Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail. As shown on page 7, period-end loans were up $33.5 billion or 4% from a year ago and grew by $392 million from the fourth quarter. Loan growth included the runoff of our liquidating portfolio, which declined $17.4 billion from a year ago and $3.7 billion from the fourth quarter.

Excluding these liquidating loans, our core portfolio grew by $50.9 billion or 8% from a year ago and was up $4.1 billion from the fourth quarter. Our linked-quarter loan growth was impacted by the very strong quarter-end growth we had last quarter, and the fact that we were able to retain and add to those loan balances is a real positive.

Commercial loans grew $516 million in the quarter on growth in foreign loans. We saw declines in foreign loans throughout most of last year, and the growth we achieved this quarter was in trade finance, reflecting increased economic activity in Asia.

Consumer loans declined $124 million, with growth in first mortgage and auto offset by declines in junior lien mortgages and expected seasonal declines in credit card and student lending. The growth in first mortgage loans benefited from the retention of $3.4 billion of new conforming fixed-rate production. We currently do not plan to retain additional first mortgage production, although we have the flexibility to do so if conditions change.

We continued to grow deposits in the first quarter, with period-end deposits up $7.9 billion from the fourth quarter. Average deposits were up $71.2 billion or 8% from a year ago, and up $10.1 billion from the fourth quarter.

We also grew our primary consumer checking account customers by a net 2.1% from a year ago. These are basically active customers who transact with us regularly.

We continued to lower our deposit costs, with average deposit costs of 15 basis points in the first quarter, down 1 basis point from the fourth quarter and down 5 basis points from a year ago. We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for nine consecutive quarters. Our ability to lower deposit costs while consistently growing deposits reflects our long-standing relationship focus and pricing discipline.

As shown on page 9, tax-equivalent net interest income was down 2% from the fourth quarter, primarily due to two fewer days in the first quarter. Without this day count impact, net interest income would have been essentially flat.

Average earning assets grew $21.6 billion from the fourth quarter, reflecting increases in short-term investments, loans, and available-for-sale securities. Our net interest margin declined by 8 basis points from the fourth quarter to 3.48%. This decline was driven by three primary factors.

First, our continued deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase, reducing the margin by 3 basis points. As we've highlighted in the past, our deposit growth is obviously beneficial to deepening customer relationships and does not negatively impact net interest income, but it is dilutive to the NIM.

Second, 3 basis points of the decline was due to lower variable income, including PCI loan resolutions and periodic dividends. Finally, 2 basis points of the margin pressure was driven by the ongoing repricing of the balance sheet in this low rate environment, net of the growth in loans and AFS securities. Growing net interest income remains our focus, which we believe we can grow even in this low rate environment.

Non-interest income was down from the fourth quarter on lower gains on equity investments, which were highlighted last quarter as being above average, and the expected decline in mortgage which I will highlight in the next slide. Because of the seasonality of many of our businesses and the lower day count in the first quarter, it is best to look at the year-over-year growth rates to demonstrate the momentum we have had in many of our businesses.

Deposit service charges increased 12%, reflecting customer growth and product and pricing changes. Brokerage fees and trust and investment management fees grew, reflecting strong net asset flows and higher equity valuations. Investment banking fees were up 37% from a year ago as we continue to do more business with our Wholesale customers. Card fees were up 13% with growth driven by strong new account growth and higher credit and debit card spend.

On page 11 we highlight some mortgage trends. While mortgage revenue was down this quarter, as expected, we still had strong originations of $109 billion, our sixth consecutive quarter of more than $100 billion in originations. Mortgage revenue was reduced by $112 million this quarter from the retention of $3.4 billion of conforming first mortgages.

Gain on sale margins remained historically high; and as we have been saying for the past few quarters, we would expect these margins to decline. Origination volume for the rest of the year will obviously depend on continued strength in the housing market and interest rates; but we expect volumes to remain relatively strong, given the improved purchase market and the benefit of the spring buying season.

In fact, we have already seen the improved purchase market benefiting our results, with originations for home purchases up 31% this quarter compared with the year ago. And also many of our existing customers can still benefit from a refinance.

We added $309 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter, down $70 million from the fourth quarter. Our repurchase reserve balance increased to $2.3 billion. Our repurchase reserve incorporates current demand levels, considers all vintages, and anticipates probable future expected demands.

Our servicing portfolio continued to perform better than the industry. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 6.54% in the first quarter, down 50 basis points linked-quarter and down from 6.89% a year ago.

Turning to expenses on page 12, first-quarter expenses declined $496 million from the fourth quarter which had included higher operating losses and a contribution to our Foundation. As expected, our first-quarter expenses included $460 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching, as well as $199 million in annual equity awards for retirement-eligible team members.

In addition to lower operating losses and charitable contributions, we reduced expenses in a number of other areas including occupancy, outside professional services, contract services, and advertising and promotion. We expect expenses to be lower in the second quarter, reflecting lower employee benefit expenses that were seasonally higher this quarter. But there will be normal growth in other areas including ongoing investments in our business and normal merit increases.

Our expense efficiency ratio of 58.3% was within our target range of 55% to 59% and was down 180 basis points from a year ago. We have been focused on reducing expenses for years, as you can see the impact on our results. But we still believe our expenses are too high and we can continue to improve our efficiency ratio.

Last quarter we highlighted environmentally elevated cost, and we have made progress in reducing these costs this quarter as shown on slide 13, and we expect them to continue to decline. We had approximately $50 million of continued costs from the Independent Foreclosure Review this quarter, and these costs will be fully eliminated next quarter.

Foreclosed asset expense was down $26 million from the fourth quarter and down $109 million from a year ago, reflecting the improvement in the housing market which we expect will continue. Mortgage revenue this quarter was reduced by $250 million for additions to our repurchase reserve not related to current originations, and was reduced by $58 million to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure cost as some foreclosure timelines continue to extend.

Turning to our segment results, starting on page 14. Community Banking earned $2.9 billion in the first quarter, up 25% from a year ago and up 2% from the fourth quarter.

Retail Banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.1 products per household up from 5.98 a year ago. To better meet our customers' financial needs and improve cross-sell, we continually invest in our business, including new store designs, improved technology, and adding bankers. We grew platform banker FTE by 1,528 from a year ago and by 478 in just the first quarter alone.

Our credit card business continued to have strong account growth, with a record of 577,000 new accounts in the first quarter, up 18% from a year ago and up 31% from the fourth quarter. Our household penetration increased to 34.1%, up from 29.9% a year ago. Credit card balances are down from the fourth quarter, reflecting normal seasonality, but are up 10% from a year ago, reflecting strong account growth.

We also had continuing momentum in our auto business, and we are now the industry's leading auto lender. We generated record auto originations in the first quarter of $6.8 billion, up 10% from a year ago and up 27% from the fourth quarter. We also successfully met the needs of our small-business customers, with business checking accounts up 2.9% from a year ago. We also extended $4.2 billion of net new loan commitments to small-business customers this quarter, up 24% from a year ago.

Wholesale Banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the first quarter, up 9% from a year ago and up 1% from the fourth quarter. Wholesale Banking results continued to benefit from steady loan growth, with loans having grown for 10 consecutive quarters.

Industry loan growth remains tepid, but our relationship focus has enabled us to grow market share, and we have been able to generate middle-market loan growth for 11 consecutive quarters. This growth has occurred as we maintained our pricing and risk discipline.

Our risk and underwriting discipline is also reflected in the $8 million in loan-loss recoveries in Wholesale Banking this quarter. The last time Wholesale was in a net recovery position was nearly seven years ago in the second quarter of 2006.

Asset Management fees were up 8% from a year ago and were up 2% from the fourth quarter. Total assets in a management increased $11.4 billion from the fourth quarter, with growth in all asset types. The growth reflects the benefit from favorable markets and $4.1 billion of net inflows in the first quarter. Wholesale Banking's continued focus on building relationships (technical difficulty) resulted in cross-sell of 6.8 products per relationship, up from 6.6 a year ago.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $337 million, up 14% from a year ago, driven by strong growth in asset-based fees and higher brokerage transaction revenue. Earnings were down 4% from the fourth quarter, reflecting seasonally higher personnel expenses and lower net interest income.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement has continued to successfully grow client assets, benefiting from improved markets and growing market share. WBR client assets reached a record $1.5 trillion, up 7% from a year ago, including strong growth in Retail Brokerage managed account assets, up $46 billion or 16%, driven by strong net flows and market performance, as well as growth in average core deposits, up 10% to $149 billion.

The growth in managed account assets in the first quarter will benefit our revenue from advisory fees next quarter, since they are priced on a quarterly lag. In addition, WBR continued to effectively partner with Retail Banking to meet all the financial needs of our customers, increasing cross-sell to 10.33 products per household, up from 10.16 a year ago.

Turning to credit quality on page 17, we had significant improvement across our commercial and consumer portfolios. First-quarter net charge-offs declined to 72 basis points of average loans, the lowest level since the second quarter of 2006.

Losses in our commercial portfolio were only $90 million, or 10 basis points of average loans. Obviously, this is very strong performance; and we would expect commercial losses to remain low, but probably fluctuate around these levels.

Consumer losses declined to 123 basis points with strong improvement in our real estate secured portfolios. These portfolios should continue to benefit from our underwriting discipline and the continued improvement in the housing market.

Reflecting this improved credit performance, we released $200 million in loan loss reserves in the first quarter. Absent a significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2013.

Nonperforming assets decreased $1.6 billion from the fourth quarter and were down $3.8 billion or 14% from a year ago, with declines in both non-accrual loans and foreclosed assets. Loans 90 days or more past-due decreased $75 million from the fourth quarter and were down 17% from a year ago, with improvement in both commercial and consumer loans. Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined significantly from the fourth quarter and a year ago, with balances down 19% and with improvements in every portfolio on a linked-quarter basis.

As shown on page 19 our capital levels continue to grow. Our Tier 1 common equity ratio grew to 10.38%, up 26 basis points from the last quarter. The ratio this quarter was negatively impacted by 25 basis points from the implementation of Basel 2.5, which became effective on January 1. This implementation was reflected in our 2013 CCAR plan and did not impact our ratio under Basel III, as its impact has historically been included in this calculation. Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals increased to 8.39% in the first quarter.

We purchased 16.6 million shares, but issued 39 million shares in the first quarter, which was seasonally high because of employee benefit plan issuances. Our 2013 Capital Plan included an increase in common stock repurchases compared with our 2012 repurchases.

Our Capital Plan also included a $0.30 per share second-quarter dividend, which we will recommend to our Board at our meeting this month. This would be an increase of 36% over the second-quarter dividend last year and a 20% increase over our first-quarter dividend this year, which we had increased to $0.25 a share.

Our diversified model provides us with many opportunities to grow earnings, as highlighted by in our 13 consecutive quarters of EPS growth. On slide 20 we summarize some of the momentum we have realized throughout our businesses that I have highlighted on the call. The market share gains, customer growth, increases in loans, deposits, assets under management, positions us very well for 2013.

We also have the opportunity to further reduce expenses, benefit from improvement in credit, and deploy liquidity prudently to meet loan demand or to invest. In addition, we believe that the housing market will continue to improve, which will not only increase economic growth for our country but should benefit our revenues, reduce environmentally elevated expenses, and lower losses in our real estate secured portfolios.

In summary, we had exceptional results this quarter, earning more than we have ever earned in the history of Wells Fargo. Our EPS grew by 23% from a year ago, and we reduced expenses by 5%. Pre-tax pre-provision profit increased 2% and credit continued to show significant improvement, with losses down 41% and total chargeoffs declining to 72 basis points.

ROA grew to 1.49%, within our targeted range of 1.3% to 1.6%. And ROE increased to 13.59%, also within our targeted range of 12% to 15%. We continued to grow our capital levels while returning more capital to our shareholders by increasing our dividend and continuing to buy back our shares.

We will now open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICAMERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. My first question, John, is on your capital priority. It is clear that a dividend is on top of the list, and your yield is clearly best in class. However, I wonder how you think about weighing your buyback opportunities versus strategic opportunities for acquisition.

Because on one hand most of your shareholders are clamoring for more buyback and to actually see shares outstanding -- the count reduced. But on the other you have -- you are not a lot of banks that have your currency. So I guess if you could give us an insight in how you are thinking and weighing these issues.

And additionally. does the trajectory of mortgage have anything to do with favoring one strategy over the other?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. Thank you for the question. We have stated publicly, and I know you know this, that our payout ratio we have targeted 50% to 65%. I believe the first call in capital is to grow the business; and we have ample capital to do that and meet those payout targets.

With respect to M&A, remember that the biggest users of capital on an M&A side would be on the deposit side of the franchise, of which of course we are at our federal statutory number or close to it. And the acquisitions that we have talked about being interested in would be mostly bolt-on businesses to our existing portfolio suite, of the kind of 80 different businesses we do here, and predominantly in the United States.

So we have done some portfolios in the past. We are still interested in things around Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. But I don't see that as a huge draw on our capital.

This Company is uniquely positioned that we are producing terrific returns in absolute terms and in relative terms. There is plenty of liquidity and performance there to meet a number of goals. Again, investing in our business; doing strategic, bolt-ons where they make sense; and returning capital to our shareholders at the kind of levels we have talked about.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. My follow-up question was for Tim. Speaking of liquidity, I have already gotten a few questions in my inbox regarding how high your liquidity levels remain.

I guess, could you give -- obviously deposit growth continues to be strong. But could you give us a sense in terms of why you are keeping it at this high of a ratio relative to your earning assets?

Is it you are afraid of the duration risk? Is it -- speaks to a question mark on the duration of deposit flows? Or is it as John alluded to, warehousing some cash in order to take advantage of some of the bolt-on opportunities that could be out there?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, Erika, that is a really good question, because our liquidity levels are low. We view that as a real positive for the Company. Clearly the first call on our liquidity is always going to be for our customers.

And we have seen good loan growth year-over-year; our core loans are up $50 billion. But even with that, as you point out, we have seen very strong deposit growth.

We did deploy some of that liquidity that wasn't needed for loan growth in the first quarter at a slightly higher rate than what we have seen in the last year, when we saw rates back up. As you recall, we saw rates back up toward the end of the fourth quarter and we purchased some securities. They dipped back down; and then they backed up again throughout the quarter. And we purchased $17.8 billion of MBS.

Our plan continues to be to make the right long-term decisions and the right risk-adjusted decisions in terms of how we deploy our excess liquidity. We don't want to significantly increase duration.

So our liquidity is up. We view that as a positive, and we are looking forward to deploying it in the future.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay. I will step aside. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. Now that you are starting to see a more sustained slowdown in mortgage applications, pipeline, and originations, how are you thinking about the headcount in this division? And have you begun to address some of the variable costs there?

TIM SLOAN: Well, we actually added to the number of team members in the mortgage business in the fourth quarter, because we wanted to improve the customer service in the business. And you saw -- and we have seen a reduction in the time from app to close go from about 90 days to 60 days, which we view is a real positive and a competitive advantage.

The mortgage business is still very strong. At $109 billion it, as we mentioned, is our sixth consecutive quarter of originations above $100 billion. And we started this quarter with a fairly strong pipeline at $74 billion on an absolute basis and relative to almost most quarters we have ever been in business.

So the business continues to be strong. And as I mentioned we also saw an increase in purchase activity in the first quarter, up 31% year-over-year. I think the other positives in the business are we have now seen an extension of the HARP program; and with rates rallying again we have got more customers that could take advantage of a refinance. As well as the fact that as housing values go up there would be more customers that could potentially take advantage of a refinance.

So I think we are very bullish on the business. That said, our expectation is that it is probably likely that revenues and margins will come down a little bit.

All that said, to the extent that it comes down further than we think, we will adjust cost as our team has done through various cycles on a number of occasions. So that may happen this quarter; it may not. I kind of hope it doesn't happen because it means revenues will continue to be growing, so that would be nice.

JOE MORFORD: Right. I guess along those lines, too, what about other opportunities to sustain origination volumes? Just given some of the capacity issues you've had in recent quarters and maybe perhaps more proactively marketing to tap into some of this pent-up demand.

TIM SLOAN: Well, Joe, I think that is a really good point. The way that our team thinks about it, and one of the reasons we want to make sure that we are adequately staffed, is that we do view the purchase market as a big opportunity. So that as refinancing volume comes down, which it has come down over the last few quarters, we have our sales folks out there and our bankers out there being more proactive with our customers.

JOHN STUMPF: That's a great point, Tim. Joe, this really plays to our strength, our One Wells Fargo working as a team. We have 30,000-plus bankers in our stores. Not every one of our customers who call us their bank has their mortgage with us. And we have kept our relationships with our realtor friends and our builder friends during the big refi time. and this is really where it comes -- it really pays off.

As in Tim's comments he mentioned that purchase volume is up 31% year over year. So that is really important for us.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN & CO.: Hi, good morning. I was wondering if you could elaborate a little bit, Tim, on the factors that helped keep the mortgage gain on sale flat at very healthy levels this quarter; and what will be the puts and takes on that going forward; and if you have any outlook there.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, good question, John, because at 2.56% it is historically high and really right on top of what we saw in the fourth quarter. Recall that our accounting convention is to recognize most of the gain on sale when we book the loan; and so the primary/secondary spread changes in the quarter and rate movements was really beneficial.

I think in terms of outlook, let me throw some numbers at you and then you can conclude what you think the right gain on sale margin might be. If you look over the last four years, and I am going to use yearly averages, the highest average we had was not surprisingly in 2012, which was 2.3%. The lowest average that we had, which was in 2011, was 1.61%.

So when you step back and look at 2.56% I think it is reasonable, as we said in the fourth quarter, to assume that the gain on sale is going to come down. My guess is it will probably end up somewhere in the range of between 1.61% and 2.33%; but I don't know exactly where it's going to be within that range.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. In terms of the mortgage putbacks, at what point will you know it is okay to start using some of that reserve? With credit we can see when the inflows slow and you start to see chargeoffs come down and forward-looking. On the putback front, when do you start maybe consuming or stop needing to add to that reserve?

TIM SLOAN: Well, John, I hope it is sooner rather than later. I don't know for sure. But when we think about our mortgage repurchase reserve we not only look at what the current demands are but also what expected demands are.

So it has come down now for the last three or four quarters, which we are pleased with. But we just haven't seen that yet. We need to be very comfortable that not only current demands but also future expected demands are going to come down. So hopefully it will be in the next few quarters.

JOHN STUMPF: John, an improving housing market sure is a good sign regarding that issue. It's not the only thing that influences it, but that is good news.

JOHN MCDONALD: Tim, one quick follow-up on the share count issue. We know that you know that shareholders are hoping to see the share count come down, and it hasn't yet. We know in 2013 your plan involves more buybacks.

So I guess the question is, does it also involve more issuance? Or do you hope to have the same issuance issue that you did last year, such that your net share count would come down this year given that you are doing more buybacks?

TIM SLOAN: Right. So, John, I certainly appreciate that share count is a big focus. Candidly, earnings per share is a bigger focus for us. We have been pleased to be able to grow that for the last 13 quarters.

I think that when you think about the fact that last year we repurchased 120 million shares the likelihood -- again, this is a function of our share price that we repurchase shares at -- the likelihood is that we will probably repurchase more shares than we did last year and probably repurchase more shares than we issue. And we will know in a year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Right.

TIM SLOAN: But again, our primary focus is going to be growing earnings per share. But make no mistake; our Capital Plan calls for an increase in total share repurchase dollars versus what we did last year, and we are going to be repurchasing our shares at a greater rate this year than last.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. One quick follow-up on something you said in January. I think you said that in January you hoped to grow net interest income dollars. Even though it is a tough environment and you've got some pressure on spreads and things like that, you're focused on the net interest income dollars, and you are having some earning asset growth.

Do you still -- I know in the first quarter you had day count pressuring the NII dollars. But do you still hope to grow that in 2013?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, we did. I think that when you look at net interest income we could have had the same conversation a year ago and had the same concerns, and they would have been absolutely valid. But last year we were able to grow our net interest income by over $0.5 billion; and our expectation is that we should be able to grow it this year.

Again, it is harder to see this quarter because of the two fewer days. But if you step back and look at the last three quarters, you can see that notwithstanding the decline in net interest margin, that the net interest income has more or less bottomed at about $10.6 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay. Thanks, Tim.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Just following up on the net interest income dollar question. As you think about the relationship of balance sheet growth and the NIM percent, do we get an acceleration in the balance sheet growth, or do we get less NIM pressure to drive those dollars higher? How would you envision that playing out?

TIM SLOAN: Well, recall that the primary driver for the decline in the net interest margin over -- just look over the last three years, 12 quarters. The decline has been 79 basis points. Almost three-quarters of that decline has been driven by the fact that deposits are growing.

Again, we view that as a very positive sign for the long-term growth of the Company. When you pull that out, that net differential is really the decline in overall margins. So my bet is that if we see further net interest margin decline it is probably more likely going to be driven by deposit growth than by margins.

But there is no question that the net interest margin in this interest rate environment, as the balance sheet reprices, continues to be under pressure. But again let me emphasize, we believe that we can grow net interest income just like we did last year, year-over-year, even in this environment.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then separately, the charge-offs came down sharply; and you commented both on the commercial piece and broadly speaking on the consumer. Is the level that we are at on the real estate related areas in the consumer, is this kind of a -- I don't want to say normal -- is this a clean level? Or did some of the upfronting of charge-offs in the second half of last year related to regulatory changes, did that impact these numbers at all?

TIM SLOAN: No; and I wouldn't describe it as upfronting. Clearly there was some OCC guidance that we had for a portion of the portfolio that we needed to address -- and others in the industry address this.

I would view this as the chargeoff level and the credit performance has just been terrific. And I don't believe that this is the bottom in terms of consumer loan losses.

Again, the commercial losses are a little bit different story. At 10 basis points it doesn't take a lot of change to increase those or even decrease them a little bit.

But in terms of consumer loan losses at 123 basis points, our guess is that -- assuming the economy continues to improve and assuming that we are going to continue to see an improvement in the residential housing market, which we both -- we think is going to happen -- we should continue to see a decline.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just a last clarification. You talked about the tax rate bouncing up a little bit. Any -- what number should we be using for the rest of the year?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I don't know what the number is going to be. We just wanted to make sure that you all didn't use the tax rate in the first quarter and then just annualize it. I think it will be closer to more historical levels that we have seen in other quarters or other years where we haven't had some tax benefit like we had in the fourth quarter.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So maybe 32% to 33% if I look at the last few years?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, that's not -- that is a reasonable range, Matt.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. You alluded to purchase mortgage market stepping up. But isn't the scale tough just given how much of your originations are refis right now? I mean, how so you -- I mean, I guess if we look at let's say projections for the industry, how should we think about your market share and what that would mean for originations for the balance of the year?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Moshe, I think you make a very fair point; and we didn't mean by pointing out that purchase money activity was up 31% year-over-year, that that in and of itself is going to take the place of the decline in refinance volume. Because as we have said and you have seen in our numbers that our total mortgage volumes are coming down. I think what we are seeing is that they are not coming down maybe as fast as some folks might have thought, because of the improvement in the purchase money market.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it.

TIM SLOAN: I think it is also factual that when you look at the market share that we have in the refinance market, it is higher because of the size of our servicing portfolio than it would be in the purchase money market. But again that is why we want to make sure we have more folks in the business being proactive with our customers, so that we can grow our purchase money activity.

John, I don't know if you want to comment.

JOHN STUMPF: The way we think about this -- we think this is a really important consumer product, and we have made investments in this business and have performed through a variety of cycles. We happen to think now, yes, no question, that there will be less refinancing. A lot of people have done their refinancing.

But even in that area the average rate in our servicing portfolio is just shy of 4.7%. The street rate is given, depending on the day, 100 basis points less than that. So there is still refinance volume.

But on the purchase money side we are going into the stronger selling season now. We have over 6,000 banking stores with bankers who are dealing with customers every day. We have 10,000-plus home mortgage consultants out with their relationships.

And we will get our share -- hopefully plus some. And if it is not there, we can adjust quickly because we have the experience, to bring our costs down and reflect that.

But remember, housing is improving every day. More people have more equity in their homes. Americans have not lost their emotional attachment to homeownership.

And it can't be for everyone, but we want to be there to help as many customers as we possibly can. We like this business a lot.

TIM SLOAN: Moshe, let me just give you a couple other numbers to put it in perspective. A year ago, our pipeline starting the second quarter was $79 billion; and now we're at $74 billion. And 35% of that $74 billion pipeline is purchase money activity. That is an increase from about 24% a year ago.

So it is having some impact, which we are very excited about.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Perfect, thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: In the overall market -- the overall purchase -- still it is low. I mean by historical standards. So normal market is a pretty good market for us.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Yes, two quick follow-ups. One is your correspondent share fell this quarter. And JPMorgan reported today, they are the number two player; theirs went up.

Could you talk about what your thought process is? And maybe related to the issue of whether you are thinking about selling either actual MSRs or a (technical difficulty) servicing strip, if that asset were to increase from here?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, the decline in share in the correspondent business -- there wasn't anything in particular going on. I think it is just a very competitive market.

But as it relates to the MSR you probably saw this week that we did sell some reverse mortgage MSR. That really -- I wouldn't describe that as a strategic change in terms of our thought about the overall MSR. That just reflects the fact that we got out of that business, originating those loans, a couple of years ago; and we thought it was prudent to continue to reduce our servicing activity in that business.

There has really been no change in our view of the MSR. It is still an important asset for the Company. From time to time we may decide to sell, but again I wouldn't read too much into the sale of the reverse mortgage MSR.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, how are you guys doing? I don't want to keep on harping on the mortgage; but we saw yesterday that HARP got extended for two years. I think you guys have said publicly that you think the bulk of your HARP has already been -- you already originate or refinance a bulk of your HARP.

Do you think that if there is a good, solid PR program from the White House to get people off the sidelines, do you think that would -- and (technical difficulty) two-year extension, do you think you could see another wave of HARP mortgages being done?

TIM SLOAN: Yet, I don't know if it will be another wave. Our HARP originations in the first quarter were 10%, which was down from the mid-teens that we saw last year. I think this is a positive.

The HARP program has been a very successful program. I think the numbers nationwide are over 2.2 million homeowners have been able to refinance via HARP; so it has been a successful program. I don't think it will be a new wave, but continuation is very good.

PAUL MILLER: Then a follow-up on the securities portfolio. Was that just being optimistic on the rates going up, because you feel rates are going to remain relatively flat? Or is this something when we see rates go up we could see the portfolio grow in that category?

TIM SLOAN: I think if we see rates go up from here you could see us being as active as we were in the first quarter. We had a fairly -- on a percentage basis and also absolute levels -- pretty sizable backup in the first quarter. If you recall there were some days when the 10-year was above 2.20% and MBS was very attractive.

And from our perspective, given the amount of liquidity that we have and given that we want to maintain a pretty steady duration and we don't want to take excessive credit risk, it just makes sense to take advantage of those opportunities. We are not going to deploy all of it in one day; but again, given our liquidity, to be able to deploy $17.8 billion in the quarter on an opportunistic basis was very good from our perspective.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Paul, as Tim mentioned, I think in his comments, this is really, we think, a strength for the Company, to have the kind of liquidity available. We may make risk-return decisions every day, and when we think it is favorable and in our shareholders' interest we will deploy that. And if we don't think the right risk-return ratio is there we are willing to pass, and we don't have to do something. But this is a source of strength.

PAUL MILLER: Does it surprise you guys a little bit, because I know it does me, where we are seeing the housing market start to pick up, we are seeing homebuilders building homes, but there is still really not a lot of loan growth being created. Do you see that changing over the next couple quarters?

TIM SLOAN: You mean loan growth for homebuilders or for consumers?

PAUL MILLER: No, just for overall economy. That is one of the areas of activity we are seeing, but it doesn't seem like to be materializing in the overall economy.

TIM SLOAN: Well, I wouldn't jump to any conclusions about loan growth in the industry in the first quarter. If you look at the HA data, for the last few years the first quarter tends to be a seasonally low quarter.

What I would do it -- and again this is just me -- I would take the first-quarter decline for the industry and also then add to that the fourth quarter -- that we saw last quarter -- increase; and probably average those together. Remember the fourth quarter of last year was extremely high because of some of the changes and decisions that folks were making because of the potential changes in taxes and the code and so on.

So again I think what we are seeing in the industry is steady loan growth if you average over the last few years at about 1-ish-% on a quarterly basis. We have been fortunate because we have been able to grow at a multiple of that.

JOHN STUMPF: If you look, Paul, at some of the drivers -- if you look at household formation, if you look at cost of financing, cost of housing, there is a lot of tailwinds, a lot of favorable attributes. Now, nobody can predict what is going to happen. But if anything today there is probably a shortage of housing on the market.

PAUL MILLER: Guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Just on your last comment, shortage of housing in the market, that is a pretty powerful statement. Is there any specific geographies you are seeing that in?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, it is not true in every market and in every price range. But when I'm out talking with realtors and customers the amount of supply, especially in the lower end or starter houses, there is not a lot of supply out there.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: Go ahead. No, I have nothing.

Betsy Graseck. All right, so then obviously that has some powerful implications for your business model over the next year or so, as long as we keep rates low. And I guess that is kind of my question. Do you feel like part of this housing improvement that we are seeing is a function of where rates are? Clearly at 3.7%, 3.3%, in that range that has got to be fueling part of the boom here.

To what degree are you building your business based on the current interest rate environment? To what extent -- how do you protect yourself for the Fed deciding to stop QE3?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, Betsy, I would say the housing market is as much driven by confidence and by about improvements in values as it is with rates. I don't know of many people who are on the sidelines and say -- I will only buy a house if the rate is 3.25%, and I won't buy at 4.25%. I think it is about jobs, about confidence, about feeling good about where things are going.

Surely rate is -- when you buy a house it is what you make, what the house costs, and what your financing costs are -- the big three. But housing is improving at different levels, but virtually everywhere that we see in the country.

TIM SLOAN: And then, Betsy, the second part of your question, which is related just to the interest rate risk and how do we protect ourselves, we are actually positioned very well over the medium and longer term to benefit from an increase in interest rates again, as long as it is not such a large increase that it negatively affects economic growth.

But we are positioned very well. And it is one of the reasons why we continue to maintain the level of liquidity that we have.

BETSY GRASECK: Great. Can I just follow up on one other thing?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure.

BETSY GRASECK: I think you mentioned earlier on that you are not planning on retaining any more of the conventional production as you have over the last couple of quarters. I guess I am just wondering how you get to that decision.

Gain on sale coming down over the next couple of quarters, I would think it would tip in favor of retaining versus securitizing. But I am sure you are thinking of a broader range of inputs than that. Maybe you can help us understand your logic.

TIM SLOAN: Sure. That's a good question. Recall that the primary driver for the reason why we wanted to hold some of our first mortgage production in the third and the fourth quarters of last year was because interest rates and investment alternatives, given the level of liquidity, were just very unattractive from our perspective. If you think about where rates were in almost all categories in the third quarter and the fourth quarter last year -- that is the primary driver, not necessarily the gain on sale margin.

So as we looked at the first quarter -- and we mentioned this last quarter -- we saw the opportunity to invest because rates seemed like they were backing up and we took advantage of that rather than hold our first mortgage production. So that is going to be the driver. It is investment alternatives, not gain on sale margins.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

TIM SLOAN: But certainly if, for whatever reason, rates would really rally from here and we could see a repeat of the third and the fourth quarter, we would reconsider holding some of the mortgages. Again that remains an option and that is another strength to the business model.

JOHN STUMPF: Correct. We don't preclude that.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay. Yes. Because you did get a backup obviously in rates and now rates have come back in. So you will be nimble is basically what you are saying.

TIM SLOAN: Correct. Nimble as we can be.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CREDIT AGRICOLE SECURITIES: Hi, back to net interest income, and you said that is a focus. But at least linked quarter it stunk. I know the day count, and you seem pretty confident that $10.6 billion is a bottom.

I am just trying to figure out what would make you so confident. Would it be anything to do with the accretable yield going forward, given better credit quality? The balance sheet repricing, maybe you only hurt 2 basis points, you feel better there?

Or is it really just you added all these securities opportunistically and that will play out for a full quarter; and we should see that in the second quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Mike, I am always careful not to disagree with you, but I wouldn't say that $10.4 billion of net interest income stunk. I mean it was down; but if you just added two extra days -- and that is an issue with the calendar -- it would have been $10.6 billion. We actually think in the environment when you look at the entire industry, that that was very good performance.

But having said that, I think that the answer to your second question is it is all of the above. We have consistently been able to grow our loans at a multiple of what the market is growing. That is number one.

Number two, we are going to continue to take advantage and redeploy or deploy our liquidity when we see rates back up like we did in the first quarter and we bought $17.8 billion worth of securities.

So again, we could've had the same conversation -- and I think we actually did about a year ago -- when we looked at where rates were and where loan growth was. We were coming -- the industry was coming off a season low, just like it was this quarter. And so our perspective is that we can continue; we can grow net interest income; and in the next quarter we will see if we were able to do it. But that is our goal.

MIKE MAYO: And of the benefit -- of the securities that you put on, was that mostly the latter part of the quarter or the early part? In other words, do we actually see it in the numbers yet?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, that's a good question, Mike. Recall that when we talked about our first-quarter earnings we gave some specific guidance that we had purchased some MBS at the end of December when rates backed up a fair amount. And then you saw a rally again; they backed up again in early January, and we were purchasers.

Then they kind of went back and forth a bit, and then we saw a nice backup about a month or so ago and so we were pretty active. Which is why the average was less than what the total purchases were. So you are going to see more of the benefit of those purchases as we go through this quarter.

MIKE MAYO: Got it. Then the second question relates to the efficiency target. You are on the upper end of your target range. There is the article today talking about your new mini-branches, and I know you have talked about that in the past. Now it seems like the execution phase.

Can you just give some sense of how many of your 6,000 branches might go to this mini form, if it is correct that they cost half as much? And any other color you can give.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. In fact, Mike, I was in Washington this last week and went by and actually toured our first neighborhood store. You would think it was a branch. It was a terrific combination of using technology and convenience both for hours and after hours. So it really is a dual purpose that way.

Our view around distribution is that it is more of a distribution community where you have stores in ATMs and online and mobile and phones all working together. And that is part of the magic of how we deepen cross-sell and how we build customer loyalty.

We don't have a plan per se that says so many of the neighborhood versus so many of traditional. But they all work. Because even our Millennial customers who are much more skewed towards self-service and mobile devices still want and need stores. And in some places you can't get a 3,000 or 4,000 square foot space, where 1,000 square feet works just as well, in fact better.

So look for us to do more. It is a test and learn kind of mode, and it is going to help us grow and deepen relationships.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Hey, question focuses on the operating expenses. You have talked about the seasonal impact. If I add those up it is about $750 million in that number related to the seasonal uptick in first quarter. That starts to roll out as you move to the next quarter.

But you've mentioned the merit increase. I didn't know how much, if you can just give us some proportion of the $750 million that might get used up in the merit increase as you go to the second quarter.

TIM SLOAN: Oh, it could be a few hundred million dollars, Marty. I think that -- I wouldn't take that $750 million and just deduct it and say that is what is going to be the second quarter.

We are going to have an impact from merit. I think we're also going to continue to invest in both people as well as technology and products. So we want to continue to grow the franchise, so I wouldn't just deduct that and call that our expenses for the second quarter.

MARTY MOSBY: Then when you look at the net charge-off rate dropping as significantly as it did, our provision number that you came through with was pretty consistent with what we were expecting. But the composition was so different in a sense of net charge-offs being lower and release of or recapture of loan-loss allowance being a lot less.

Did the lower net charge-offs and improvement in non-performers eventually start bleeding through in the recapture? Or how do you see that playing out in the sense of the magnitude going forward?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think you make a fair point; and that is one of the reasons why we reiterated that we do expect in the future to continue to see reserve releases, absent some big deterioration in the economy. So our expectation is that we will see more releases, Marty.

Again, it is going to be a function of the improvement in credit; and we have seen that now consistently. I think one of the important things to remember is that our reserve release is a relatively small part of our total earnings. I think it is less than 5% this quarter.

MARTY MOSBY: Exactly. Lastly I just wanted to ask you about a $74 billion pipeline. Typically seasonally there is a swoon in applications and activity, and that starts to pick back up as we get into spring and summer. That would be a pull through. You could see originations still hovering in the $100 billion range, given your starting point is already three-fourths of the way there for the quarter. Just thought I would ask about that, your thoughts there.

TIM SLOAN: Well, Marty, I think you are correct in that the pipeline was very strong. It was about what we saw a year ago at this time. Again I think that the complexion of the pipeline is a little bit different because a bigger percentage relates to purchase money activity.

I don't know what the originations are going to be for the quarter. I think the other thing to remember -- and I referred to it but probably could've been a little bit clearer. And that is that we have the appropriate level of staffing to take advantage of opportunities out there in the mortgage business. That has allowed us to reduce the application-to-close period from about 90 days to 60 days.

So you can't really see that in the numbers, but that would portend some pretty good origination activity. But in terms of what the number is going to be, we don't know for sure.

MARTY MOSBY: Appreciate it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Greg Ketron, UBS.

GREG KETRON, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Tim, a question on servicing. I know you've touched on this a number of different ways. But when you think about servicing going forward and where it is valued today at around 70 basis points if you just look at the residential side of it, and anticipate the rates do drift higher, you've got a slowdown in prepayment speeds, potentially you could see a pretty sizable write-up in MSR valuations -- $5 billion, $6 billion if we got back to 100 to 110 basis points ultimately.

Would it be your anticipation that you would recognize most of that or hedge that away as that develops? Could that be a future source of income in terms of running the balance, the mortgage model?

TIM SLOAN: It certainly could. I don't know if I would necessarily agree with the $5 billion to $6 billion; but certainly we could see an increase in value of the servicing asset as rates go up.

I'd also just want to make clear that as housing values go up that actually -- when you think about modeling that out that also potentially has a negative impact on the servicing value, because it is more likely that our customers could refinance as valuations go up. So there is a little bit of a put and take there.

But there is no question that one of the benefits of the balanced model is that when you've got a servicing asset and rates go up it becomes more valuable. So that could be a source of earnings in the future.

GREG KETRON: Okay. That is something you wouldn't necessarily hedge away, given the fact that you were in the balanced model?

TIM SLOAN: Well, we currently -- well, we want to make sure that we have got the mortgage servicing asset appropriately hedged, and we are not going to speculate on interest rates in terms of how we hedge that asset, because we could just as well be right as wrong. So my guess is that we will get some benefit, but it is not as if we are going to make a decision one morning to completely unhedge the portfolio because we think -- or the asset because we think that rates are going to go up. That would be a very, very bad decision.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, let me just reiterate what Tim said here. Part of our balanced model is we don't speculate. We don't try to speculate in this business around where we think interest rates are going to go.

We could've been sitting here a year ago and said they have to be going up, and actually they went down. So the balanced model is more around when rates are higher we have more value in the servicing asset, and when rates are lower we tend to do more gain on sale with production.

So, no. Surely those two are related to one another, but we are not in the business of speculating where rates -- or taking a view on rates and then adjusting the hedge accordingly.

GREG KETRON: Okay, great. Then, John, a question for you. At the Investor Day last year you had spent time talking about the Wachovia franchise, the Eastern US, and how you had the opportunity there. As you have achieved the record earnings and deposit growth and the revenues in areas such as Wealth Management, can you give us some color on how that is progressing? What kind of leverage you are receiving out of the Wachovia franchise at this point and maybe percentage of the way through that optimization.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure, well first of all, I want to tip my hat to all the team members who helped make that merger the best one I have been around. And it was the largest, of course, in US bank history.

It is so rewarding to see the activity happening in the East with adding stores, adding team members in stores. In fact if you look at productivity numbers -- sales per day, referrals, cross-sell -- the gap is closing rapidly. In fact, some the best innovations and ideas we are getting now for future growth come from our newest team members.

In fact it is hard to distinguish East from West anymore. It is quite pluralistic in its performance.

So it is hard for me to give a percentage. I think we can get better across the franchise. But there is -- I just couldn't be happier with it.

If I had to pick a percentage I would say well into the final quartile of performance closing. It has just been that good. And we continue to add people there, incidentally.

GREG KETRON: Okay. Great. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, KBW.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Good morning, John. I had a follow-up question on the MSR. When you look at the MSR and the black box accounting that goes around it, it certainly looks that from a historical perspective it is undervalued. I am not sure if we get back to the [150] level of loan service for others back in 2006. But it certainly looks undervalued relative to the historical perspective.

I know you have looked at it as a natural hedge or a partial hedge to production activity in a balanced approach. But what if that block box accounting creates a timing difference between when that asset is written up and when the production and gain on sale starts to fall?

If that occurs, would you consider more, I guess, strategic sales of MSRs rather than the nonstrategic sale of the reverse mortgage portfolio you just did, in order to harvest the gains that you can't harvest from an accounting perspective?

TIM SLOAN: So, Chris, let me just push back a little bit, in that we don't consider the accounting in and around the MSR as black box accounting. We follow generally accepted accounting principles that are reviewed both internally and externally, and we think they are very sound. I know there are some commentators that are out there that get confused by generally accepted accounting principles and think that they are hard to follow, but they are not.

Having said that, I think the fundamental part of your question is that -- when we look at the MSR, it is a -- or step back for a minute. When we look at the servicing business it is a really good business. The servicing business has been so valuable for us over the last few years, but in particular it has been very valuable over the last couple of years because of the fact that it has put us in position to be able to originate as many refinance opportunities as we have and which has just been terrific.

The capital implications of the MSR given the new Basel III capital rules makes that -- creates an overlay over the asset itself, in that it could be in certain circumstances a potential deduct to capital levels. That is just something that we need to take into consideration, and it is something we think a lot about.

As we have said, from time to time it may make sense to consider selling some of the MSR. We have sold [s-deck] servicing in the past. We sold the reverse mortgage, part of the reverse mortgage MSR last week, which we were pleased with. So that could happen from time to time.

But it doesn't change our view that the servicing business is a very important business for the Company and is very valuable at all times, but in particular like the period we have been through.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thanks, Tim. I wasn't suggesting that you're performing the black box accounting. I just meant that -- the point being is that with the yield on that portfolio being as low as it is, probably has never been lower, that the inherent value of that asset over time is certainly going to be higher than what is on the balance sheet today.

TIM SLOAN: Oh, completely agree --

JOHN STUMPF: I agree.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I hope you didn't take my question the wrong way. Okay. Thank you very --

TIM SLOAN: No, I just wanted to clarify, that's all.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Autonomous Research.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, AUTONOMOUS RESEARCH: Just on the gain on sale outlook, I recognize correspondent is a lower gain on sale than retail. But would you expect them to come down by about the same magnitude over the course of the cycle, or is one channel out likely to outperform the other?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, I think if you have looked at the gain on sale historically it has been all over the place, on a comparative basis, between the two channels. My best guess is they will probably come down at about the same level. But I don't know for sure.

BRIAN FORAN: Got it. Then just one follow-up on the general comments about housing improvement. When we look at the Pick-a-Pay portfolio and where it is marked in the accretion, is there any kind of background you can give us on the home price assumptions embedded in that?

Or just more generally if your positive view of housing comes to fruition, would the Pick-a-Pay portfolio perform based on the current scheduled accretion, or would that represent upside to the current schedule of accretion?

TIM SLOAN: I think it represents some upside. I don't know -- and we were very clear when we updated the amount of non-accretable -- or brought non-accretable to accretable and updated the estimate of cash flows last year in the third quarter that if we continued to see an improvement in not only the housing market but also in terms of the performance of the underlying asset, because that is a very important part of the valuation, that we could see some upside.

That didn't happen this quarter. But given the continued improvement it certainly could over the next few quarters.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. In fact as I mentioned in my comments, we have a positive view, surely in the near-term outlook, about steady gains, gains in home sales, building activity, and price depreciation. We are seeing that in most of the markets or frankly the lion's share of the markets.

And when that happens, good things happen here on all things related to real estate. It is better for our home-equity portfolio, for our first mortgage portfolio, it is better for production activity in the mortgage companies. So surely things are improving.

BRIAN FORAN: Lastly, just if I read it right, I think there was a sale of some of the PCI loans and that, I guess, pulled forward some of the accretion. With a rising market would you expect to continue to sell some of the PCI loans? Or was that just a one-off?

JOHN STUMPF: We will look at that opportunistically. We had a $150 million gain from that, and that was -- and if we find opportunities we surely will do what we think makes most sense for our portfolio and for our stockholder.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I think that just to reinforce that we marked this portfolio four years ago and we just could not be more pleased with the performance. And the expectations will change over time, but if there is an opportunity to pull through some of that, our forecasted accretion, we are going to go ahead and do that.

BRIAN FORAN: Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks a lot for taking my question. Good morning. I just wanted to ask a bigger-picture expense question. A couple of the pieces have been asked.

But Tim, you mentioned that expenses are still too high. We know about the seasonality that can happen from first to second, and we know you will make adjustments against the mortgage business. So what I wanted to try to understand is when you say that expenses are still too high, what can you do to work on that underneath? How much from Project Compass is there to still just recognize?

And then what areas are you actually investing in, and what is the magnitude of that investment, versus what you can do to control things otherwise?

TIM SLOAN: Again, I think that the focus of the Company is to improve our expense efficiency. So when I say and we say that expenses are too high given the current level of revenue, we think that we can improve our efficiency, which is why we have that range of 55% to 59%. There is no one magic change that we can make, that if we can just get through a certain project that it will get us down to 55%. It is really a function of lots of projects all around the Company.

It is improving the efficiency of our corporate properties and all of our square footage. It is improving -- it is using technology to reduce costs in our businesses; so sometimes there is some investment related to that. It is continuing to make sure that our folks are all in the appropriate locations.

And it is little things. There is literally hundreds of projects going on right now in the Company such that we are focused on reducing costs. So I would love to be able to give you two big items, but it is just not really the way it works now that we are done with the integration.

But I would also reinforce that apart and separate from the proactive projects that we have, the environmental costs are continuing to come down. So that we see with an improving economy, particularly an improving residential mortgage business, that we could continue improvement in our environmental costs apart and separate from anything else we are doing internally. John, I don't know if you want to --?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I would add to that that we are making investments, and we want to continue to make those investments. And we won't be, as I said before, slavish to anything here.

Because for example, we are doing wonderful, innovative things to help customers on the things mobile and tablet-wise. We just talked a few minutes ago about our neighborhood store. We are making investments, frankly, in compliance and governance, all kinds of different things.

On the other hand some things, just because you did it that way for 20 years doesn't mean you need to do it for the next 20 years. And we are finding different ways to improve customer service, customer loyalty, deepening relationships, at the same time getting rid of expenses that don't add value.

Tim mentioned a few seconds ago just space. Four years ago we had about 115 million or 116 million square feet; now we are down to 95 million square feet or 98 million. Something -- it is down 10%, 12%. And yet we have more people, more customers, more products, more services, and I think that is the magic here, to continue to invest.

But we do all agree we can still do more. And this is a bottoms-up exercise, and it is just part of doing business. There is no destination here. This is a journey.

KEN USDIN: And then -- thanks for that color. This is the last offset, adjunct to that is then just -- a lot of the things that you just mentioned, John, are very much about deepening relationships with customers, improving the experience. Are there any parts of the investment cycle that are now also paying off on a clear incremental revenue side? Because I think that is part of the investment part of the process that people also want to appreciate, too.

What are the investments that you are making that are also -- you are actively seeing an improved -- getting operating leverage off of?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. For example, adding more bankers in stores and getting referrals to the mortgage company. Having ATMs that you give you paperless receipts. Taking paper out of stores and not having to have as many Brinks pickups. The way people can now buy products and services on their mobile devices and other self-service activities.

It is a number of things that help reinforce this when, where, and how people want to be serviced. So it's -- there is actually a lot of innovation going on in the industry. More of it happens to be within creating this distribution community, whether it be on the small business, large business, consumer side, as opposed to a different whizbang kind of product. It is much more about the overall service and availability.

KEN USDIN: Got it. Then last tiny thing, just a follow-up to Brian's last question. When you mentioned the potential for non-accretable difference to be moved back into accretable yield, is any of that potential in your outlook for improving NII this year?

TIM SLOAN: No, not really. Because recall that in the third quarter of last year when we made the adjustment and we moved some of the non-accretable to accretable and also increased our expectation of cash flows, even though when you total it up it was over $4 billion in total, because the average life of the underlying loans is 12 or plus years the incremental increase in terms of net interest income or net interest margin in a given quarter is actually relatively small.

It will have some impact. But it is not a primary driver for why we think net interest income can go up in this environment.

KEN USDIN: Yes, perfect. Understood. Thanks, guys.

TIM SLOAN: Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: And thanks again. We ran over a little time here, but thank you for your interest in Wells Fargo, for your questions. We are always available to you and we will see you next quarter at the same time. Thanks again.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit | ifinal : Financial Services
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interviews | ntra : Transcripts | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130419e94c000m9
  


 HD
 Q4  2012 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
17,680 words
   PD
11 January 2013
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©013 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, Tim Sloan, will review fourth-quarter and full-year results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Happy New Year, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. We're excited to share our strong results for the quarter and for the year.

We just completed our 12th consecutive quarter of EPS growth with record quarterly earnings in the fourth quarter of $5.1 billion, up 24% from a year ago. These strong quarterly results are just part of an outstanding year of achievement for Wells Fargo. Let me start by highlighting all that was accomplished during 2012.

We earned a record $18.9 billion in 2012, up 19% from 2011, and we also grew earnings per share by 19%. We generated 6% revenue growth and pretax, pre-provision profit increased by 13%. We improved our efficiency ratio by 250 basis points to 58.5% for the year.

We grew total loans by $30 billion, up 4%, while reducing our liquidating portfolio by approximately $18 billion. Our liquidating portfolio is now half the size it was four years ago at the time of the Wachovia merger.

We now have over $1 trillion of deposits, up 9% from a year ago. Credit quality continued to improve with charge-offs down $2.3 billion. We achieved record Retail Banking cross-sell of over six products per household.

We grew return on assets by 16 basis points and increased return on equity by 102 basis points. We increased capital levels, growing our estimated Tier 1 common equity under Basel III to 8.18%. We increased our dividend by 83% and repurchased approximately 120 million shares of common stock.

In addition to these financial metrics, we also continued to grow organically and through acquisition, purchasing loan portfolios and several businesses which not only brought new customers to Wells Fargo, but allow us to better meet the financial needs of all of our customers. The housing market began a steady rebound during 2012. While many measures of activity and prices remained low by historical standards and a complete recovery will still take some time, there is no doubt that a corner was turned, which is a real positive for our economy and for Wells Fargo. We originated $524 billion in residential mortgages in 2012, helping over 2 million homeowners refinance or purchase a new home.

Our industry, our regulators, and our elected officials made progress this past year in helping to restore some stability to the housing market. Early in the year, we finalized an agreement with the AGs and federal agencies regarding mortgage servicing, foreclosure, and origination issues. We also reached a settlement with the Department of Justice regarding origination practices, and as we just announced, we reached a settlement associated with Independent Foreclosure Reviews which will end the large quarterly expenses associated with the consent order.

And regarding the draft of the qualified mortgage definition that was just published yesterday, we are still reviewing the details, but so far, it looks like the CFPB issued a rule that should benefit consumers across America by providing strong protection while also ensuring that credit is available. By putting these issues behind us, we can focus more of our resources on serving our customers and creating long-term franchise value.

We generated strong results in 2012, even with regulatory changes and an uncertain economic and political environment. As we start the new year, we believe we will benefit from some signs of growth that we are seeing in the economy. Jobs are being created and home prices are increasing.

However, there is still a lot of work that needs to be done. The last-minute agreement that averted the fiscal cliff was a good step, but it did not fix our country's long-term problems. We need to work on both sides of the equation -- spending reductions and revenue increases.

We need to increase clarity, certainty, and confidence, and we can do this if the private and public sectors work together with a unified focus on strengthening our nation's financial and economic future. Uncertainty is the enemy of business and we simply cannot afford that today.

We know our customers, especially in the small and middle market segments, need certainty and clarity. They have cash and the desire to grow. They need confidence so they can feel encouraged to invest and hire again.

With all that we accomplished last year, I believe Wells Fargo has never been better positioned and I am very optimistic about the year ahead. Wells Fargo is over 160 years old and we continue to manage our company for the long term. The vision that has guided us for decades, meeting our customers' financial needs, will continue to drive our growth in the year ahead.

Thank you again for joining us today. Now, Tim Sloan, our Chief Financial Officer, will provide more details on our financial results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the presentation including the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on page two, and then John and I will take your questions.

As John mentioned, Wells Fargo had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $5.1 billion, up 24% from a year ago. Earnings per share were a record $0.91, up 25% from the fourth quarter of last year. We have now achieved 12 consecutive quarters of earnings per share growth and the seventh consecutive quarters of record EPS.

Total revenue of $21.9 billion was up 7% from a year ago. We grew revenue on a year-over-year basis every quarter in 2012. We also generated positive operating leverage.

Pretax, pre-provision profit increased 12% from a year ago and we continued to have strong credit performance. We generated strong deposit and loan growth. Our ROA was 1.46%, up 21 basis points from a year ago, and our ROE was 13.35%, up 138 basis points from a year ago.

Our capital levels remain strong with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III growing to 8.18%.

As you can see on page three, our fourth-quarter results built on the strong performance we achieved throughout the year. As John highlighted, and as the charts on this slide demonstrate, we had an outstanding year of growth across a variety of measures. Revenues grew by 6%, net income grew by 19%, we had solid growth in loans, and strong deposit growth. Our ROA was 1.41% for the year and ROE was 12.95%.

We are in a much better position today than we were a year ago and we look forward to taking advantage of all of the opportunities ahead of us.

Our continued strong quarterly and annual performance reflected the benefit of our customer-focused business model and our diversified sources of growth. The combination of our scale and our level of diversification is a significant advantage for our company.

Before I review the drivers of our results this quarter, let me spend some time discussing some noteworthy items that impacted our results as highlighted on slide five. Taken together, these items had little impact on our bottom line, but they did cause some unevenness in some of our line items.

Our gains on Equity Investments this quarter totaled $715 million. Our private equity business has been a core part of Wells Fargo for a long time, and by its very nature, results in this business can vary. The results in the fourth quarter were $393 million higher than the previous seven-quarter average, reflecting strength in our private equity business including the gain on the sale of Becker Underwood. The $393 million of above average equity gains equates to $0.05 of EPS.

Our total operating losses this quarter reflected $644 million of incremental accrual to fully reserve for or costs associated with the Independent Foreclosure Review Settlement that was announced earlier this week and additional remediation-related costs. This accrual reduced EPS by $0.09.

We contributed $250 million to the Wells Fargo Foundation, reducing EPS by $0.03, continuing our commitment of giving back to the communities that we serve. Finally, our incoming tax expense in the quarter included a $332 million benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down Wachovia life insurance investment which reduced our fourth-quarter effective tax rate to 27.4%. This benefited EPS by $0.06 a share.

Let me briefly highlight the impact of the Independent Foreclosure Review Settlement. Our portion of the cash settlement was $766 million, and as I just mentioned, our operating losses this quarter reflected $644 million to fully reserve for this settlement and additional remediation-related costs. We also committed to an additional $1.2 billion for foreclosure prevention actions, which will not result in any additional charges since it is covered through our existing allowance and PCI non-accretable difference.

We are pleased to have the high cost of complying with the consent order behind us, which, when taking into account both the internal and external costs, resulted in approximately $125 million in quarterly expenses in 2012.

Let me comment on some of our key drivers this quarter which I will discuss in more detail later in my remarks. Our balance sheet growth accelerated in the fourth quarter with solid growth in loans and continued strong deposit growth. Our short-term investments in fed funds sold balances increased by $36.9 billion and we grew our AFS portfolio by $5.8 billion, including agency MBS purchases that occurred late in the quarter as rates rose and yields became more attractive. Our credit quality also continued to improve in the fourth quarter as it did throughout 2012.

Turning to the income statement on page eight, we generated robust revenue in the fourth quarter reflecting strong non-interest income growth across our businesses and stable net interest income. The increase in non-interest expense was entirely driven by the higher operating losses and the foundation contribution that I highlighted earlier.

Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.

As shown on page nine, period-end loans were up $30 billion from the fourth quarter of 2011 and up $17 billion from the third quarter of this year. This is the largest linked-quarter increase over the past four years.

Commercial loans grew $8.7 billion in the quarter. This growth reflected strong activity in a number of businesses -- middle-market lending, Commercial Real Estate, Asset Backed Finance, and Corporate Banking. Consumer loans increased by $8.3 billion with growth in first mortgage, auto, credit card, and private student lending. This growth benefited from the retention of $9.7 billion of new conforming fixed rate production similar to last quarter.

With the recent increase in rates providing better investment opportunities, we currently do not plan to retain any -- retain additional first-quarter production. We do expect to hold an additional $2 billion to $3 billion of our fourth-quarter originations that we will fund this month. This demonstrates the flexibility of our diversified model.

Our liquidating portfolio continued to shrink, declining $17.8 billion from a year ago and down $4.1 billion in the fourth quarter. We continue to have strong deposit growth in the fourth quarter with average deposits up $64 billion from a year ago and up $29.6 billion from the third quarter with growth across our franchise.

We also continued to lower our deposit costs with average deposit costs down 16 basis points in the fourth quarter, down 2 basis points from the third quarter, and down 6 basis points from a year ago. Our ability to continue to grow deposits while reducing costs has been a real strength of our franchise.

While this strong deposit growth continued to put pressure on our margin, it is important to note that given most of this growth was in non-interest-bearing deposits, this deposit growth has been essentially neutral to our net interest income. The increased deposits provide us with many opportunities to meet other financial needs of our deposit customers, and if the loan demand we had in the fourth quarter continues, we can better redeploy our strong deposit growth to fund loan growth.

As shown on page 11, tax equivalent net interest income was essentially flat from the third quarter with 3% growth in average earning assets. The 10 basis point linked-quarter decline in the net interest margin was driven by three primary factors.

First, our strong deposit growth caused cash and short-term investments to increase reducing the margin by 8 basis points. Second, 5 basis points of the margin pressure was driven by the ongoing repricing of the balance sheet in the current low rate environment and the fact that we were cautious in our reinvestment activity. However, as rates rose late in the fourth quarter, we did repurchase approximately $5 billion of agency mortgage-backed securities, and as rates rose again last week, we purchased another $5 billion of agency MBS.

These declines were partially offset by the benefit of 3 basis points of higher variable income.

As you have heard me say frequently, our focus is on growing net interest income over time. The chart at the bottom of this page shows that even though the net interest margin declined 18 basis points in 2012 compared with 2011, we were able to grow net interest income by $472 million. Growing our net interest income remains our focus and we believe we can continue to generate growth even in this low rate environment.

Non-interest income increased 16% from a year ago and was up $754 million, or 7%, from the third quarter. This growth was broad based and included strong equity gains, as I highlighted earlier, but also reflected strong business momentum across the Company with deposit service charges up 3% due to product pricing changes. Trust and investment fees were up 8% primarily due to stronger Investment Banking and Retail Brokerage asset-based fees, and other fees were up 9% on higher Investment Banking advisory activity.

Mortgage banking revenue increased $261 million, or 9%, from the third quarter with higher servicing and origination fees. Net servicing income was up $53 million, reflecting higher net MSR head results which were partially offset by higher unreimbursed foreclosure costs.

Mortgage gain on sale revenue was up $208 million from the third quarter, despite approximately $340 million in foregone revenue from [retaining] (company corrected following the conference call) $9.7 billion of conforming mortgage loans which I had mentioned earlier. The revenue impact was higher this quarter than last quarter as margins widened overall and more of our retained production came from the retail channel which is a wider margin business.

Third-quarter results included a $379 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, which was $83 million lower than the third quarter. Mortgage originations were $125 billion in the fourth quarter, down $14 billion from the third quarter, reflecting normal seasonality and the elimination of our wholesale channel which originated $8 billion of loans in the third quarter.

12% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP. The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was $81 billion, up 13% from a year ago, and we would expect to benefit from seasonally stronger applications in the first quarter.

Turning to expenses on page 13. Fourth-quarter expenses increased $784 million from the third quarter due to the higher operating losses from the Independent Foreclosure Review Settlement and the $250 million foundation contribution that I had mentioned earlier on the call.

Even with these items, our expense efficiency ratio of 58.8% was within our targeted range of 55% to 59%. And if you adjust for our noteworthy revenue and expense items this quarter, our ratio was actually at the lower end of this range. However, we believe expenses will remain elevated in the first quarter due to seasonally higher personnel expenses as we have every year.

Our efficiency ratio in the fourth quarter was 190 basis points lower than a year ago. While we have made progress in improving our efficiency, we believe our expenses are still too high and we will continue to focus on opportunities to reduce expenses that do not impact our ability to grow revenue.

For example, since 2008 we have reduced the size of our overall real estate occupancy portfolio by over 16 million square feet net of growth. Over 4.5 million square feet of this reduction occurred in 2012. We continue to see opportunities to reposition our real estate holdings in the next few years and we are experiencing more than 20% higher efficiency in the construction of all new office projects using improved design and build out standards.

When looking at our results it is also important to consider that some of our costs are elevated because of the current environment. We highlight some of these costs on slide 14. They totaled approximately $790 million in the fourth quarter alone.

The OCC consent order added approximately $125 million of expenses in the fourth quarter and roughly $500 million of total expenses during 2012. The settlement that was reached earlier this week with our regulators will allow us to significantly reduce both the external and internal costs in the first quarter and fully eliminate these costs by the second quarter.

In the fourth quarter, we had $221 million of foreclosed asset expense which totaled $1.1 billion for the full year. The improvement in the housing market will reduce these expenses over time.

We also have higher cost of reduced mortgage banking revenue. We added $313 million in the fourth quarter and $1.7 billion during 2012 to our repurchase reserve not related to current originations.

Servicing fees were reduced by $127 million in the fourth quarter and $677 million during 2012 to reflect higher cost of service and unreimbursed foreclosure costs as foreclosure timelines continued to extend. In addition, we had a total of $2.2 billion of operating losses in 2012, almost $1 billion higher than the amount we had in 2011 as we resolved many significant matters related to our mortgage business.

Turning to our segment results starting on page 15, Community Banking earned $2.9 billion in the fourth quarter, up 14% from a year ago and up 5% from the third quarter. Retail Banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.05 products per household, up from 5.93 a year ago. Our credit card business continues to grow with credit card balances up 4% linked quarter to a record $24.6 billion, with a record $12.6 billion of purchased dollar volume in the fourth quarter. This growth reflects seasonal holiday spending and strong account growth. New consumer credit card accounts grew 11% from the fourth quarter of 2011 with household penetration increasing to 33%, up from 29% a year ago.

We remain focused on meeting the needs of our small business customers with business checking accounts up 3.7% from a year ago. And we extended $16 billion of net new loan commitments to small businesses across the US in 2012, up over 30% from a year ago.

Wholesale Banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the fourth quarter, up 24% from a year ago and up 2% from the third quarter. Wholesale Banking continued to have solid deposit growth, and as I mentioned earlier, they also had strong loan growth that was broadly diversified and gained momentum late in the quarter with period-end balances increasing $8 billion, or 3%, from the third quarter. Wholesale Banking has generated nine consecutive quarters of loan growth.

In addition to meeting the financing needs of our commercial customers, we continue to better serve all of their financial needs as reflected in Wholesale Banking cross-sell growing to 6.8 products, up from 6.5 products a year ago. We have seen better penetration across our diversified product line, including strong growth in investment banking with investment banking fees from commercial and corporate banking customers up 30% in 2012 versus 2011 and strong sales of our industry-leading Treasury Management products, including increasing Treasury Management revenue by 13% in the fourth quarter compared to a year ago.

Additionally, commercial credit card purchase volume increased 25% in the fourth quarter from a year ago, reflecting strong account growth and increased usage among existing customers.

Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement earned a record $351 million, up 4% from the third quarter and up 13% from a year ago. The year-over-year growth was especially strong considering that fourth quarter 2011 included a $153 million gain on the sale of H.D. Vest.

Earnings continue to benefit from higher asset base fees with WBR client assets up 7% from a year ago, including strong growth in average core deposits of 6% and Retail Brokerage managed account assets up $50 billion, or 20%, driven by strong net flows and market performance. In addition, WBR continued to effectively partner with Retail Banking to meet all the financial needs of our customers increasing cross-sell to 10.27 products per household, up from 10.05 a year ago.

Turning to credit quality on page 18, trends continued to show improvement with fourth-quarter net charge-offs at 1.05% of average loans. Net charge-offs were impacted by the completion of the implementation of the regulatory guidance issued by the OCC at the end of the third quarter, which increased our net charge-offs by $321 million in the fourth quarter. Excluding this impact, net charge-offs were 89 basis points of average loans, 47 basis points lower than a year ago.

Reflecting continued improved credit performance and also incorporating estimated losses attributable to Hurricane Sandy, we released $250 million in loan loss reserves in the fourth quarter. Absent a significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect further reserve releases in 2013 but at a lower level than in 2012.

Non-performing assets decreased $744 million from the third quarter and were down $1.5 billion from a year ago. Loans 90 days or more past due decreased $57 million from the third quarter and were down $613 million from a year ago. Early stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also declined from third quarter a year ago.

Our servicing portfolio continued to perform better than the industry with our delinquency and foreclosure rate over 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recent publicly available data. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.04% in the fourth quarter, down from 7.96% a year ago.

We added $379 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter, down $83 million from the third quarter. Our repurchase reserve balance increased to $2.2 billion, up 9% from the third quarter. Our repurchase reserve incorporates current demand levels, considers all vintages, and anticipates probable future expected demands.

The unpaid principal balance of outstanding repurchase demands were down 3% from the third quarter, reflecting a lower level of new demands from both the GSEs and private investors.

As shown on page 21, our capital levels continued to increase with our Tier 1 common equity ratio growing to 10.12%, up 66 basis points from a year ago and up 20 basis points from the third quarter. Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals increased to 8.18% in the fourth quarter.

We purchased 42 million shares in the fourth quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 5.9 million shares that is expected to settle in the first quarter. During 2012, we purchased a total of approximately 120 million shares at an average price of $32.35.

We remain committed to returning more capital to our shareholders. Our 2013 capital plan that we submitted to our regulators last week requests an increase in capital distribution to shareholders as compared to our 2012 plan. But, remember, our request is subject to Fed review and non-objection.

As I have highlighted, 2012 was an outstanding year for Wells Fargo. We generated growth throughout our businesses, we reduced risk, including lower credit losses, and we increased our returns. However, we are even more optimistic about all the opportunities that we have in 2013 to continue to benefit from our business momentum and slowly improving economy.

We remain focused on reducing expenses and we believe we have further opportunities to improve our efficiency ratio and we should benefit from reduced environmental costs in 2013. We are optimistic that loan growth can continue in 2013 and we believe we will be able to grow net interest income even if rates remain low. We have opportunities throughout our consumer and commercial businesses to continue to grow market share and increase cross-sell.

And now I will open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Tim, was wondering on the share count, in 2012 the share count was flat despite about $4 billion in share repurchases. Just kind of wondering, what is the strategy with regard to share count? Is it to just offset -- use buybacks to offset employee issuance or to really steadily reduce the net shares outstanding?

TIM SLOAN: Well, you're absolutely right, John. This last year in terms of our total purchases that is what we were able to accomplish, to keep shares about flat. We are hopeful that over time as we continue to return more capital to shareholders that we will have the ability to increase the amount of shares that we can repurchase, but that is subject to the capital plan that we just submitted.

JOHN MCDONALD: Sure, sure.

TIM SLOAN: So over the long term we would like to do better than what we did this year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. In terms of the gross issuance, was there anything unusually high about your issuance this year, or was 2012 kind of a normal year for employee issuance?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, I would say it was a relatively normal year. As you know, having our team members receive some of their compensation based upon the shares is really important to make sure that the team members and shareholders are very aligned in terms of the long-term growth of the Company.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then on expenses, should the look-back expenses start to come out immediately? Beginning in the first quarter those are gone?

TIM SLOAN: I wouldn't assume that they would be completely gone in the first quarter. There is going to be some clean up this month and maybe trailing into next. They will clearly come down materially. I don't know what the exact number is going to be. They will be completely out of the run rate in the second quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And on the mortgage side, as originations come down, if that happens in 2013, how quickly can the mortgage expenses come out?

TIM SLOAN: Well, we've got some good track record in doing that. Our mortgage folks have seen cycles before. You saw what we were able to accomplish in 2011 in the second quarter and then also in 2010. There is a bit of a lag, so I would say there is about a 60- to 90-day lag, so call it a one-quarter lag, but we can move pretty quickly.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then one thing on the margin. On the 5 basis point of pressure that you attributed to rates and spreads coming down, should we assume that that pace continues for that piece? There is obviously lots of moving parts in the net interest margin, but for that piece of it does that hold at kind of 5 basis point pressure?

TIM SLOAN: Boy, John, I wish I could give you a guarantee of what specifically the impact will be. It does seem to have moderated a bit, but it is really a function of the mix of loan growth and also of securities purchases. But it seems like it is moderating a bit.

JOHN STUMPF: Remember, John, we have been pretty thoughtful about reinvesting, but we saw some opportunities late in the year that are still settling and we also saw great loan growth in the fourth quarter. So all those things have an impact.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And those MBS balances you mentioned making towards the end of the fourth and into the first quarter, Tim, those are funded with the cash balances, right, that are only earning about 25 basis points a year increasing yield there, right?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct, but it was 16.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, 16 that you have done so far.

TIM SLOAN: Yes -- no, no, no. I am talking about 16 basis points.

JOHN MCDONALD: On the yield? Okay.

TIM SLOAN: In terms of deposit costs.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay, great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. My first question is on the excess liquidity. I guess the first part of it is of the $27 million in average growth, ex escrow that you saw this quarter, how much of that do you think is sticky? And if you think most of that is sticky, I appreciate the commentary that you made about if loan growth continues at this pace you can absorb some of that liquidity, but that still leaves you with some excess.

Could you give us a sense of what your deployment strategy is going to be for the next year?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Erika, you raised a really good point and that is we did see very outsized deposit growth and the fact of the matter is that a good portion of that deposit growth came toward the end of the quarter. Whenever that happens we want to be careful to watch that deposit growth over time to make sure that we do think it is sticky.

What's interesting is that, notwithstanding that we've had periods like this over the last couple years, one in point would be the third quarter of 2011, that that deposit growth has been maintained here. So we are optimistic that we can maintain a good portion of that deposit growth. My guess is probably it may be difficult to maintain all of it.

And so it creates a real opportunity for us, because the way that we think about deposit growth is not just to fund our loan growth or fund investments. It is broadening the relationships and bringing new relationships into the Company. And so that gives us an opportunity not only to invest and increase spread income over time, but to be able to broaden those relationships so that we can grow fee income, which is really what you saw this quarter.

We saw broad-based fee growth and the way that we think about that fee growth this quarter is that it is reflective of all the deposit growth that we have had over the last couple of years, which has been pretty exciting.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me add to that, Erika. First of all, we feel no urgency to have to put something to work that might not be economic for us. You know, we had excess liquidity last summer and today MBS's are 30, 40, 50 basis points richer or higher yield and, as Tim mentioned, virtually all of these deposits are part of relationships.

We are here to serve customers and these deposits -- I think we're moving share today. This is going to benefit this company for years and years and years to come and a lot of that revenue does show up in the non-interest income side.

If you think back four years ago, we had about $650 billion of non-CD deposits in this company. Today we have $950 billion. So, yes, there has been periods of faster growth and slower growth, but we are moving share and I couldn't be happier about this.

ERIKA PENALA: Understood. My second question, if I could, is a follow up to John's. Again, we appreciate the comments on the first quarter with regards to the seasonality in pay as well as some of the $125 million is still going to linger in the run rate.

But as we think about the second quarter, and I take the $12.9 billion that you posted, take out the IFR settlement of $644 million, the charitable contribution of $250 million, and take out the $125 million. Is $11.88 billion a good sort of run rate base for the second quarter?

Obviously, there are moving parts. You mentioned the mortgage production related expenses and investment in the franchise. But is $11.88 billion a good starting point for the second quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Erika, the math that you just did is reasonable, however, I don't know what our expense run rate is going to be in the second quarter. What I do know is that we are going to continue to focus on reducing expenses and improving our expense efficiency ratio.

If revenues are up I would expect expenses to be a little bit higher. And that is a good thing as long as we are delivering those revenues at a reasonable return and seeing an improvement in the expense efficiency ratio.

But, again, we have been very clear. We still believe that our expenses are too high, but we are focused on improving the expense efficiency ratio as opposed to providing a target in terms of a hard dollar cost in any quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: Tim is absolutely right. We are not going to be slavish to any absolute number, but as Tim mentioned, take away two things. Expenses are still too high, we are focused on that, and I would love to see expenses go up if it is appended to increase revenues.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. On the servicing side of the house, people are generally somewhat concerned about volatility in the origination income. But I noticed that your annual kind of servicing fees for kind of clipping the coupons are close to $1 billion and yet your net income, your net revenue that you report is about $250 million. It was $200 million last quarter or so. And all the market value and hedging costs kind of are that number in between.

Could you talk a little about what might get that so that you could report kind of a cleaner number there? What has to happen in terms of is it a level of refis; is it a change in rates? Because you've had a backup in rates in the last few weeks, so could you talk about that a little bit?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, Moshe, that's a good question. I think when you look at the results in 2012, you saw a number of things that occurred in terms of the servicing income. I think one which we have called out is just the higher level of unreimbursed expenses related to lengthening of foreclosure timelines and foreclosure costs.

As we've talked about, we really view those as being environmental, which is why we call them out. I can't promise you how quickly they will come down, but our guess is they will come down and they will be less. Over time they will be less of an impact on the value of servicing.

The other phenomenon that you saw, and it occurred to a greater extent in the first quarter and then to a lesser extent this quarter, was just our assumptions around the discount rate. We had a discount rate change in the first quarter. We had a small discount rate change as it related to access servicing in the fourth quarter that impacted the number by about $53 million. Again, we are hopeful that we don't see those kinds of discount changes over time.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, and just on an unrelated topic. You mentioned the big growth deposits and you are seeing it in service charges. Have there been any kind of pricing, either from you or competitors, pricing changes in the service charge area that are worth noting?

TIM SLOAN: Well, one of the initiatives that we have had over the last year is to simplify our checking accounts and also to make sure that we were being paid appropriately for the services that we provide. So we have repriced the checking account base this year in the Company and that has been an initiative in our Retail Banking group. Notwithstanding that they have been able to grow deposits and over the year grow accounts.

JOHN STUMPF: There is not that much change, though, in the competitive landscape.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Got it. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. So, I guess my margin questions were sort of asked already, but one more quick question.

You outlined that you have $11.9 billion of unrealized gains in the securities portfolio. Now that we are in a Basel III world and that is counting as capital on a BIII basis, is there any desire or anything being done to try to protect that against a rising rate environment? How do you think about that in terms of capital and the desire to protect it?

TIM SLOAN: Well, two ways to think about it and it's a good question. Of course, you know how much we enjoy talking about the NIM, so any additional questions are terrific.

But the way that we think about it is that we look at the underlying risk return for any security, and we do that every day for our entire portfolio. And so you really need to start looking at that on a security-by-security basis.

There are certainly days when we look at some of our investments and we decide that it makes sense to go ahead and sell. But, remember, we think about that portfolio, the AFS portfolio, as a longer-term investment portfolio so you don't really see a lot of sales. It tends to be a little bit of an exception, because, again, we have invested those for the long term.

I think in terms of the potential capital impact, you are absolutely right. It does take -- it is going to be a potential impact. And that is one of the reasons why we think it is prudent to have a cushion in addition to the minimum 8% Tier 1 common equity under Basel III estimates that we have talked about now since investor day.

We are making a lot of progress in terms of growing our Tier 1 common equity at 8.18%, so we're going to be at 9% hopefully in the next year or so. But, again, that is another reason to have a cushion. But I wouldn't look to us trying to monetize that $11.9 billion because we think we are getting a good risk return on the spread income for those investments.

ED NAJARIAN: And you wouldn't do anything necessarily from a hedging standpoint above and beyond what you have historically done to try to protect that?

TIM SLOAN: No, I don't think that that would make sense, because then what you would have is you would have an asset that is generating income that is not marked to market versus a hedge that is potentially marked. And that creates a mismatch. In the industry that has created problems and that is just not how we think about it.

JOHN STUMPF: The other thing, Ed, is if rates do back up there is a whole bunch of other great things that happen with the Company. I mean actually earnings increase with your margin.

So it might not be quarter to quarter. That is why Tim talked about it, that is why we are going to have an extra buffer, but if rates back up that would be a good thing for us. We would love that.

ED NAJARIAN: Right, right.

JOHN STUMPF: For the right reason, because the economy is getting better and so forth.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Then just one quick follow-up. I take it from your answers to John and Erika's questions that you are not feeling any special urgency to get the excess liquidity here reinvested.

It sounds like -- you talked about some additional securities purchases in the beginning of this quarter, but it sounds like you are going to take your time and sort of judge the rate environment and invest that excess liquidity more over time than right away. Is that the way to think about it?

TIM SLOAN: Absolutely right. It gives us great flexibility in terms running the Company, so you are spot on.

JOHN STUMPF: That is dry powder. We think that is a real benefit to the Company.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right, great. Thanks, guys. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks. Good morning, guys. The C&I growth was much stronger in the fourth quarter, so it looks like the fiscal cliff concerns really didn't dampen customer demand much. What were some of the key drivers to the increased volumes this quarter? Was there any increased line utilization? Just how do you feel about the outlook for C&I growth in the year ahead?

TIM SLOAN: Yes. Joe, just a quick answer on line utilization; it was up slightly, but it wasn't a primary driver. Actually it was kind of interesting, because the fiscal cliff negotiations and the potential for increases and changes in tax rates actually had a slightly positive effect on loan growth in the fourth quarter, particularly toward -- on the commercial side and particularly toward the end of the quarter.

So there was some amount of growth related to some of our customers taking actions and so on and so forth. But when you look at the growth within Wholesale Banking, it was pretty broad-based. Our middle-market lending business grew. Our Commercial Real Estate business grew, Corporate Banking grew, Asset Backed Finance grew.

So we were very pleased with the performance, and again it just creates an opportunity to broaden relationships, particularly with new customers. But it was very broad-based, and I would say the fiscal cliff was a net positive to loan growth.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, so it sounds like you feel pretty good about the sustainability of this momentum going forward there.

TIM SLOAN: Well, there is going -- there is always some seasonality. I should have mentioned that, and I apologize. There is some seasonality. There could be -- we could see a bit of that fall off in the first quarter if it was primarily related to the fiscal cliff, but we feel confident that we can continue to grow our loans in Wholesale.

As we mentioned, we have been able to do that for a number of quarters, and we have been able to do that for a number of quarters in many of the Wholesale businesses.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, and then my other question was just if you could just talk a little bit more about your reaction to the new qualified mortgage rules announced yesterday by the CFPB. How might that affect your origination volumes going forward?

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, as I mentioned in my comments, I think that the CFPB found the right balance. They listened to a variety of constituencies or people who provided input. And I think regarding the QM, it is going to provide -- it's broad. It provides clarity and I think it's going to help more Americans get more credit, and that is good for housing, good for America.

But let's step back a second. That is not the only issue that needs to be solved for. We still have the GSEs out there. We have FHAs having their issues. We have the QRM that needs to be yet decided. You have issues around -- states have their own things. New servicing, there's a whole bunch of other things going on here, but this is a positive move.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. Couple questions, one on the repurchase reserves and one on just general reserves.

So on the repurchase reserves, I know you indicated that you are making the reserve for all vintages and we hear from other institutions that they are just making the reserve for vintages that have been requested by the agencies. So, I am wondering if you have been requested by more vintages than you are hearing your peers are or if you are just taking current requests and applying it to everything that you have got.

TIM SLOAN: Good question, particularly with a lot of noise in the market. Our reserving process is the same as it has always been. There is really nothing new this quarter relative to any other quarter and that is we reserve for all probable and current and future demands from all vintages, all vintages.

It is based on the conversations we have, all the documents we receive, so it really hasn't changed. We take into consideration any of the conversations we've had with the agencies and we feel very good about the reserve that we have today.

BETSY GRASECK: And you are making some increase to the reserve even today, so conversations obviously change over time and you just take those conversations and reflect against all your vintages. Is that fair?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct, Betsy. That's absolutely right.

BETSY GRASECK: Then, secondly, on just the loan loss reserves. We have had some commentary from FASB about a proposal for moving to life of loan reserving. And I guess I am interested in understanding your first take on that, how you think that would impact your reserve process in levels. And if you could tie it into your comment that you think the reserving -- the reserve release is likely to slow in 2013 versus 2012.

TIM SLOAN: So let me take the last part of your question first. The primary driver in terms of why we think the reserve release will probably slow this year is that we are seeing -- while we continue to see improvement and a reduction in loan losses, it is improving at a slower rate than it that was, say, a year ago or two years ago. Still seeing improvement and that's great. In addition, we are seeing a growth in the loan portfolio.

So, again, we think we are going to see reserve releases, but the expectation is it will be a little bit less than what we saw -- or it will be less than what we saw in 2013.

In terms of the FASB discussions, again that is a real work in progress right now. It's something that is probably going to take a few years to determine. It will probably increase our reserving level. It will probably be more of a one-time increase and then you will see reserve, on a current basis, probably come down.

But, again, I don't want to speculate too much on that because it is still a work in process, but I think it would be likely to be kind of a one-time reset for the industry. Then the new world could potentially be lower reserves on a current basis.

BETSY GRASECK: Are there any loan categories today that you are doing a form of life-of-loan reserving or would all your loan categories need to be --?

TIM SLOAN: No, no. For us, it would impact all of the loan categories.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. All right, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. Did I hear you correctly when you were going through the balance sheet growth that you are not going to grow your residential portfolio anymore? Did I hear that correctly?

TIM SLOAN: Yes and no. Let me clarify, Paul. We have been very clear to call out the amount of first conforming, first mortgage production that we otherwise would sell in a quarter. We did $9.8 billion of that in the third quarter and then we had $9.7 billion of that in the fourth quarter. And then there will be another $2 billion to $3 billion from fourth-quarter production that will close in January.

That is conforming first mortgage production. But what we will continue to do is we will continue to hold all of our non-conforming, or jumbo, mortgage production on balance sheet. I think our growth in the fourth quarter was about $4 billion and we like that business. That's a great business for us.

PAUL MILLER: And of the $125 billion, just to clarify, that you produced in the quarter, does that $9.7 billion come out of that $125 billion and you sold roughly $115 billion. Is that correct?

TIM SLOAN: No, the $125 billion is what we sold.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. So, you produce close to $135 billion, $140 billion?

TIM SLOAN: No, no, I'm sorry. Paul, I misspoke, I apologize. The $125 billion includes the $9.7 billion.

PAUL MILLER: So if we are trying to create -- okay, so when we try to create, when we are trying to back into a gain on sale margin we should back out that $9.7 billion?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, okay. Then, you talked about that about $9 billion, that the decline in the pipeline was from exiting the brokerage channel. Have you made any other -- didn't you make -- did you tighten up the correspondent channel at all? I know you said you are not going to expand the channel anymore. Have you tightened it up?

TIM SLOAN: No, and again it was $8 billion of production that we had in the wholesale channel in the third quarter that we didn't have in the fourth quarter because we exited that channel by the end of the third quarter. But the correspondent channel is still a very important part of our origination and we did not tighten up underwriting standards for the correspondent channel.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. And the pipeline channel was down roughly 20%. Was that also due to the exit of the brokerage channel?

TIM SLOAN: By a small amount, yes. I would just describe the decline in the pipeline as much seasonal as anything else. It is still -- we ended the quarter with one of the strongest pipelines that we have ever had in our history, so we are very excited in terms of how we are entering the first quarter.

PAUL MILLER: Then just to clarify another comment; you did say that you expect production in the first quarter would be greater better than the fourth quarter for mortgage production?

TIM SLOAN: No, not necessarily.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, I misunderstood you then.

TIM SLOAN: No, no, not necessarily. Just we start the quarter with a higher pipeline than we did a year ago.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, okay. I'm misunderstood you.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Paul, we are still excited about the mortgage being -- we still think there is lots of opportunity there.

PAUL MILLER: And then, I don't know if you guys -- can you guys make any comments about the gain on sale margins? Are they -- is the profitability in mortgage banking holding up despite the fact that we have seen rates go up 20 -- 10, 20 basis point in the last week or so, two weeks ago?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it has. In fact, our gain on sale in the fourth quarter was 2.56% versus 2.21% in the third quarter. So they were up in the quarter.

Again, these are very high levels. We are very pleased to have these gains, but they -- and so because they are high the likelihood is they could come down a bit. But it is a very, very good business right now.

PAUL MILLER: No, I was wondering, so far -- as of today -- we got two weeks under our belt and we have seen -- because of the fiscal cliff agreement that came out that the 10-year is backed up about 20 basis points. But I am hearing profitability in these mortgages are still very -- haven't really backed off at all for the first couple weeks of the year.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, fair question. I haven't looked over the last couple weeks in terms of what the profitability or last week what the profitability in terms of loans we brought in in the last week, but it is profitable right now.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys. Thank you very -- go ahead. Thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Remember. We are going into the -- the spring season typically the better sales season so purchase money. There is still a lot of activity in the mortgage business.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. Two unrelated questions. First, when we look at your wholesale borrowings -- so just conceptually I am thinking about short-term borrowings, long-term debt, foreign deposits, things like that -- I realize some are a little bit longer term than others. And I am curious why we haven't seen those buckets come down when you have had all the strong deposit growth.

TIM SLOAN: Well, remember the strong deposit growth that we had in the fourth quarter was just in the fourth quarter. In fact, in the fourth quarter you saw our long-term debt decline a bit. The way that we think about our long-term debt levels today is that they are about where they need to be, and so much of what you will see us -- what you saw us do last year is just replacement.

We still think it's appropriate to have a certain level of long-term debt, that is very important in terms of our long-term debt ratings. So it is unlikely you are going to see a big decline in that this year.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Matt, if you go back four years ago and look at our numbers, I think we had something over $400 billion of short and long-term debt. Now it is down to a combined $180 billion or something like that. So over time it has come down as we have grown deposits, but as Tim mentioned, we think some debt, to maintain our ratings and support the balance sheet, is important.

MATT O'CONNOR: Then as we think about the other buckets, so outside of long-term debt -- short-term borrowings, foreign deposits -- are those at appropriate levels? Like I guess I thought that instead of growing the liquidity you would just bring that down. So I realize it is just optics, but the NIM wouldn't be under so much pressure from adding some of the Fed funds?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the foreign deposits we have are from customers, so, candidly, I hope those deposits are going to grow over time. In terms of short-term borrowings, you could see a slight decline in our short-term borrowings because of the increase in deposits.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, but I guess the overall message is, as we think about the liability side of things, there is not a lot of leverage to pull from a mix point of view. You have done a lot of what you can do on the whole --

TIM SLOAN: Well, yes, I guess I would say the following. First, we still have about $2 billion, $2.5 billion of TruPS that will likely come off the balance sheet this quarter, early second quarter. Then, I do think that if you look at the costs of our long-term debt, even as it is staying -- coming down a little bit but staying the same, you are seeing us make progress in terms of reducing the long-term debt costs. Just because when you look at a rate environment today versus when we originated some of our long-term debt it is just lower today.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separate topic. As we think about the progression of legacy mortgage issues, just very big picture, like first you were dealing -- the industry was dealing with some reserve build and the actual charge-offs and there has been a lot of various servicing related agreements with the state attorney general or the OCC, with the Fed.

Are we -- it feels like we are pretty -- and then all of course all the putbacks and the servicing. It feels like we are pretty far along on the servicing side. Is there another round or two outside of servicing that we should be aware of? Or, when we wrap up some of these remaining servicing issues, do you think a lot of the legacy mortgage costs go away?

JOHN STUMPF: Matt, here is what I think about that. We have been through this country, especially with housing, been through a really difficult period. You would expect that your litigation costs, all those sort of things would be elevated during that period.

You're right; we have put a lot of that stuff behind us. Some of that is inherent to the business. As the business gets better I would expect less of that, but I am pleased with how much we have gotten through. We have put a lot of it behind us.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, but I guess somebody who is not as involved in this as a lot of folks on the call will call in and say, oh, I thought the banks settled on this last year. Obviously, it is different people or different constituencies coming in on the servicing side, whether it is the actual investors or I guess the politicians or the regulators.

Are they are just other avenues that any of those folks could take? Like maybe it is on the origination side or just kind of other skeletons in the closet that we might be seeing?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, you know, I mentioned in my comments that we have now settled origination and servicing and we settled the look-back. We settled a variety of things, so I mean I can't predict what is all going to come up. But I can tell you I am pleased that we are this far through the process and we have gotten a lot of big things behind us. Industry and as a company.

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I would just note that even as we have had to be a part of these settlements and they have clearly had a financial cost to the Company, throughout that entire period we have generated record earnings.

JOHN STUMPF: 12 quarters in a row through a very difficult period of time. That just talks about the diversity and earnings power of this company.

MATT O'CONNOR: No, absolutely. Fair points. Obviously a lot of your expenses relate to these issues has been lower than some.

JOHN STUMPF: And also, look at the performance of our portfolio. I mean 400 basis points better than the average for the industry and that is ultimately the arbiter and decider in these things in many cases.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KBW: Good morning, thanks so much. Most of my questions have been answered. I just had a couple of follow-ups. One on the qualified mortgage, John.

You were generally positive about the direction. There has been some concern about the jumbo market and some of the press reports have said that the qualified mortgage, about 20% or more of jumbo loans currently being made might not be able to be made as qualified mortgages. I wonder if you could comment a little more specifically about the jumbo market.

JOHN STUMPF: I think it's early yet to comment because I have not read in detail, nor have our people had enough time to really understand everything that is the CFPB's QM. But let me just say this about the jumbo market. We love that business.

We've been in it for a long time. In many cases these are our best customers and we do a lot of other things with them. So I doubt, at least I would be surprised if what ever happened there are would have a big negative impact on the jumbo market.

FRED CANNON: Well, and it is 804 pages so that's understandable not to get through it yet.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I've only been through 600.

FRED CANNON: One other, John, on the expenses and I know you guys are doing -- focused on operating leverage. Within your expense controls I wonder if you could comment about your thoughts about your branch network at this point in time in terms of both within kind of thinking about managing expenses about both the numbers of branches, but also the configuration of kind of the footprint of your current branches, especially given where technology is today.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. Couple things there. First of all, I think we have the best team on the planet running our distribution and I couldn't be happier about the 6,000 or so stores that we have. And stores still today remain incredibly important in the overall distribution community. Even though online, especially tablet, the so-called lean back technology, is changing the industry.

Most customers choose their first financial services provider based on proximity to where they live and we have a store within two miles of half the American population. It is a huge advantage.

But we used to build 5,000 square-foot stores with a 10-penny sign. Now we are building 10-penny stores with a 5,000 square foot sign. It is more important, because if customers come there and then use other technologies they want to be able to go down the Street and say that is where my money is, that is where I can go if there is an issue, that is where I go if I have a big transaction to do. So stores still remain an incredibly important part of the ecosystem of delivery.

That might change over time, and the tablet or the smartphone is changing the way customers do business with us. They are on with us much more, they are learning more, and we are doing -- have all kinds of experiments and tests going on. Paperless stores and more self-service.

And change is not new to us. We have been -- we had at one time in this Company one service model. It was a stagecoach. That went away after a few years and we had to try something else, so this is -- I find this exciting.

FRED CANNON: All right. So it would be fair to say, John, that the numbers of branches could even drift up from here but the square footage will probably be coming down?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, that could be. Actually, the most important thing, and you probably know this, in distribution is distribution density. People want distribution where they live, work, recreate, travel, and so forth. That is -- and we are gaining retail share faster today than we have in my 35 years or 30 years with the Company.

So it's a distribution -- physical distribution remains a critical part of it. But size is -- the way you staff it, the number of people, and all that, sure, that needs to evolve and it is evolving. But we are not in the camp that you can shrink your way to greatness.

FRED CANNON: All right. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Hi, guys. I think I'm just going to have a couple of quick cleanup ones for you.

One further (technical difficulty) on the environmental expenses. So we understand where the consent order, the $125 [million], should be out of the run rate by the second. And, Tim, to your point about there being $800 million now still on the quarterly run rate, I was just wondering if you could kind of give us just a general understanding of the rest of that, the $675 [million] that you are still carrying. What is the tail off of that as we go ahead? And the biggest one being are we close to the end of the putback reserve build?

TIM SLOAN: Well, you know, I wish I knew the answer to -- a specific answer to the question, Ken, because it is a real good one and it is one that we think about a lot around here. Maybe just to give you a sense of some of the magnitude.

If you look back in the fourth quarter of 2011, our foreclosed asset expenses were $390 million. They were $221 million this quarter. That was down from the third quarter, down from the second quarter. So, you are seeing those costs, for example, come down quarter by quarter. Not necessarily by a lot, but -- and they will never go down to zero, but certainly we can continue to make progress on that.

As it relates to repurchase reserve build, I think that the biggest mistake anybody in this industry can make is predict when that is going to end because we just don't know. We have been fortunate over the last -- that we peaked in the second quarter and that we have seen a decline in the third quarter and in the fourth quarter.

Can't promise you whether that's going to continue, but at some point we will be through all the vintages, we will have all the conversations, and we will be done. But, I don't know the pace at which that can continue.

So, I would love to give you a specific number but I just don't know. We just do believe that they are going to be coming down over time and that is what you have been seeing over the last few quarters.

KEN USDIN: All right, and then my second one is the gain on sale question again just on the mix. It being up 30 basis points or so, how much of that was the market versus how much of that was the channel mix you had because of the lack of the Wholesale product in the mix of origination?

TIM SLOAN: Clearly some of it was related to channel mix because you think -- at the margin, we didn't have any Wholesale origination versus having more retail. I don't know what the exact impact that was on the margin. I apologize. We can follow-up with that. But the margin was up over 30 basis points quarter-to-quarter. So, it was a combination of both.

KEN USDIN: Okay. The important thing is that with retail generally comes with it a higher-margin, right, so we shouldn't necessarily look at that as inappropriate, right?

TIM SLOAN: No, I don't think it's inappropriate at all. Also, that is the gain on sale margin. There is also higher costs and expenses associated with it, too, but it is a very, very good thing from our perspective.

KEN USDIN: Fair point. My last one is just on the non-controlling interest, it didn't change on the balance sheet, but it was double the amount that it normally is. That is actually $0.02 extra that you paid out this quarter. Any color you can provide us on that?

TIM SLOAN: That was directly attributable to the gains that we had in the private equity business that we mentioned, so in our equity gains. And so that is really an offset to that. We didn't necessarily feel like we had -- needed to offset that when we called out that impact, but you're right, that is actually a deduct to the net impact.

KEN USDIN: So that is incremental to the number you showed us in the press release? From a --?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, yes, that's correct.

KEN USDIN: But the bottom line is that it shouldn't be at that level going forward because it was specific to the sale of the business?

TIM SLOAN: Correct.

JOHN STUMPF: Unless we have another --

TIM SLOAN: Unless we have another gain. So if we have more gains --.

JOHN STUMPF: It's not a bad thing.

TIM SLOAN: You know that the gains are a good thing, but --.

KEN USDIN: Of course.

TIM SLOAN: But that is what we would -- that's correct, it is a deduct to it.

KEN USDIN: Okay, and then my last tiny one is just on -- sorry, on the put back question, the reserve addition or the provision was $379 million. Can you tell us what the actual losses were this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Hold on, I will get that number. Just a second. It is in the --

KEN USDIN: I might have just missed it in the --

TIM SLOAN: Hold on one second, $206 million.

KEN USDIN: $206 million. Okay, great. Thanks very much, guys. Appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. Given the Becker Underwood gain, this is a good quarter to ask you about a business you don't get to talk about that often, which is the venture capital business. I know it has been a magnificent contributor since the Norwest days.

But looking at your disclosures, at year-end it looked like you had about $1.4 billion invested in VC funds of various types and at September about $1.3 billion. And you had $1.5 billion of gains there this year.

I am wondering are you still able to invest in that fund, in the venture capital business? Are you still making new investments or does the Volcker Rule kind of put this into liquidation mode?

TIM SLOAN: That's a really good question. When you think -- our best guess of the impact that we are going to see from the Volcker Rule -- and again, I want to be careful because the Volcker Rule has not been finalized yet -- is that it would eliminate or end our ability to invest in a private equity fund or a real estate opportunity fund as a limited partner. That seems pretty clear that that business would get eliminated or that activity would get eliminated as part of Volcker.

However, we believe that we will continue to be able to invest, and we continue to invest today, in Norwest Venture Partners and Norwest Equity Partners, which we believe will be allowed under the Volcker Rule.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And those are -- your investments in those funds are what we see in page -- in your 10-Q, the $854 million and the $83 million?

TIM SLOAN: Well, yes, but there is also still a legacy amount of equity investments that are going to -- that are related to limited partnership investments that we've made over time or previously. And those are going to come down over time. But, again, we will continue -- we believe we will continue to be able to invest in NVP and NEP.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, excellent. Then, lastly, I guess not the NIM question, but a net interest income dollars question and that is that it seems like since the first quarter of 2011 net interest income has been $10.8 billion, plus or minus. You have been holding it steady.

And loan growth has been -- like this quarter was 1.3%. So you have had to run just to keep still and yet you said you would think -- expect net interest income dollars to start going up. I guess what gives you the confidence that the treadmill -- that you are going to be able to run faster than the treadmill in the year ahead?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think that is a good analogy. It certainly has been a treadmill because our folks have been working very hard. But I think what gives us confidence is that is what we did when you compare 2012 to 2011. We grew net interest income dollars in this environment.

JOHN STUMPF: Almost $0.5 billion.

TIM SLOAN: Right. And so would we like it to be higher? You bet, we would. But I think we have been able to accomplish that, not necessarily on a sequential quarter basis each quarter, but year over year we have been able to accomplish that with the headwinds that we all know we have experienced in the net interest margin.

So I guess we just look at it and say we hope history repeats itself, because we think we can do that.

JOHN STUMPF: The other thing is our liquidating portfolio; we are getting closer and closer to the end of that. Because when I wake up in the morning the first day of the quarter we know historically $5 billion or $6 billion would shrink on that side. Well, it was $4.1 billion this last quarter so we are going to work through that.

But the investments we are making, some of the on balance sheet, some of the loan growth all of that helps. Also, we have reduced liability costs 2 basis points across the board last year. That's important.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: All right. That's it for me, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. I have questions on the good, the bad, and the ugly.

JOHN STUMPF: That's what you had last time.

TIM SLOAN: I think that's -- yes, you want to start with the ugly first?

MIKE MAYO: Okay, I thought it was -- okay, I don't want to repeat myself too much. Let's start with the good.

How about page 26 of the supplement, the non-accretable difference? I think the good news is, as you said, housing is doing a little bit better. So why do you still have $7 billion of non-accretable difference, or 23% of the unpaid balance? What constrains you from recognizing more of that back to accretable yield?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the analysis that we do is done on a quarterly basis where we look at our expectation related to future loss. We look at default rates, redefault rates, and the like and we make adjustments over time.

You can see in the pages from the supplement that we have made adjustments over time. In fact, in the third quarter we increased -- we moved I think about $400 million, say $400 million or $500 million, from non-accretable to accretable.

Our expectation is over time that if we believe that housing prices are -- if you believe that housing prices are going to continue to increase, and we do, that that won't be the last time that we would move non-accretable to accretable. It just didn't happen based upon our models in the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: Also in the good category, just a general question. How much longer -- and this is a question I did ask last time. How much longer do you think these gain on sale margins will hold? How much longer will we have the mortgage refi boom?

Based on your own website, a 30-year conforming is now at 3.6% and it was under 3.5% for most of last quarter. Again, you need to have some expectations; you guys have to plan on that. Do we have one more quarter, two more quarters, two more years? What is your best guess?

TIM SLOAN: I don't know for sure, but in the fourth quarter we provided some detail in terms of our servicing portfolio. We cut the portfolio -- you can get this on the website -- you can cut the portfolio based on note rate. Then we also segmented it by loan-to-value and we also segmented it by FICO score.

What you see there is there are hundreds of billions of dollars of opportunities, and I am not promising you that we get every one of those refinancing opportunities, but there is hundreds of billions of dollars of refinancing opportunities that are just in our existing portfolio of loans. So it doesn't feel like this is -- absent of a big increase in rates, that this is going to be the last quarter that we are going to see good volume originations from refinance activity.

So could it last a couple more quarters? Sure, it could. Could it last through the end of the year? Your guess is as good as mine, but there is a lot of opportunity out there. We start the quarter with a very strong pipeline, one of the strongest pipelines in our history. So we feel confident and we are optimistic about continued originations in the mortgage business.

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, think about this, the average rate in the portfolio, the servicing portfolio, is 4.77% and the Street rate is 3.25% to 3.5%. I don't exactly where it is from day to day. So, on average, there is at least 100 basis point opportunity there.

Customers typically -- or it's usually in the money if you do it at 50 basis points. Now it's going to be a little bit more difficult to get.

Is marketing and retail more important? Absolutely. That plays to us. We have the largest retail sales force. We have thousands of team members in our stores who are talking to customers every day and finding leads. So this is what we do.

Again, I don't know how many quarters it's going to be. I don't know all that, but I am optimistic.

MIKE MAYO: Then under the -- that's helpful. Under the bad category, the loan utilization has not improved a whole lot. I guess you are saying it's good because you are moving market share, but why isn't loan utilization going up? Why isn't there more demand from the customers?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, most of our commercial customers their balance sheets are the strongest I've seen in years and years. They are sitting with tons of liquidity and cash in our faults, so it is kind of logical that they would use their cash first before they would borrow.

But the good part of that whole story is we are growing in spite of that. The day will come when they will start to use those lines again. We have already had all the embedded costs; just think of what happens then. So I view this as kind of a good, not a bad.

MIKE MAYO: And then the ugly. I know you don't call this the ugly, the last margin question.

You brought up that NII last year grew despite the margin and all that, but linked quarter it didn't look as good. Look, if your core deposit pricing goes down by 2 basis points and your loan repricing goes down by 5 and your securities pricing goes down by 11, that's not a good formula. So when do you think that margin decline subdues, goes away?

TIM SLOAN: If you tell me where rates are going to be in any scenario, then I can give you a better idea. I don't know where rates are going to go, Mike. I think it's a very fair question, but the important thing when you think about Wells Fargo is not to be overly focused on the net interest margin.

We get half, about half of our income through spread income. We get about half of our income through fee income. You saw a diversified growth on the spread income side in terms of loans, the best that we've had in a long time. More important -- as important, you saw diversified growth in fees.

And so sure, we are on -- the net interest margin is under pressure. But even in a quarter where the net interest margin was down 10 basis points, again mostly because of deposits which we think long term is a great thing in terms of growing that deposit growth, our net interest income was about flat. I view that as pretty strong performance in this environment.

JOHN STUMPF: I would also suggest a lot of companies would kill for our margin. Feel pretty good.

I mean, yes, it has come down, but for all the reasons that Tim has said, why would we turn around away deposits from our customers? You know, we are not -- surely we look at the margin, surely we think about that, but we don't run our business according to it.

And I know we've had this discussion many times, but for a company that can grow revenue 6%, 6% to 7% without any help really, much help from half of your revenue side that is a very strong company.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Good morning. I wanted to follow up on one of the questions. In your answer to Mike on the refinance activity you brought up that the average rate is 4.75%, the Street rate is around 3.50%. So half of your customers are still in a position where they should refinance.

What are the two main reasons that are holding them up? With all the HARP out there and all the other programs and initiatives, what helps to get those customers back in front of you and able to do the refinancings that at this point they really should be able to do?

TIM SLOAN: Marty, I don't know, or wouldn't necessarily agree that it is half of the servicing customers. It is certainly a large portion. So if you think our servicing portfolio is about $1.9 trillion, I think when you look at how we cut the servicing portfolio and some of the work that we did last quarter that we provided, I think the number is probably a quarter to maybe a third of the $1.9 trillion.

What keeps some people is they are toward the end of the maturity of their loan and they look at it and say, you know what, it doesn't make sense. Or they have got other things to do or their LTV might be high. They might be -- they could have -- excuse me, they could have applied for the HARP program and it takes a while to do that.

So there is a lot of reasons why folks do it. It is not because our team is not out there working very hard to try to help them refinance their loans.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I would also say that there has been so much volume coming that it has taken 90 days or it has been a long process.

Now that we have built up our team we are looking more at -- we can shorten that period of time in which it takes to refinance to 60 days. So I think that is an advantage. But the real advantage is we have got this retail distribution working together, all our personal bankers and commercial bankers who look for these opportunities refer to our mortgage company. That's really one of our strengths and how we are going to harvest this and serve these customers.

MARTY MOSBY: Staying in mortgage for a second, if you look at the hedging value at 67 basis points, we actually saw an uptick a couple basis points this quarter. As you are looking at rates now moving really in an upward direction at some pace in the future, what are you doing with your hedging such that you lightened up the bit of the hedging negatives as rates go up and allow the value or the increased value in servicing as the extension of the life, bringing some of that to the bottom line to help offset whatever downdraft you might see on the origination side?

TIM SLOAN: We're not going to fundamentally change our hedging strategy. We don't want to think about the MSR as a way to speculate on interest rates. That is just not -- none of us around here are smart enough to know where interest rates are going to go.

But we are pretty good at doing and what our mortgage team is very good at doing, and that is putting a hedge in place that keeps the appropriate level of risk so that we can look at our servicing asset and generate the income based upon the fundamentals of the business as opposed to the direction of the rates.

MARTY MOSBY: I guess instead of really betting on interest rates it's almost like we are paying for insurance that you don't really need to have, because further drops in interest rates are not as feasible as they would be as before when rates were higher.

TIM SLOAN: You know what, Marty, I think that's a fair point. Except, you know what, if we were sitting here a year ago we might have said the same thing. Then we would have been wrong and we would have had a big loss in the MSR which had been unhedged. And you could have said the same thing two years ago.

So at some point you're going to be absolutely right. I am just not and we are not smart enough to know exactly when that inflection point is going to be. And we are just not going to use the MSR to speculate on rates.

JOHN STUMPF: This is a really good business. We don't need to speculate on that. It just doesn't make any sense for us.

MARTY MOSBY: Understood. When you look at the asset quality and the net charge-offs dropping down to -- if you take the OCC impact of around 18-odd basis points, so we have gone from 130 in the fourth quarter last year to a little less than 90 basis points. That trend, you would think, as the underwriting and the lack of demand and the cleanup in the portfolio and run off of some of the more troubled portfolios or ones that have a little bit more pressure could really in a good time end up less than 75 basis points.

Do you kind of see that migration over the next couple years?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I hope you are correct. I think we have got to be a little bit careful because in some of our businesses we are already experiencing much less than typical loan losses. For example, in the wholesale business. It is about as good as it's going to get. Now we could see a little bit of improvement, but to that part of the business we have already seen a decline.

The disproportionate share of our losses -- loan losses continue to come from the home equity portfolio. That portfolio continues to reduce in terms of overall size, so we are hopeful that the loan-loss rate that we experienced net or gross of the OCC guidance will continue to go down. Whether or not we can get to 75 basis points only time is going to tell, but we are clearly going in the right direction.

MARTY MOSBY: Then last question, and thanks for spending so much time, is you talked about as the yield curve steepened at the end of the year that you started to go and hit some of those higher yields. What kind of critical level are you looking at in a sense that the yield curve can steepen as we saw much quicker than the Fed ever starts to tighten interest rates? As you start thinking about deploying liquidity, what are some of the levels that you are guidelines or thought process brings you to be a little more aggressive on the liquidity side?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Marty, if you look back at where rates rose to right toward the end of the year, so when you think about the two inflection points that we saw there were a few day to a week period as the fiscal cliff negotiations seemed to be going fairly well that rates backed up pretty significantly. And that was a good indication of some of the inflection points that we were looking at.

Then, likewise, when the Fed minutes were released last week and there was a little bit of surprise in terms of the dissension, or healthy conversations, maybe that is a better way to describe it, among the various Fed governors, voters and not, that rates rose again. We took that opportunity to buy.

So it is that those levels that we feel are pretty attractive over a long-term basis.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Marty, we don't have any set number that we say this is the number at which we will buy for the next 30 or 60 days or whatever. It's a very dynamic iterative process. We are looking, we are reading, we are thinking.

So that is kind of how we go about this. With a bias towards conservatism and making sure that we understand the whole asset liability mix and so forth.

MARTY MOSBY: Thank you. I appreciate your time.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH LLC: Good morning, guys. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Nancy. We're great.

NANCY BUSH: One sort of universal question; it's applicable to you and I think it's applicable to the industry as well. Your ROE has improved to about 13%, which is one of the better ROEs in the industry, but I guess my question is how we look at normalized ROE, not only for you but for the rest of the industry?

I mean a 13% is good. It is below your historical levels. Is it desirable or is it possible to get back to those historical levels?

TIM SLOAN: That's a really good question. I think that fundamental to the question is just that when you look at the level of equity that the industry is going to have to hold in the next few years or beyond that, it is just higher than it was pre-crisis. So I think it is unlikely when you compare precrisis return on equity to post crisis, what we are experiencing now, that we are going to get back to that high teens, even in some quarters low 20%s, returns on equity.

Now, having said that, at our investor day we provided a range of return on equity between 12% and 15%. The reason we provided that range is that the level of economic activity and interest rates, as we know, can drive our returns.

So our best guess is that in the current environment -- relatively slow growing economy, though we are obviously making the best of it, and lower rates -- we think we will be in the middle to the lower end of that range. If rates tick up and the economy starts to pick up a bit, we think we can be at the higher end of that range and hopefully get up to the mid-teens. Hopefully that helps.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. A question for you, John. The QM -- I don't know how it's come out relative to what the industry expected, but it's clearly going to keep some people out of the mortgage market who have got into the mortgage market before.

Do you expect that now that we have the QM and you are going to be getting, I think, a higher quality customer as a result that the consumer groups are now going to start screaming about people being kept out of the mortgage market who were getting mortgage loans before?

JOHN STUMPF: It's hard to speculate or comment with any confidence on what others might see in it. I guess I would just go back to a couple things. First of all, I don't know everything that's in the 800-some pages, but what I do know about it it solved a couple of issues that I think are really important.

It created a broad standard, or we got as many loans as possible into the QM definition. And number two, there is good clarity around legal protections and risks and so forth. There is also a debt to income or consumer debt or mortgage debt vis-a-vis income, so there are some bright lines.

Hopefully, that will encourage more participants in the industry, more borrowers, and I think that is all good. Now, whether that -- but I don't think that alone will open up the floodgates of credit, because there is all these other things going on that I had mentioned that are still unresolved. But I think this is a step in the right direction, I really do.

NANCY BUSH: And, thirdly, I would just ask you a question that has sort of been hanging around. The Atlantic article which highlighted your accounting issues; this is not new, it is bringing up a lot of the issues that have been brought up before. Can you just give me your reaction to that?

Is there anything you or anybody else in the industry can do to make some of these things, like VIEs, more transparent?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, first of all, let's talk about transparency. We want -- in fact, this team is available to any one of you; call us. We are not hearing these things from our investors.

When I became CEO we reinstituted or started the live call. We had the credit supplement. The Company is a pretty plain vanilla in the way we operate the Company. Yes, there are -- there is level one, twos, and three assets in this, but that doesn't make them less credible. It is just that sometimes there is not market prices we can do, so we have to go through cash flows and establish values that way.

I have never seen us be more transparent. So if there is other things we can do I am all ears for, but I am not hearing that from investors and, frankly, I am not hearing that kind of commentary from most of the people, including analysts, that I talk to. But people can write what they want to write and they can make their own choices about where they invest their money.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, John and Tim. Happy New Year to you.

JOHN STUMPF: Happy New Year, Chris.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Tim, I had a real quick question for you, a follow up on the reserves. You mentioned that reserve releases will be lower in 2013 than 2012 but they could still continue to some degree.

If I back out the charge-offs from the OCC guidance related charge-offs in both third quarter and this quarter, because I think you guys have mentioned they were already reserved for, it looks like that you did under provide last quarter. Provision was $200 million lower than net charge-offs. But this quarter if I backed them out your provision would be $70 million higher. So, in essence, have the reserve releases already ended?

TIM SLOAN: No, no, not at all. There are so many puts and takes that go into our reserve release or reserving methodology that ultimately then produces a reserve release or, if you look back a few years, a reserve build. I wouldn't just focus on the impact of the OCC guidance as the primary driver for that. There's just a lot of puts and takes. And if we thought that the reserve releases had ended we would say so.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Is there any thought -- they may have asked this before and I know it's a difficult question to answer, but with FASB and with the environment we are from a regulatory perspective and where reserves were heading into the crisis, any thought of where reserve to loans in a range and up post re-regulation versus the financial crisis?

If we were at 1-to-1 in a quarter pre-crisis are we up to 1.50 to 1.75 when all is said and done on a reserve to loan basis? Or is that still too difficult to ascertain?

TIM SLOAN: You know, that's a really fair question and I wish we had a great answer for you, but there has been a lot of discussion and a lot of commentary, some jawboning from the regulators on this topic, so I would describe it as a work in process. We think that we are appropriately reserved. And we are hopeful that over time our reserves can come down as long as our portfolio -- credit losses and the portfolio continues to improve, which is what we have been seeing.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Well, thank you for the answer and good luck to you the rest of the year.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Morning, guys. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Good.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: A couple [ticky-tack] questions for you. First, on the margin. This last quarter you went through a couple items in terms of the cash build -- burden in terms of the NIM impact and repricing. But then also there was the variable sources benefit of 3 basis points. What was that or what is that, and how we think about that? Is it seasonal one time or how do we think about that?

TIM SLOAN: No, I think that -- as we've described variable, it is a broad definition. The primary drivers this quarter for the variable income was higher fee income. So what that means is that when we have a loan and we charge a fee on a loan that fee generally accrues over the life of the loan.

When that loan is paid off early then we go ahead and recognize any of the unamortized portion of the loan fee. So that was a primary driver this quarter. I wouldn't call it seasonal or one time. We see that from time to time within the business. Some quarters it's higher, sometimes it's lower.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Was it about the same last quarter or was this quarter a little higher?

TIM SLOAN: I will go back and look. I think it was a little bit higher this quarter. Again, that is not a typical for what you can -- in terms of -- but the amount of the variation is not atypical to what we have seen on a quarterly basis, but it was a little bit higher.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, thanks. Then on asset quality and the reserve question that Chris I think just mentioned, wanted to ask more granularly on Hurricane Sandy implications. You had mentioned it on earlier comments and in the release.

How much of an impact was it really this quarter? Was it in charge-offs, less reserve release? How do we think about it?

TIM SLOAN: It really wasn't in the absolute charge-off number, because it was -- when you think about the timing of Hurricane Sandy. So it was primarily in the reserve and the methodology that we used.

We assume that we are going to have some additional losses in the future from Hurricane Sandy, so we wanted to make sure that we were appropriately reserved, which we believe we are based upon our best estimates right now. But as you can appreciate, we are very early into our true analysis or finalizing the analysis. It is going to take a while to see what the ultimate impact is, but we think that we are appropriately reserved based upon some conservative assumptions right now.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Can you quantify how much the impact was this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: I would rather not. It was -- the reason I don't want to go into the specific details is because when you think about the reserving methodology, again, there's lots of puts and takes. Some things go up, some things go down. But just rest assured that we think we are are appropriately reserved.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, that's helpful. Then just lastly, on the tax rate, even adjusting for the settlement this quarter, it looks like the tax rate looks a little bit low, 31% on an adjusted basis. How do we think of -- is that lower than what it has been recently? Is that a new kind of run rate or should we think about it going back to kind of the 33%, 34% rate?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, what I would do -- that's a fair question. What I would do is go along the direction that you are and that is I would back out the impact that we had in the fourth quarter, which is why we called it out, because we don't think 27% is sustainable. Then you get to the number that you were talking about, 31%, 32%. I think that 31%, 32%, 33% is a reasonable number, but it is more likely to go up a bit in 2013 than what we have seen in 2012.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it, great. Thanks, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay. Thanks much, everybody. We had a full set of discussions and we really appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo. Happy New Year again and we will see you at the end of the first quarter. Thank you, again.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gvtre : Treasury Department | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020130125e91b0015p
  


 HD
 Q3  2012 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,172 words
   PD
12 October 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions) I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will review third-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Our results in the third quarter demonstrated the underlying strength of our diversified business model and our ability to earn more of our customers' business driving outstanding performance throughout our franchise.

Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the quarter. We achieved record net income, up 22% from a year ago, and EPS was also up 22%. Revenue grew 8% and pre-tax pre-provision profit increased 14% from a year ago.

Our core loan portfolio grew 6% and core deposits were also up 6% from a year ago. We had positive operating leverage and our efficiency ratio improved by 240 basis points from a year ago.

We had continued strong underlying credit performance. Our profitability ratios reflected the strong results with our return on assets growing to 1.45%, up 19 basis points from a year ago, the highest it has been in five years. Our return on equity increased to 13.38%, up 152 basis points from a year ago.

Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III reached 8.02% as we continue to have strong capital growth while remaining focused on returning more capital to our shareholders.

This strong performance during a period of slow and uneven economic growth was driven by momentum across Wells Fargo's diversified businesses. We have a broad set of products that enables us to meet all of our customers' financial needs, which is reflected by our record retail banking cross-sell this quarter of 6.04 products per household.

In the current low rate environment, our mortgage business continued to benefit from strong refi and purchase volume, and credit quality reached and reflected an improving housing market. Our credit card business is successfully generating new account growth, up 46% from a year ago and we are focused on increasing customer card usage, which is generating strong balance and fee growth. We have grown managed accounts assets in our retail brokerage business over 25% in the past 12 months, driven by strong net flows and market performance.

Our Wholesale Banking business continues to meet the financial needs of our commercial customers generating nine consecutive quarters of loan growth from our middle-market customers. We are also meeting the lending needs of our small business customers with $11.4 billion of new loan commitments so far this year, up approximately 30% from a year ago.

These are just a few examples of the momentum we have throughout our businesses as we remain focused on better serving our customers while we continue to be diligent in managing our costs and risks. Our ability to meet a broadly diversified set of customer needs throughout a variety of economic cycles is a clear Wells Fargo advantage and contributed to another strong quarter for our company. Tim Sloan, our Chief Financial Officer, will now provide more details on our financial results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John. Good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement starting on page two, and then John and I will take your questions.

As John highlighted, we had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $4.9 billion, up 7% from the second quarter. Earnings per share were a record $0.88, up 7% from last quarter, our 11th consecutive quarter of EPS growth and the sixth consecutive quarter of record EPS.

Our ability to consistently generate earnings growth reflects the benefit of our diversified business model. We are balanced between fee and spread income and our sources of fee generation are also very diversified. As John highlighted, we had many businesses serving our commercial and consumer customers that had strong growth this quarter, and I will provide more examples throughout my comments today.

I am going to highlight some of the key drivers of our results this quarter starting on page four and then I will discuss them in more detail later in my remarks.

We had strong balance sheet growth in the quarter. We grew both our total and core loan portfolios with growth in commercial and consumer portfolios. We once again had strong deposit growth with balances up $23 billion.

Turning to credit, we continued to have strong underlying credit performance this quarter. However, our reported results were affected by regulatory guidance issued to the industry by the OCC.

The guidance covers consumer loans that are current or less than 60 days delinquent where the borrower has declared bankruptcy. The implementation of this guidance resulted in a $1.4 billion reclassification of performing consumer loans to non-accrual and $567 million in net charge-offs, which was fully covered by our loan-loss reserves. Absent this change, credit performance continued to improve, which I will also highlight later on the call.

Turning to the income statement, net interest income was down as our net interest margin declined as expected from the second quarter. We had strong noninterest income growth across a number of our businesses this quarter and we remained focused on reducing expenses and we generated positive operating leverage. Let me now cover our business drivers in more detail.

As shown on page six, period-end loans were up $7.4 billion from the second quarter with growth across a number of commercial and consumer portfolios. The liquidating portfolio declined by $4.5 billion and our core loan portfolio grew by $11.9 billion. We have now grown our core portfolio for eight consecutive quarters.

Commercial loans declined $1.5 billion as growth in C&I and real estate construction loans was offset by declines in our real estate mortgage loans, leases, and foreign portfolios. Consumer loans increased by $8.9 billion with growth in first mortgage, auto, credit card, and private student lending. The growth in our first mortgage portfolio was due to our decision to retain $9.8 billion of new conforming fixed-rate production with most of this coming later in the quarter.

While retaining these mortgage loans on our balance sheet reduced mortgage revenue this quarter, we expect to generate spread income in future quarters for mortgage loans with higher yields than mortgage-backed securities we could have purchased in the market. We are in a unique position to have a large enough mortgage business and strong capital to be able to make these choices that should benefit long-term results. We currently expect to retain additional conforming mortgages in the fourth quarter.

Average loan balances increased $8.5 billion from the second quarter, benefiting from strong consumer loan growth and the late second-quarter close of the WestLB portfolio.

Deposit growth remains strong this quarter with average deposits up $22.5 billion from the second quarter and up $63.9 billion, or 7%, from a year ago. Average core checking and savings deposits were up 9% from a year ago and were 94% of average core deposits.

We continue to benefit from lower deposit loss costs with average deposit costs of 18 basis points in the third quarter, down 1 basis point from the second quarter and down 7 basis points from a year ago. We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for eight consecutive quarters.

Tax equivalent net interest income declined $393 million from the second quarter. Average earning assets grew $26.3 billion linked quarter with growth in short-term investments and mortgages held for sale.

As we expected, the NIM was under pressure this quarter. The 25 basis point decline in the net interest margin was driven by three primary factors.

First, variable income declined from strong second-quarter levels, which accounted for 10 basis points of the linked-quarter decline in the net interest margin. Second, approximately 8 basis points of the margin pressure was driven by continued balance sheet repricing as higher-yielding earning assets ran off and we were cautious in our reinvestment activity, focusing on shorter duration securities. Specifically, 6 basis points of the decline was from our available-for-sale portfolio and 2 basis points of the decline was from the loan portfolio.

Third, the remaining 7 basis points was driven by strong deposit growth we had in the quarter and invested in short-term investments in Fed funds sold. As we have highlighted for the past year or so, we expect continued pressure on the net interest margin given this low rate environment. However, we don't believe the net interest margin decline we had this quarter is representative of what we will see in the future.

Noninterest income increased $299 million from the second quarter, up 3%. Growth was broad based and included a 6% increase in deposit service charges, which was driven by product and pricing changes that we have now rolled out throughout our geographies. Trust and investment fees grew $56 million, or 2%, from the second quarter, reflecting strong asset-based fees in retail brokerage and asset management as well as higher retail brokerage transaction volume.

Credit card fees increased 6% from the second quarter driven by new account growth and higher volumes, including a 5% increase in credit card transactions. Trading gains were up $266 million with $153 million of higher deferred compensation and plan investment income, which was offset in employee benefit expense and stronger customer accommodation trading results.

Mortgage banking revenue declined $86 million from the second quarter driven by lower servicing income. The decline in servicing income was primarily due to a $350 million reduction in our MSR valuation for updating servicing and foreclosure costs. The ratio of MSRs to related loans serviced for others was at a historical low of 63 basis points.

Mortgage gain on sale revenue was up $396 million from the second quarter, despite approximately $200 million in foregone revenue from retaining conforming mortgage loans which I mentioned earlier. Third-quarter results included a $462 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, which was $207 million lower than the second quarter.

Mortgage originations were $139 billion in the third quarter, up $8 billion from the second quarter and up $50 billion from a year ago. 14% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP. The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was $97 billion, down from last quarter but still very strong, and volume during the first few weeks of October has accelerated as rates reached new lows.

Turning to expenses, we continue to make progress in reducing costs. Noninterest expenses were down $285 million from the second quarter. This decline includes lower personnel expenses from lower severance costs.

Operating losses were down $243 million on lower litigation accruals. Our litigation reserves consider all litigation matters we are aware of including the recently announced FHA lawsuit.

Insurance expenses declined $132 million due to seasonally lower insurance commissions. Our efficiency ratio continued to improve down to 57.1%, the lowest level in 10 quarters and within our target range of 55% to 59%. We expect to be within this range in the fourth quarter.

While we are pleased with the progress we have made, we remain focused on managing expenses even as we continue to benefit from strong revenue opportunities throughout our businesses.

Turning to our segment results starting on page 11, Community Banking earned $2.7 billion in the third quarter, up 8% from the second quarter. Retail Banking achieved a record cross-sell of 6.0 products per household, up from 5.9 a year ago. Cross-sell in the West grew to 6.4 and reached 5.56 in the East.

We continued to have strong partner referrals including such products as insurance, mortgage, and student lending, which were up more than 30% from a year ago. To support future growth, we consistently have invested throughout our franchise. For example, we increased platform banker FTEs in the East by more than 500, or 5%, from the second quarter.

Wholesale Banking earned record net income of $2 billion in the third quarter, up 6% from the second quarter. The results this quarter reflect strong fee income, solid loan growth, lower expenses, and improved credit quality. Credit losses in Wholesale Banking were just 8 basis points this quarter, reflecting higher recoveries and improved performance.

We had strong results across a number of our wholesale businesses. Let me give you a few examples.

Within our CMBS capital markets business we increased our market share from 8% of the second quarter to 15% in the third quarter as we securitized more of our own loans and also better met the securitization needs of our customers. Our asset management business grew assets under management by 3% from the second quarter and Wholesale Banking's cross-sell increased to 6.7, up from 6.5 at year-end 2011.

Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement earned $338 million, down 1% from the second quarter, reflecting lower net interest income partially offset by higher brokerage transaction and asset-based revenue and lower net charge-offs. WBR client assets were up 4% from the second quarter, including strong growth in average core deposits, up 2%, and retail brokerage managed asset accounts up 7% driven by strong net flows and market performance.

Our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs is reflected in achieving a record cross-sell ratio of 10.27 products for WBR household driven by growth in retail banking products.

Turning to credit quality, as I highlighted at the beginning of my remarks, our reported credit metrics were impacted by the implementation of the OCC industry guidance related to bankruptcies. Page 14 highlights that our underlying credit trends, adjusted for this impact, continued to improve. Let me review our trends adjusted for this impact.

Net charge-offs declined $409 million from the second quarter and were 92 basis points of average loans. Provision expense was $1.6 billion in the third quarter, down $209 million from the second quarter reflecting better credit performance. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future reserve releases.

Another sign of improving underlying credit trends was a $4.3 billion addition to the accretable yield balance primarily from our Pick-a-Pay portfolio. $3.6 billion was due to an increase in expected cash flows that did not affect the non-accretable difference and $687 million of the increase was a reclassification from non-accretable difference to accretable yield. These increases reflect an improved housing market forecast and credit outlook and will be recognized through net interest income over the expected life of these loans, which increased to approximately 13 years for our Pick-a-Pay portfolio.

Nonperforming assets were down $1.1 billion from the second quarter and were 3.04% of total loans. Loans 90 days or more past due increased [to] $132 million from the second quarter, reflecting normal seasonality in consumer loans, but were down $437 million from a year ago. Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also increased from the second quarter due to seasonality, but were significantly better than a year ago.

Page 17 is just a reminder of the quality of our mortgage servicing portfolio with over 70% of the portfolios being with the agencies. The quality of our portfolio is demonstrated by the low delinquency and foreclosure rate on our servicing portfolio, which was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recently publicly available data. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.32% in the third quarter, down from 7.63% a year ago and a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.

We added $462 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter, down $207 million from the second quarter. Our repurchase reserve considers both outstanding reserves and also our future expectations for demands. Our repurchase reserve balance increased $269 million from the last quarter, reflecting $156 million of lower losses.

New demands from GSEs were actually down in the third quarter. However, our outstanding repurchase demands were up from the second quarter. This increase reflected higher non-agency demands, primarily due to new demands that have been previously reserved for. Agency outstanding demands were also up linked quarter, which reflected the demands from increased file requests we highlighted last quarter, as well as the times it is taking to work through those demands with the agencies.

As shown on page 19, our Tier 1 common equity ratio was 10.06%, down 2 basis points from the second quarter. Our third quarter ratio reflects refinement to the risk weighting of certain unused lending commitments that provide for the ability to issue standby letters of credit which reduced the ratio by 32 basis points. Importantly, this update did not affect our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals, which grew to 8.02% in the third quarter. We continue to have a very strong capital position.

We purchased 16.5 million shares in the third quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 9 million shares that is expected to settle in the fourth quarter.

As we have highlighted throughout the call today, we have demonstrated momentum across our franchise as reflected in growth across a diverse group of consumer and commercial businesses. We have many examples listed on page 20. The main point is that across cycles different businesses drive our growth, which has been the reason for our consistent performance.

In summary, our balanced business model produced strong results again this quarter. We once again achieved record earnings and EPS. We grew pre-tax pre-provision profit, achieved positive operating leverage with reduced expenses, and had strong underlying credit performance. Our ROA increased to 1.45%, the highest in five years, and within our target range of 1.3% to 1.6%. Our ROE grew to 13.38%, also within our target range of 12% to 15%.

Our ability to achieve this growth in a low rate environment that is putting pressure on our net interest margin and in a quarter when mortgage revenue actually declined slightly clearly demonstrates the underlying momentum we have across our franchise. I will now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. My first question was on the margin. Is there a seasonality in terms of deposit flows? Because you have $92 billion average cash this quarter and it was $98 billion last quarter. Sorry, last year same quarter.

I am just wondering -- and we had sort of a similar step down and more stability in other quarters. I am just wondering if there is a seasonality in deposit flows that we hadn't been taking into account.

TIM SLOAN: Erika, that is a good question. I think throughout the year you can see some seasonality in our deposit flows. I wouldn't necessarily conclude that every third quarter we are going to have deposit growth like we had in the third quarter of last year and this year, but there is no question that part of the -- and a big reason for the net interest margin decline was because of the strong deposit flows. Particularly what we saw in September.

ERIKA PENALA: And it is clear that the momentum in core loan growth should absorb some of that excess cash on a go-forward basis. But could you give us a sense of how you plan to deploy and how much of the excess cash that you plan to deploy on a go-forward basis? Your reinvestment strategy that is not soaked up by core loan growth.

TIM SLOAN: Well, the first call on any of our liquidity is for our customers and it is really going to be focused on core loan growth. As you saw this quarter, we decided to hold $9.8 billion of our conforming first mortgage portfolio, primarily because we viewed it as a very good investment opportunity for us given the risk reward of holding those mortgages, which were very high quality, versus buying a similar duration MBS at a big premium.

We were very cautious this quarter in terms of how we thought about our investment alternatives. And we are doing that because we are thinking about the investment portfolio for the long term.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Erika, I think Tim is absolutely right on that. We have to be very careful at this point in time not to just go out there and stretch for yield and take on a lot of interest rate risk. But the first call is always for our customers.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay. And just one last question on the margin and I will step off. On slide 15 you mentioned that there was a $4.3 billion increase in the accretable yield. I guess the way I am thinking about this is as the housing market in the US recovers you can continue to reclassify more of the non-accretable into accretable. And so that is clearly going to be margin support on a go-forward basis.

The negative impact that you mentioned on the margin this quarter, did that have to do with lower cash resolution from the Wachovia legacy book than last quarter? Am I thinking about those components the right way?

TIM SLOAN: No, that is correct. The 10 basis points that we called out in the supplement was primarily because of lower resolutions, and as we mentioned in the second quarter, we had higher resolutions. Those are going to be volatile on a quarter-to-quarter basis.

But you're absolutely correct when you think about the impact on the non-accretable yield to accretable yield and then the expectation of cash flows from that portfolio, that as the housing market continues to improve that we will get benefit there.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Thank you for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Tim, could you perhaps maybe just drill down a little more into what you are seeing from the agencies in terms of the putbacks? I mean you talked about it a little bit. Can you kind of just -- I mean some of your competitors have already kind of had their reserves to the point where they are beginning to draw them down. Could you talk about that a little bit?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. As we mentioned, we added $462 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter, which was down from the second quarter which was $669 million. And there is a little bit of noise in the puts and takes there because the new agency demand levels were actually down. So these are new agency demands were down this quarter, which is a good sign.

I don't necessarily think that it means we should declare victory and they are always going to be down, but that is a good sign that we haven't seen for a while.

The outstanding demands from the GSEs were actually up a little bit, and this reflects a couple of things. One, remember our expectations from last quarter as well as the fact that it has taken a little bit longer to work through file requests. But the non-agency demands were actually up this quarter.

So there is a lot going on there and we continue to have a lot of discussion with the agencies. But there is nothing that we have seen yet that would indicate that the decline that we saw this quarter is certainly a trend. I hope it is, but I can't guarantee you that that is going to be the case.

JOHN STUMPF: There are a couple of big -- step back a little bit, a couple of issues that are encouraging. First of all, real estate is getting better. We saw it in housing a year ago and every quarter we have more confidence that this -- we are not back to where we need to be and it is not as robust as we would all want it to be, but that is good on the repurchase side as values go up.

And, secondly, we continue to get further and further away or it is further in the rearview mirror the 2006 through 2008 portfolios. Every quarter we go we are getting through that. So those are things that are encouraging.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Just on the mortgage banking front, a couple of just interesting trends. It looks like you took the pedal off on the correspondent business a touch and at the same time took the valuation of your MSR down, whereas JPMorgan had taken it up a little bit. Could you just talk a little bit about how we should think about the interplay of both origination volumes into the fourth quarter in 2013 and maybe perhaps the valuation of the MSR?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. I will start with origination volume. We ended the quarter with a pipeline that was a little bit less than the second quarter, but at almost $100 billion it is still very strong. As we mentioned, volume has been strong so far this quarter being the fourth quarter, so we expect to have a pretty strong mortgage quarter in the fourth quarter.

How long that lasts don't know for sure, but it feels like it is going to last at least a few quarters and obviously we hope it does.

In terms of the MSR valuation, the change that we made this quarter was just to continue to take into consideration the higher servicing and the foreclosure costs that we are seeing and to include that in the valuation of our MSR. And that yielded a $350 million write-down.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning. Just first following up on the mortgage; can you just also comment about gain on sale margin trends in the quarter? Were they materially higher at all at year-end, I mean quarter-end?

TIM SLOAN: No, they were at 2.21% which was about what it was in the second quarter at 2.2%.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And beyond that, any thoughts on the potential impact of the Fed's NPRs now that you have had more insight looking at that? Also just going into CCAR for 2013 if any thoughts about maybe your approach and if it would be any different than last year?

TIM SLOAN: In terms of the NPRs, the Basel III estimate that we have for Tier 1 common equity takes into consideration a relatively conservative implementation of those. So the 8.02% number we feel is a pretty solid number based upon what we know today. We haven't gotten any further updates or indications just because it is a work in process right now.

As it relates to CCAR, we are really looking forward to going through a CCAR and we are looking forward to presenting our submission in the first quarter, because it is the way that we can continue to increase our capital return to our shareholders. As you know, we had a very successful CCAR process this last year and our expectations are we will have another successful one.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me reiterate what Tim just said which is really important; we are really focused on getting more capital back to our stockholders. That is -- and the best way to do that is perform well, as we are doing, and have the capital we have. Tim said, it is a lot of work the CCAR but we are looking forward to it.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL: I guess I just wanted to ask another question on the margin. I guess was there anything that sort of like surprised you in September I guess just relative to where you had been suggesting a month or so ago that it would be. It came in a little worse than that guidance.

And then I guess along those lines, I think in the past you have been pretty clear that you expected the margin to come under pressure, but by the same token, had hoped that the NII would be able to continue to grow. Do you think you can, off of this quarter's base, still generate positive NII growth?

TIM SLOAN: So a few questions in there and all good ones. The first one, our deposit growth was a little bit stronger in September than we had expected, which again is terrific. That is the way that we get most of our customers into Wells Fargo so we are happy with that. And, secondly, we had fewer resolutions than we had estimated.

But I think it is really important to step back and just reflect on what has happened with our net interest margin over the past year. Certainly the 25 basis point decline this quarter is high, but when you think about it year over year our net interest margin is down 18 basis points.

So when you think about what has happened during that year, on a net interest margin decline of 18 basis points our net interest income is up 1%, we have grown deposits by $51 billion, we have originated $519 billion of residential mortgages, our efficiency ratio has improved from 59.5% to 57.1%. And so when you total all this up -- I am sorry, and credit has improved. Even adjusted for the OCC guidance, our loan losses are down 50 basis points.

I say all that because, while net interest margin is an important factor to look at, what we really focus on is earnings per share and earnings per share are up 22% over that same period. And I think that really reflects the strength of our diversified model.

There is no question that in this low rate environment the NIM will continue to be under pressure. Again, we don't believe that. The 25 basis point decline that we saw this quarter is representative of what we will see in the future, but what we do believe is that our performance is going to be representative of what we are going to see in the future because we have got a very strong diversified model.

And in answer to your last question, I do believe that we can grow net interest income over time even in the face of a declining net interest margin.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay, perfect. That is helpful color, I appreciate it.

Then I just wanted to switch back to the decision to portfolio some of the conforming mortgages as well. I definitely understand the rationale relative to some of the other investment alternatives that you would have, but I guess by the same token putting on mortgages at historically low rates potentially introduces some [rate] risk of its own in the future. How did you kind of square that dynamic when you guys thought about it?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I think that is a very fair point or a good question because any time we put any asset on the books we have got to think about the risks. It is not only about what kind of return we can get in the short term, but it is about the risk of owning that asset, whether it is a loan or a security or whatever.

And so, in making this decision, we took into consideration interest rate risk, credit risk, as well as concentration risk. We are very comfortable, given the size of our loan portfolio and the level of our liquidity and the level of interest rate risk that we have at the company, that this incremental increase of $9.8 billion and the incremental mortgages that we mentioned that we will likely put on this quarter on the balance sheet is not going to significantly or materially affect interest rate risk or credit risk.

JOHN STUMPF: The thing about it is we have done this in the past. Again, it is one of the tools that we have, one of the levers we can pull, and we see a very nice difference between the yield there versus if we bought RMBS as a security. Again, there you are paying 105 or 106. You are paying a premium and if those things pay off early you have that premium amortization, so there is a lot of balancing here.

But we have done this before, we are aware of that. It is something we think about.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Good, perfect. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. So a couple of quick questions here. Just first in terms of retaining the conforming fixed rate mortgages, the $9.8 billion, why is that a better decision than maybe retaining jumbos that might have a higher yield and have equal or better credit quality?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, Ed, we do that too.

JOHN STUMPF: Absolutely.

ED NAJARIAN: But given your giant origination volume, can't you just do more of that versus 30-year fixed conforming?

TIM SLOAN: Well, we would like to do more of that and we have got a very strong nonconforming or jumbo origination capability and we want to and will continue to grow that. But in addition to that, we thought it was a good idea, given the risk/return alternatives, to hold these conforming mortgages too.

And this is just an example of how we think about managing the Company for the long term. I mean we could have taken that $9.8 billion and had a gain on sale, which would have been fine and increased the short-term earnings. But we thought it was better to hold these high credit quality mortgages to generate income over a longer period of time.

And, again, we retain all of our nonconforming jumbo mortgages. We do not sell those.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Then given what you have done to sort of the overall accretable yield balance, taking that number up to almost $19 billion, what you talked about previously, should we expect $495 million of quarterly accretable yield through NII to be a higher number in future quarters?

TIM SLOAN: It is going to be higher. I would describe it as being slightly higher, because it is over a longer period of time, 13 years, plus there is the disproportionate return that comes toward the end of the term of those mortgages. But there is no question it will have a slightly positive impact on the net interest margin.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. Then this question is, again, kind of specific to the margin.

Looking at your C&I and your real estate mortgage yields, sort of prepared for the big drop in the commercial real estate mortgage yield from 4.60% to 4.05% because I think that was obviously inflated in 2Q from the cash recoveries. But we also saw a pretty big drop in the yield on the C&I portfolio itself.

Is there something going on in there other than the rate environment and competition? Was there some cash recovery in there as well in 2Q?

TIM SLOAN: There was a little bit of cash recovery in the second quarter. Again, you also have the impact of the liquidating portfolio kind of running off, but I wouldn't -- and, again, if you look back on even a five quarter basis you have seen some volatility in that number. We also -- there was also an impact from some lower loan recoveries that we got in the second quarter, but I wouldn't necessarily look at that decline -- the level of that decline as a trend.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Would you feel like that 3.84% number on the C&I yield is something that should remain more stable going forward?

TIM SLOAN: Gosh, I hope so. There is no question that there is a fair amount of competition out there for assets. But, again, I don't think you should look at the 4.21% to the 3.84% as a trend that you are going to see on a quarterly basis. There certainly could be some impact and some future decline, but the 3.84% number feels pretty good.

ED NAJARIAN: And then lastly and I will stop, on operating costs probably absorbing clearly some extra costs related to the strong mortgage origination pipeline and volume. Can you maybe frame operating expenses for us over the next few quarters sort of in two pieces? Number one, what we might see in terms of core expense reductions apart from mortgage, and number two, what we might see in terms of savings on the mortgage side as the refi volume ultimately comes down.

TIM SLOAN: Well, our guess is it relates to the -- and our best estimate in terms of refi volume is that that is going to continue on for a few quarters. So I don't expect any sort of decline in expenses until that occurs. Again, I doubt it is going to be next quarter or the quarter after that.

In terms of other expenses, clearly when you look at the mortgage business we have other environmental expenses that are elevated for things like the consent order, the servicing settlement, and just the fact that while the portfolio has continued to improve we still have higher than normal costs. My guess is that those are going to begin to tail down sometime probably in the second half of next year.

And in terms of then just the base operating expenses, as John mentioned, as I mentioned, we are continuing to look at expense reduction in the Company but we want to do it in a way that is very focused on the efficiency ratio. Because in this environment, while we want to be more efficient, we don't want to give up good revenue opportunities.

John, I don't know if --

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, let me maybe expand on it a bit. Ed, you are asking the right question. We still think expenses are too high here, but we have also said we are not going to be slavish to a number and turn away revenue.

So if we look year over year compared to third quarter of 2011, we are up now in expenses of $500 million but are revenue is up $1.6 billion. So we think that was a good trade.

That being said, we can be more efficient. There are some expenses that we are getting through compliance and consent and other things that we will get better at, that will go away. But even in spite of all of that we still think we have -- our operating assets are too high and we are focused on that.

But we want to do it smartly, and a 57% efficiency ratio we have come a long way from the low 60%s. We have picked up 240 basis points in a year and we still think we have more room to go. And it is well within our guidelines of 55% to 59%.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, that is very helpful. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Good morning, guys. Just back to the margin commentary, can you help us frame just kind of the magnitude of how much pressure we should still expect going forward after the re-stepping down to the 3.66% range? Is it going to be in the 5 to 10 range, or how do we think of the output given the number of moving parts still?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I know it can be a little bit frustrating to try to predict any sort of decline in the net interest margin, and part of that is because on a quarterly basis it can be pretty volatile. I mean if you look back a year ago in the third quarter our net interest margin was down 17 basis points and then it was up in the fourth quarter and then it was flat for a couple of quarters.

So if you step back and look at it year over year at being down 18 basis points, could we see another 18 to 20 basis points decline in a year? Sure we could. Could it be up to 25? You bet. Could it be 15?

And so you could see that much change, but we could also see another quarter in the next quarter where it is up. Again, what we focus on is not managing to the net interest margin. Again, the reason for that is the following.

We could have easily increased our net interest margin by making some bad short-term decisions. For example, we could increase the duration of our investment portfolio.

We could go out and buy a lot of securities that have good short-term yield but have higher credit risk. That may be a good short-term decision in terms of managing to the net interest margin. It could be a bad long-term decision in terms of how we are managing this company for the long term, which again is why we don't spend a whole lot of time being focused on managing to that margin.

But, again, back to the original question, could we see the same kind of decline year over year that we have seen this year? We certainly could.

JOHN STUMPF: On the other side, think of it, the other half of our revenue comes from noninterest income and we have shown very good growth in that area. So even though -- as we gain new households, new customers, if they are not borrowing or if spreads are lower there we do a lot of other things with these folks and we have seen good growth in that area. So overall revenue year over year up 8%. Those are pretty good numbers.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. And did I hear correctly from the earlier question, I think it was Scott who asked, that the NII should and can improve from here despite the pressure on a linked-quarter basis?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. Yes, absolutely.

TIM SLOAN: Sure.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay. And then is the margin pressure, is this going to last for you and it feels like the industry through next year as well if this current environment remains?

TIM SLOAN: Yes.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Then on expenses, the target of 55% to 59%, should we think about that being a target for next year as well?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, you know it's good, that is a good question. We announced the 55% to 59% at investor day in May and we did it at investor day because we didn't want that to be viewed as a range that was for one quarter or two quarters. That is the range that we believe that we can operate in.

Again, there is going to be some seasonality in our expenses. Our expenses are generally up a little bit in the first quarter because of compensation related items, but we think that we can operate it within that range and we will be using that range for the time being.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. I wanted to follow up on something, Tim, I think you just said about the mortgage-related costs related to like legacy assets, or the environmental costs, as you referred to them. You said something about hopefully they will start to tail off back half of next year.

I realize that is probably somewhat of a guesstimate, but why is it taking so long for those costs to come down with home prices rising and some more guidelines on the servicing side? Like why do you think it is good to be another year before we see a meaningful decline in those areas?

TIM SLOAN: Let me separate them into two groups, Matt. There are the costs that are related to just managing the portion of the problem loan portfolio, whether it is in mortgage or anywhere else within the Company. And those are continuing to come down. So I didn't mean to imply, and apologize if I did, that we are -- we don't think those are going to come down until next year.

The costs that I was referring to are what I would describe as the environmental costs related to complying with the consent order and also the servicing settlement. Those are works in process right now and it is going to take us through next year to be able to kind of work through the servicing settlement and comply with the consent order.

So there is really kind of two different categories, Matt.

JOHN STUMPF: For example, the new servicing standards just became effective, I think, October 1. I mean we had front run at that, but it takes a while to get those really worked into your system and become efficient on those.

MATT O'CONNOR: And how much are the costs -- how much are those, the consent and servicing related costs in the third quarter?

TIM SLOAN: What we disclosed in the supplement, Matt, is that the third-party costs related to the consent order about $100 million a quarter. As it relates to the costs for the servicing settlement, we didn't disclose those but assume there is some addition to that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. So I guess the bigger portion, though, is just the cost of servicing some of the troubled borrowers. That part is coming down, because I would think that the biggest piece of (multiple speakers)?

TIM SLOAN: That will continue to come down as the portfolio continues to improve, which is what we have been seeing.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separately on the mortgage side, how elevated are the production-related expenses? Just like in absolute dollar what are those costs this quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I am not going to disclose that because then everybody would know exactly what our margins are and that is an important from a competitive standpoint.

MATT O'CONNOR: Is there anything you can size around? Like, year-over-year expenses are up X and X percent of that is due to higher mortgage, or any way to frame it a little bit for us?

TIM SLOAN: No.

JOHN STUMPF: I can tell you this, that it takes more time now to underwrite a loan. I mean there is more expense on that but we are working through those things.

MATT O'CONNOR: I mean I guess just at a very high level it seems like there is some puts and takes on the production-related expenses. A lot more leg work needs to be done to get loans approved, whether it is refi or purchase, yet I think the headcount add has been a lot less to the industry and technology is better.

So it is just hard to put it all together. I mean it seems like there is some elevation on expenses but maybe not as much as, say, a few years ago when hirings were more meaningful.

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I think it is a really fair question, and in fairness to the entire industry or anybody that is in the mortgage business today, there is a lot of change that is going on. And so I think it is hard to kind of put a hard dollar cost to this has really been what the impact of the change, because it is still a work in process.

I would have you step back and just, again, focus on the overall efficiency ratio for the Company which has continued to improve over this last year, as John said, by about 2.5% and even in the last quarter by over 100 basis points.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: But we are adding people to deal with volumes and to get the throughput.

MATT O'CONNOR: And you don't disclose the headcount in the mortgage company do you?

TIM SLOAN: Not separately, no.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & COMPANY: Thanks guys. Good morning. Just one more kind of all-encompassing question on expenses.

So understanding the efficiency ratio points that you make at the top of the Company and the progression that has been made with total expenses continuing to come down for the last couple of quarters, can you give us a framework of how to just think about the overall expense base just going ahead? Because I would think you still have some annualization of the cost-saving programs, you have got the environmental costs that Matt just asked about, and then there is this unanswerable question right now about how much is in the mortgage business.

So can you just help us frame how you're going to be thinking about just the overall cost base from a dollars perspective as we think about 2013 over 2012, just from an operating leverage perspective?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think you made an important point there at the end and that is we are looking at operating leverage and we are looking at efficiency ratio. And so we are not focused on saying, look, here is hard dollar reduction that we want to see year over year. What we want to see is we want to see sequential improvement in our efficiency ratio.

Now, again, the first quarter in every year is going to be a little bit different, but the way that we are measuring our people, we are measuring the businesses is to see that sequential improvement in the efficiency ratio. So we don't have a specific dollar target for next year, but we want to improve the efficiency ratio so we can get down to stay in the middle to get down to the lower end of the range that we set.

JOHN STUMPF: And I would also say that we want to make sure that for businesses like mortgage that have volume differences, one year it could be much higher [than another]. When volumes do ebb or the business contracts we want to be able to adjust expenses in a similar way. That is extremely important in that business.

KEN USDIN: So I guess the broad takeaway is that next year you would still see the ability to improve the efficiency ratio from where it currently stands?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, yes. Again, what we are looking for -- the way that we measure our businesses internally is to look for sequential improvement in operating leverage. In every business, regardless of what the business is.

JOHN STUMPF: Absolutely.

TIM SLOAN: So that it takes into consideration not only the revenue opportunities that the businesses are seeing, and you have seen that in our results this quarter across the board in many businesses, but also asking them to become more efficient at the same time.

KEN USDIN: Okay, got it. My second question is just about the trust and investment fees business. Obviously had good sequential improvement. I was just wondering if you could provide a little color about the momentum you are seeing there.

Also, obviously the summer was a tough environment on the volumes-based side of things but there was still growth in the business. So are we seeing an incremental bit of momentum there in the core business? And just any changes you are seeing in terms of customer activity and the outlook for growth in that part of the Company?

TIM SLOAN: I think a couple things. One, we did see and we are continuing to see some momentum there. I think David Carroll at our investor day did a terrific job in kind of walking you through the opportunities that we see in that business -- in his business.

Then in our investment banking business John Shrewsberry did a nice job of kind of walking you through that at investor day. So we are seeing some good momentum.

And I think the other thing that is really important when you think about the trust and investment fees is that the mix is also improving so that we are seeing more of the mix coming from advisory fees and asset management fees as opposed to just transactional activity. So we are optimistic that we can continue to grow, not only within those businesses but also that line item.

JOHN STUMPF: Part of the secret sauce there is David and his team's ability to work across businesses within the Company. So he works very closely with the community banking side led by Carrie Tolstedt, very closely with Dave Hoyt and his wholesale side, so there is lots work together because many of our customers who call us their bank keep their wealth someplace else. So we have huge opportunity in this business.

KEN USDIN: Okay, great. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & CO.: Thank you very much. I hate to go back to the NIM, but I wanted to talk a little bit about the securities portfolio. It did increase a little bit, but what type of -- and you talked about this in the opening remarks about some of the NIM pressure coming from the securities portfolio.

But what type of CPR rates are you seeing? I know you have some really high-yielding stuff that is probably prepaying very fast.

TIM SLOAN: You know what, Paul, that's a fair question. I don't have the CPR rates on an individual security basis handy. We can get back to you with that.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Then the other question is -- can you at least tell us where it is coming on? Is it coming on in the $1.5 billion once the new stuff is coming on board?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, there is no question that we saw some increase in the CPR levels in some of the newer securities, but again we will get back to with some more detail.

PAUL MILLER: No, I understand. What yield are you buying new securities on?

JOHN STUMPF: Oh, what yield. I am sorry. It is whatever the yield is today in the market.

I think that the more important point is that we -- when we saw rates decline significantly and then we saw the demand for the underlying securities really increase so that you were looking at buying these at a significant premium, that is the point at which we said, you know what, this just doesn't feel very good to us in terms of making a long-term decision and where we focused on keeping more of the conforming mortgages.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. And one real quick question. What is -- you might have it somewhere, but I can't see it. What is your annualized servicing fee?

TIM SLOAN: Our annualized servicing fee?

JOHN STUMPF: On mortgage?

PAUL MILLER: No, on the -- for your servicing portfolio. I'm sorry, guys.

TIM SLOAN: 63 basis points? You mean the valuation?

PAUL MILLER: No, that is your capitalized cost of servicing. Your annualized servicing fee.

JOHN STUMPF: The 25 bps?

TIM SLOAN: It's 25 basis points.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: My question is on mortgages past, present, and future, so let's start with the mortgages past. I mean the decision to retain the mortgages on the balance sheet; do you still have the option to sell those retained mortgages? Because you are passing up some revenues today, it is tying up more capital, and there is a trade-off there, isn't there?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, there is and we think it is a good trade-off to make today. But holding these mortgages today doesn't preclude our ability to sell them in the future.

MIKE MAYO: So you could sell them today or in a month or in three months, you think?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I don't think we could sell them tomorrow, but we could sell them in the future certainly.

JOHN STUMPF: You have to securitize them.

TIM SLOAN: You got to get them wrapped, but, yes, we could do that.

MIKE MAYO: And then as far as the mortgages today, you said the applications were down from the second quarter to the third quarter and you might have thought with QE3 the application volume would have increased. So what has the application volume done from the end of the third quarter until today?

TIM SLOAN: Well, let me parse your mortgage present for a minute. The pipeline at the end of the third quarter was down slightly from the end of the second quarter by I think $5 billion or $6 billion. It is still very high.

Our mortgage volume in the third quarter was higher than in the second quarter. And maybe this gets into a little bit of the mortgage future, what we are seeing so far this quarter is that volume is up.

JOHN STUMPF: And remember we got out of the wholesale business in the third quarter.

MIKE MAYO: All right. So volume is up so far this quarter versus the second quarter, so that should be good for the fourth quarter?

TIM SLOAN: I hope.

JOHN STUMPF: If it continues.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. But the more general question for the future, you said this should last maybe a few more quarters as far as the mortgage boom in terms of the revenues but then it falls off. So my question is could you offset that fall off entirely through actions at the mortgage company, or would that be where the diversified model comes into play and you would expect other business lines to pick up the slack?

TIM SLOAN: Well, there is a lot of variables in the question you just asked. What is the economy going to look like, where are interest rates going to be? But I think what you have seen this quarter, and not only what you have seen this quarter but what you have seen for the last few quarters and the last year, is that because we have got a diversified model you are seeing growth in a number of businesses.

I can't promise you that the quarter that we see a decline in the mortgage business that every one of those businesses is going to be able to pick up the complete slack. I hope it does. That is what we have seen historically when we have gone through these peaks and valleys in the mortgage business, but, again, that is the benefit of the model that we have got in that we have got other levers to pull. There is other horses that are pulling the stagecoach.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Mike, another thing you have to think about is 75% of our mortgage volume this past quarter was refinance and 25% was purchase money. That is still a very low overall purchase money market as we see real estate continue to improve, as refis ebb, we might see the purchase volume pick up. So that is a natural offset.

Furthermore, as the purchasing volume or if rates rise and those things slow down, then the servicing asset becomes more valuable. So we have all those things going on besides the diversified model.

MIKE MAYO: But at the end of the day, even with the improvement in the servicing assets, even with more purchase volume, even with the expense cuts in the mortgage unit, chances are you would still have to rely on some, as you would say, horses outside the mortgage area?

TIM SLOAN: You bet, absolutely. That is the exciting part. We feed them all; they are all pulling.

MIKE MAYO: Just last follow-up, because this is the main question I think, how you manage to hand off from the mortgage boom to the time you cut the expenses? How do you know when to start cutting those expenses? What signs are you looking at?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, the mortgage business, as you could imagine, this is not the first -- we have been doing this a long time. We have terrific leaders there and they see volumes on an -- not on an hourly but a daily basis, and they have been very good at dialing up and dialing down to adjust to volumes.

Now there is, surely, a fixed component there. But we have done this -- this is not the first up or down we have seen in this business. We have seen many of those.

MIKE MAYO: But isn't this time different? I mean if we have QE4 that could change your whole analysis, right? Isn't this (multiple speakers)

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Mike, you are exactly right. We didn't know QE3 was coming and now we are adding people. And if QE3 lasts, if the volumes last for 12 months versus six months we will make adjustments up or down based on that.

MIKE MAYO: Are you able to say how many people you have added?

JOHN STUMPF: I don't think -- no, we have not said that but we are adding people.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. All right, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Greg Ketron, UBS.

GREG KETRON, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. I guess a variation of all the mortgage questions that you have answered this morning. Kind of looking out into 2013 the MBA forecast calls for volumes to be off maybe 20% to as high as 30%.

I know that MBA forecast is about as accurate as a weather forecast, but if you look at that type of scenario are there things that you can do, maybe on the pricing side or product side, and increase market share in light of a scenario that would have mortgage production coming down that much?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I mean, yes. You could always lower your prices and take up share, but I don't necessarily think that is a good decision. Always going to be a good decision from a profit standpoint.

It is a very competitive market out there. We don't run the business based upon share; we run the business based upon profitability. Our first call continues to be focused on our retail origination network and then also, secondly, our correspondent network.

As you said, the MBA forecast it could be right, could be wrong. I think everybody has been surprised at how long this refinance boom has lasted. As I said, we think it is going to last for a few more quarters and, again, at some point it is going to slow down.

As John said, there might be a mix change. We hope there will be and there will be more purchase money mortgages.

But, again, the important thing is we have been through this before. This isn't something that the folks in our mortgage business or the management team at this company hasn't seen before in terms of cyclicality in the mortgage business, and we will adjust to it.

GREG KETRON: Great. And then in terms of the -- I'm sorry.

JOHN STUMPF: I was just going to add, remember on our mortgage business half of our business is through correspondents. So the adjustments we need to make is really on a 16% share or something.

GREG KETRON: Okay, great. In terms of what you are seeing maybe so far this quarter, we know if you look at the primary to secondary mortgage spread that widened out quite a bit, especially after QE3 was announced. Is it your sense that you are to continue to see mortgage rates work their way down and maybe some pressure on that spread than the fourth quarter?

TIM SLOAN: You know, I don't know the answer to that. Clearly the spreads are attractive today. The costs are up, too, and the GC was up also. We are hopeful that the margins will continue to be at their present level, but it is competitive out there.

And I think the one thing we know from history in the mortgage business is that when you're at a high level of margin there generally tends to be more pressure down than up. Again, it is competitive but it is a very attractive business for us to be in. We are really pleased we are originating one of every three mortgages that is done in the country.

JOHN STUMPF: And it is also a very good deal for consumers. I mean consumers are getting bargains these days if you look at the rates on the street. This is very -- and this is probably the best time ever to buy a house, most affordable.

GREG KETRON: Right. Well, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Question on the nonperformers. It is just another way of getting at the expense question, because obviously you have got carrying costs associated with nonaccrual and foreclosed assets.

I am just wondering about how much more rapidly we could expect you would try to bring this balance down. We have had a change in the short sale program from the FHFA, which I would expect would be one opportunity to accelerate this shrinkage, but maybe I am wrong there. Maybe you could give us some color on what your thoughts are.

TIM SLOAN: Sure. Betsy, I think if you look at kind of that five-quarter chart that we had in the supplement and go back to the third quarter last year, our total nonperforming assets were about, I am going to round here, about $27 billion. The improvement over the last year has been pretty significant with the exception that we have had the OCC guidance in the first quarter and then in this quarter that raised it.

What we are seeing is $1 billion-plus decline in NPAs, more or less, on a quarterly basis, absent that guidance. And our expectation is that it is reasonable to assume that that can continue.

BETSY GRASECK: But could you do anything to accelerate that?

TIM SLOAN: We could. And we look at that all the time in terms of what is the best economic return for the Company. Not necessarily driven by ratios but -- yes. And so not only do we look at working out loans on a loan-by-loan basis, but also in the past quarters we have sold packages of nonperforming assets. We will continue to look at that and if the economics are there and if the economics get better then we could certainly accelerate that.

JOHN STUMPF: Tim is right about that. It is based on economics. I mean we don't feel there is any reason to do something that is uneconomic, but if it is economic that would be terrific.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure. Does the short sale rule change anything in terms of helping you accelerate this or not really?

TIM SLOAN: Not really.

JOHN STUMPF: Not really. Because most short sales never get to the balance sheet, right? I mean if it is -- many of those are done on behalf of our investors so it doesn't spend much time, if anything, in your NPA area.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, John and Tim. How are you?

JOHN STUMPF: Hey, Chris.

TIM SLOAN: Good morning, Chris. How are you doing?

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I am doing well. I promise I won't ask you a margin or a mortgage question.

TIM SLOAN: We are getting pretty good at them (multiple speakers)

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Yes, you could do a debate, I think, given all the prep you have had.

I am looking at your cash and your Fed funds sold at the end of period. You are almost up to $120 billion, pretty darn close to 9% of your total assets. I understand you had mentioned you are more prudent in terms of reinvestment right now given where rates are.

My question is, though, it looks like you are hoarding cash a bit though. Are there any opportunities out there for a typical, the type of loan pool purchases you have made in the past? It has been kind of slow of late. Are you seeing any type of ramp up in those opportunities out there?

TIM SLOAN: You are correct. We didn't have a medium-size or large acquisition that we did this quarter like we have had over the last few quarters. I wouldn't necessarily conclude that that is a trend; that we won't continue to see those.

We still have a pretty robust pipeline of opportunities out there and so we are not necessarily hoarding cash to make sure that we have got the ability to do it. Because even if we had $20 billion or $30 billion less of cash, we would be more than liquid enough to be able to accomplish an acquisition.

We will continue to be very focused on looking at good acquisition opportunities. We are very pleased with what we have been able to accomplish in the last year and we are hopeful to see -- that we will continue to see those types of opportunities. But the pipeline is still there.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, and I would say that the level is more because we can't -- the opportunities are not -- the risk/reward is not the right kind of thing and we haven't found anything that makes sense for us. But if it would be half that I would be -- if we could find a great asset that would be great. We didn't pick that number per se.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Thank you very much. Have a great weekend, guys.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Good morning. I want to take us back into the margin and mortgage just for a second, but a little different twist.

If you are looking at the variable income, what I am trying to figure out is if you net the five quarters over this period of time you end up with a negative 5 basis points. So in general you know you (technical difficulty) start at some point.

I am just curious, you say that -- would you think that the resolutions are lower than normal, abnormal? Kind of where are we at going forward on that particular item?

TIM SLOAN: Marty, for this quarter the resolutions were a little bit -- were clearly lower than what we have seen in the last four, five, six quarters.

MARTY MOSBY: So you would -- because I was looking at them last quarter. They were obviously elevated, but if you look back over time that was more than compensated with the drop off that you had in this quarter.

TIM SLOAN: That is correct.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. And then when you look at mortgage, one of the things that is interesting to me is as you look at the roll-off of the income that you are getting there, one of the things that helps cushion that blow is in periods when you have higher revenue potential you find ways to kind of offset that. So in other words, if you look at holding the mortgages that would have lowered to revenues by, like you said, a little bit more than $200 million.

In this quarter you adjusted your servicing costs and you incorporated a higher cost going forward; that lowered the number by 482. So if you look at those two adjustments that were kind of incorporated in the $2.8 billion, there was a potential to earn $3.5 billion, which is about 20% higher, 20% to 25% higher than what you actually earned. So part of being able to cushion the future run-off is that you just kind of shave some of the peak off which helps cushion the blow later on.

TIM SLOAN: Well, you are correct, Marty, particularly as it relates to the decision to hold the conforming production and keep it on balance sheet and to have that income flow over a longer period of time. During the term of the mortgages as opposed to recognize it as gain on sale. So, yes, I mean there is no question that when you look at the mortgage business today it is very strong.

MARTY MOSBY: And just all of it is not flowing to the bottom line because of the couple of things that happened in the sense of the servicing costs and holding the mortgages. So you could have recognized if every quarter you are not going to have servicing costs be adjusted higher. That is not something you normally do.

TIM SLOAN: I certainly hope -- I hope that that is correct, Marty, but we did this quarter. We thought it was prudent to do it, but I hope we don't have a repeat of that in the next few quarters.

MARTY MOSBY: Then just kind of lastly, putting all that together down to -- if you think of the decision you made to hold more mortgages, the decision to hold more liquidity, you are going through a process of kind of storing up revenues that you can deploy at a better time down in the future. So the length and the life of that mortgage that you held will give you income through the cycle and over the next probably seven to 10 years.

If you look at the liquidity, when interest rates eventually begin to rise, which is when refis come down, you can deploy that at the much more advantageous time and create some positive there. So just on those two decisions that you have tangibly made there is about $0.04 of earnings in this quarter that helps future earnings down the road.

TIM SLOAN: Marty, that is a great summation of how we think about the Company over the long term. We have got to make good long-term decisions every day as opposed to let's make a good short-term decision that doesn't have a good long-term benefit. And so that is exactly how we think about managing this company.

MARTY MOSBY: My past history is -- I think the way that this works the best is managing the quarters in which you have extra earnings for future, investing into the future, versus really taking the weaker quarters and trying to prop them up. You make the most traction in creating future earnings streams by taking those peaks and putting them out into future quarters. So I appreciate it.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: My question was actually asked about 12 different ways, so we can call it a day. Thanks.

TIM SLOAN: All right, thanks, Chris. Appreciate it.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, thanks, everybody, for joining us and your interest and the way you follow our company. We will see you at the end of the fourth quarter. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | nitv : Interview | ntra : Transcript | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020121026e8ac00107
  


 HD
 Q2  2012 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,758 words
   PD
13 July 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina; and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will review second-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement. Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on WellsFargo.com.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim; and good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us today. Before I discuss our results this quarter, I want to take a moment to recognize that 160 years ago today, on July 13, 1852, Wells Fargo first opened its doors for business right here in San Francisco. So it is our birthday today. It has been quite a remarkable ride for the stagecoach for the last 160 years.

During that period of time we have been through many economic cycles. While the current economic recovery remains uneven, our strong performance in the second quarter reflects the strength of our franchise, the benefit of our diversified business model, and the advantage of an outstanding team working together to serve our customers. Our focus on meeting our customers' financial needs resulted in continued strong deposit growth, growth in consumer and commercial loans, and record cross-sell.

Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the quarter. We generated record net income, up 17% from a year ago; and EPS was also up 17%. Pretax pre-prevision profits increased 12%, and revenue grew 4% from a year ago. We had positive operating leverage, and our expense efficiency ratio improved by 300 basis points from a year ago.

Retail banking cross-sell reached a new record of 6 products per household for the entire community bank consumer base. Credit quality continued to improve, with our charge-off ratio declining to 1.15%, the lowest level since 2007 and down 37 basis points from a year ago. Our profitability ratios reflect these strong results, with our ROA growing to 1.41%, up 14 basis points from a year ago, the highest it has been in four years. Our return on equity increased to 12.86%, up 94 basis points from a year ago.

We purchased 53 million shares of common stock during the second quarter while we continued to grow capital. Our performance reflects growth throughout our businesses.

Our mortgage business generated record applications in the second quarter of $208 billion, up over 90% from a year ago and up 11% from last quarter. Obviously, the low rate environment is driving strong refi application volume.

But purchase volume was up over $19 billion or 43% in the first quarter, indicating increased strength in the overall housing market, where we have seen increases in sales and pricing in markets throughout the country, even in some of the hardest hit areas during the downturn.

We remain focused on our commitment to helping homeowners stay in their homes, with over 770,000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications since the beginning of 2009. We have also helped nearly 6.2 million customers secure new low-rate loans for home purchases or refinancing since the beginning of 2009. The strength of our mortgage business is just one example of how we have been able to generate new customer relationships and better serve our existing customers.

We grew commercial loans through portfolio acquisitions and organically; increased credit card penetration of the retail banking households to 31%; grew retail brokerage managed account assets by 7% from a year ago; and small business checking accounts are up nearly 4% from a year ago. This is just the beginning of the many opportunities we have to capitalize on the strength of our franchise and achieve the financial goals we shared with you at Investor Day.

Tim Sloan, our CFO, will now provide more details on our financial results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of our quarterly supplement, which starts on page 2. And then John and I will take your questions.

As John highlighted, we had a very strong quarter with record earnings of $4.6 billion, up 9% from the first quarter and 17% from a year ago. Earnings per share were a record $0.82, also up 9% from last quarter and 17% from a year ago.

This was our 10th consecutive quarter of earnings per share growth. Our ability to consistently grow earnings per share over the past two and a half years, when the economy has faced many challenges, reflects the benefit of our diversified business model.

I am going to start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our results this quarter, beginning on page 4; and then I will add more detail later in my remarks. We grew both our total and our core loan portfolios. Loan growth was broad-based and benefited from acquisitions and organic growth in both commercial and consumer portfolios.

Our securities portfolio declined $3.4 billion as new investments were more than offset by called lower-yield securities and runoff. We remain cautious on how we invest in this interest rate and credit environment.

Turning to the income statement, revenue declined $347 million from the first quarter, as growth in net interest income and fee growth across many of our businesses was offset by declines in trading, driven by lower deferred compensation plan investment income, and lower gains on equity investments.

Our expense efficiency ratio improved to 58.2%, as expenses declined $596 million from the first quarter, consistent with our expectations. Expenses related to the settlement with the Department of Justice which we announced yesterday have been fully accrued for as of the end of the second quarter.

Let me now cover our results in a little bit more detail. As shown on page 6, period-end loans were up $8.7 billion from the first quarter with growth across a number of commercial and consumer portfolios. The liquidating portfolio declined by $5.1 billion, and our core loan portfolio grew by $13.8 billion.

Commercial loans increased $8.3 billion, including $6.9 billion of loans acquired in the purchase of BNP Paribas's North American energy lending business and the purchase of WestLB's subscription finance portfolio. Our strong balance sheet has enabled us to take advantage of these opportunities in this economic environment.

Our portfolio purchases are in businesses we understand and include both new customers and customers we already serve, providing us the opportunity to deepen these relationships.

Consumer loans increased $375 million from the first quarter, as growth in first mortgages, auto, and credit card was partially offset by declines in junior lien mortgages. Average loan balances were down $359 million from the first quarter, which didn't benefit from the late-quarter close of the WestLB portfolio. However, many commercial and consumer loan portfolios increased average balances on a linked-quarter basis.

We had strong core deposit growth, with average core deposits up $10.1 billion from the first quarter, up $73.2 billion or 9% from a year ago. Core deposits were 115% of average loans.

Average core checking and savings deposits were up 12% from a year ago and were 93% of average core deposits. We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for seven consecutive quarters. Deposit costs in the second quarter were 19 basis points, down 1 basis point from the first quarter and down 9 basis points from a year ago.

Tax equivalent net interest income increased $155 million from the first quarter, driven by growth in earning assets of $16 billion, while our net interest margin was unchanged at 3.91%. The NIM included a 7 basis point benefit from higher variable items, including PCI loan resolutions in the second quarter.

These variable sources of income can be lumpy from quarter to quarter, and we would expect continued pressure on our NIM as the balance sheet reprices in the current low rate environment. But as we have said and stated many times in the past, we remain focused on growing net interest income.

Non-interest income declined $496 million from the first quarter, down 5%. The decline was partially due to $377 million of lower trading gains on $218 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results, which was offset in employee benefit expense. Equity gains were also lower this quarter, down $122 million.

However, we continue to benefit from our diverse businesses, with growth in deposit service charges, trust and investment fees, card fees, processing fees, insurance, and mortgage banking.

Mortgage banking revenue increased $23 million from the first quarter, with continued strong originations and margins. Results included a $669 million provision for mortgage repurchase losses, which was $239 million higher than the first quarter; and I will discuss this more later.

Mortgage originations were $131 billion in the second quarter, up $2 billion from the strong first-quarter volumes, and were more than double what they were a year ago. 16% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP, similar to last quarter. The unclosed mortgage pipeline at quarter end was a very strong $102 billion, up 29% from the first quarter and the second highest pipeline in our history.

Turning to expenses, non-interest expenses were down $596 million from the first quarter, driven by lower personnel expenses. Commission and incentive compensation expense decreased $63 million, as declines in seasonally high first-quarter expenses were partially offset by higher revenue-driven compensation. Employee benefit expense was down $559 million from a seasonally high first quarter, and reflects lower deferred compensation expense.

Second quarter expenses also included $524 million of operating losses, $47 million higher than the first quarter. Operating losses this quarter included an accrual for the settlement with the Department of Justice.

We first highlighted our expense reduction program during our earnings call a year ago. One year later, we have made solid progress at reducing expenses and we remain committed to improving our efficiency.

However, a lot has changed over the past 12 months, particularly in terms of revenue opportunities. As shown on slide 11, we achieved positive operating leverage, with revenue growing $903 million while non-interest expense declined $78 million over the past year. As we said all along, we will not pass up revenue opportunities in order to meet a specific expense target number.

Mortgage volumes have been much stronger than anyone expected a year ago -- or even three months ago for that matter -- with originations more than double what they were a year ago. And our mortgage pipeline, which should lead to future revenue and expense growth, has also doubled.

So while we have reduced total FTEs for Wells Fargo by 1% over the past year, we have increased FTEs in consumer real estate by 19% to capture the revenue opportunities from strong mortgage volumes. In fact we added over 2,000 FTEs in mortgage in the second quarter.

It is also important to note that revenue and expenses reflect the success we have had in completing several business and loan portfolio acquisitions over the past year, and we have continue to invest in our growing businesses. Also, litigation accruals have been high; and our mortgage servicing costs have been elevated due to the mortgage servicing settlement and foreclosure consent orders.

As shown on page 12, even with all of this business and expense growth, we have achieved efficiency improvements with our efficiency ratio in the second quarter improving to 58.2%, the lowest level in nine quarters. This improvement in our efficiency ratio demonstrates the success we have had at expense reduction, even as we have grown revenue.

Let me mention just a few examples. We have reduced FTEs in high-cost geographies by 10% since the beginning of 2011. We have reduced occupancy expense by 7%, including real estate reductions of 3 million square feet. And we have reduced third-party spend, reflecting renegotiated contracts and changes in demand.

As we highlighted at Investor Day, we have established an efficiency ratio target of 55% to 59%, and we were in that range this quarter. We currently expect to be within our target range for the rest of 2012. We believe that focusing on our efficiency ratio is the best way to demonstrate expense management, as we continue to focus on revenue opportunities for both this year and in the future.

Due to our strong revenue opportunities, particularly in mortgage, we now expect our fourth-quarter expenses to be higher than our previous target of $11.25 billion. However, current expenses are still too high; and we expect them to trend down over the remainder of the year from second-quarter levels.

Let me now briefly highlight on our segment results starting on page 13. Community banking earned $2.5 billion in the second quarter, up 8% from the first quarter. Retail banking reached a record cross-sell of 6 products per household, up from 5.82 a year ago.

Cross-sell growth occurred throughout our franchise, with the West increasing to 6.37 and the East increasing to 5.52, up 27 basis points from a year ago. The momentum in the East is also demonstrated by core product sales growing by 5% from a year ago.

Credit card penetration in our retail banking households continued to increase to 31%, up from 27% a year ago. We generated record consumer auto originations in the second quarter of $6.6 billion, up 6% from the first quarter and up 18% from a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $1.9 billion in the second quarter, with record revenue of $6.1 billion, which was broad-based across our diversified commercial businesses. Revenue also benefited from increased PCI loan resolution income.

Wholesale banking had solid loan growth, up 1% from the first quarter and 11% from a year ago. The growth was broad-based, reflecting new and existing customer growth and our ability to capitalize on acquisition opportunities in this environment.

During the second quarter $3.7 billion of loans were acquired in the purchase of BNP Paribas's North American energy lending business, with nearly $9.4 billion in loan commitments. We also completed the acquisition of $3.2 billion of subscription finance loans from WestLB, with nearly $6 billion of commitments.

We have also had strong organic growth, with eight consecutive quarters of average loan growth in our commercial banking portfolio from new originations and increased line utilization from our middle-market customers.

Wealth, brokerage, and retirement earned $343 million, up 16% from the first quarter. Revenue declined $91 million from the first quarter. Excluding $122 million of lower deferred compensation plan investment results, revenue increased 1% driven by higher retail brokerage asset-based fees. Cross-sell continued to increase with our focus on meeting all of our customers' financial needs, growing to 10.22 up from 9.94 a year ago.

Credit quality continued to improve this quarter, as shown on page 16, with better performance across portfolios and credit metrics. Net charge-offs were down $195 million from the first quarter and were 1.15% of average loans, down 10 basis points from the last quarter. From the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009, charge-offs are down $3.2 billion or 59%.

Provision expense was $1.8 billion, including a $400 million reserve release. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.

Nonperforming assets were down $1.8 billion from the first quarter, down 11% from a year ago. The linked-quarter decline reflects a $1.4 billion reduction in NPLs and a $310 million decline in foreclosed assets.

NPAs were 3.21% of total loans in the second quarter, the lowest level since 2009. Loans 90 days or more past-due were down $276 million or 17% from the first quarter, with declines in both commercial and consumer portfolios. Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also improved from the first quarter and were also significantly better than a year ago.

We service $1.9 trillion of residential mortgages. This is a great business because of the new customer growth and cross-sell opportunities it provides, and our servicing portfolio positions us well to benefit from refinance waves like the one we are experiencing now, since existing customers usually give us the first chance when they refinance.

As we have been highlighting for several quarters, the delinquency and foreclosure rate on our servicing portfolio was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recently publicly available data, demonstrating the quality of our portfolio. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.14% in the first quarter, seasonally higher than -- excuse me; in the second quarter, seasonally higher than the first quarter, but down from 7.44% a year ago and a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.

As I mentioned earlier we added $669 million to our repurchase reserve this quarter, up $239 million from the first quarter. While outstanding repurchase demands were down this quarter, we added to our repurchase reserve primarily due to an increase in expected demands from the GSEs regarding 2006 to 2008 vintages.

As we have mentioned in prior quarters we continue to see behavioral changes from the agencies, as they seem to be conforming their practices. This addition to the reserve was a result of our ongoing dialogue with them, including some communication very late in the quarter. We believe the additional reserve we added this quarter is appropriate to cover losses associated with these higher expected demands.

As shown on page 20, our capital position continued to grow, with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 10.0%, up 10 basis points from the last quarter. Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under the latest Basel III proposals included in the Notices of Proposed Rulemaking issued by the regulators in June was 7.78% for the second quarter.

The proposed rules were largely consistent with our expectations, but changes in a few areas reduced our estimated ratio by approximately 30 basis points this quarter. Even after factoring in these changes, we are still in a strong capital position, as reflected in our estimated ratio; and we expect to achieve Basel minimums well in advance of any published guidelines.

We purchased 53 million shares in the second quarter and entered into a forward repurchase transaction for an estimated 11 million shares that is expected to settle in the third quarter. We redeemed $1.8 billion of trust preferred securities with an average coupon of 6.31% in the quarter. We have redeemed a total of $11.9 billion in TRUPS since the beginning of 2011.

In summary, our strong results again this quarter continued to demonstrate the benefit of our diversified business model. By following our consistent vision, we once again achieved record earnings, higher pretax pre-prevision profit, positive operating leverage with reduced expenses, and improved credit quality. Our return on assets was 1.41%, the highest in 16 quarters and within our target range of 1.3% to 1.6% that we provided on Investor Day. Our ROE grew to 12.86%, also within our target range of 12% to 15%.

And while we had great results this quarter, we have plenty of opportunity ahead for future growth, including a strong mortgage pipeline, recently completed acquisitions, improving cross-sell, increasing market share, and improving efficiency, all while remaining very focused on risk. I will now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, everybody. My first question is I guess I am just trying to figure out the movement in terms of core loan yield trends. So if I take out the $113 million of -- it seemed like outsize resolution that accreted back to your margin on the PCI book, it still seems as if your core loan yield would only be down less than 5%. So could you give us a sense of, A, was there some enhancement from the BNP transaction in your commercial loan yield this quarter? Or if not, what we are you doing differently to keep your pricing relatively resilient?

TIM SLOAN: That's a fair question, and I think your estimate of the impact of the special items is correct. Neither of the acquisitions -- either the BNP acquisition or WestLB -- really impacted the core loan yields. They were very similar to similar loans that we had in similar portfolios that we already had on the sheet. So there is really nothing in particular that is going on from a loan yield standpoint.

It is competitive out there. We continue to compete as best we can. We tend not to be -- to over-compete on price. We focus on competing on relationship and growing cross-sell. But there is nothing special there at all.

ERIKA PENALA: On the bond portfolio, you mentioned in the presentation that some lower yielding securities were called. What was the impact of that in terms of -- the AFS yields were up quarter over quarter. Was that primarily due to that, the lower yielding bonds getting called?

Also, if you could give us a sense in terms of what you were reinvesting in from a duration and yield perspective this quarter.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, that was a driver for the increase in the yield. Really what happened is we had some very high-quality short-term government or government agency securities that were called that we had invested in, in the end of the third, early fourth quarter of last year, when we had all that excess liquidity that occurred. What we did is we looked across the spectrum and saw some of the best risk/return being in very high-quality municipal securities. And so that was the exchange.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Just one more on capital. Thank you so much for giving us an updated Basel III number. I was wondering, as you looked through how to interpret the risk weighting by LTV on the resi portfolio, did you give yourselves credit for the purchase accounting marks on the Wachovia book?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, we did. We did. Again I think the important thing to think about when you -- as we look through the NPRs is that, while it did have about a 30 basis point impact, and there is a lot of give and takes that we are going to have with the regulators and the whole industry will have with the regulators on the various items, in terms of our ability to meet any sort of capital requirements on any reasonable set of time, we are going to meet them well in advance.

So we have got a lot of discussion to have with the regulators. But we are fine from a capital standpoint.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me just emphasize that. We are in the unique position of not having to do anything uneconomic or different to somehow hoard capital or to meet something. We have such strong capital, such strong cash flows and earnings here, it puts us in a position where we can grow organically, do strategic and value-adding portfolio acquisitions, or whatever.

So it really puts us in a great position. Capital simply is not an issue here.

ERIKA PENALA: Understood.

JOHN STUMPF: Nothing I worry about.

TIM SLOAN: Yes.

ERIKA PENALA: Thank you so much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Yes, hi, good morning. A couple of nitty-gritty questions for Tim. Tim, on the share count, the average diluted shares were up despite the buyback, and even though the end of period is down. Is that just timing of when the buybacks were done? Something else there?

TIM SLOAN: John, it is a function of timing. It's a good question. It is a function of the timing and also the fact that we tend to have more share issuance in the first part of the year.

If you look over last year you saw something relatively similar, in that the share count drifted down a little bit toward the end of the year. But it is nothing special other than just timing.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then on the variable source items contributing to NIM this quarter and the 7 basis points, besides loan resolutions can you just give us a feel for what other types of variable sources are affecting the NIM?

TIM SLOAN: It was mostly loan resolutions, John, and that is why we called it out. The NIM has been flat quarter over quarter, and we wanted to make sure that you all appreciated that 7 basis points was something that was relatively special.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: And John, as we have mentioned in the past and we will say it again, NIM will be under pressure as -- in this low rate environment. And while we don't manage to it, we surely talk about it.

But what is important here is we are able to grow net interest income, and that is really the driver.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Do you see more opportunity to buy loan books from other banks? What is the market like for that kind of opportunity?

TIM SLOAN: I think the market continues to provide opportunities for firms that have the liquidity and the capital to be able to take advantage of it. Whether or not we will be successful I certainly can't promise you, because we turn down more than we pursue.

But we were just very, very pleased over the past year to have been in position to make the acquisitions that we have done. To date they have all worked out well and we look forward to looking at more acquisitions in the future.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, John, like I said we kick a lot of tires, we say no to more stuff than we say yes to. But if we don't do another deal that's -- we will do other things; but we are still looking at a lot of things.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. The last thing for me, understanding that it is not a big deal, that it is only one quarter of capital build for you, but what in the Basel III NPRs drove that 30 basis point revision to your pro forma outlook, Tim?

TIM SLOAN: There were a couple of things in the numerator, John. First, in terms of how the OCI related to our pension would be handled; and then second was the MSR floor.

Then on the denominator side, it was primarily an RWA adjustment for the removal of the credit rating for AFS securities. But again it wasn't significant.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Right, right. Okay, that's helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Tim, I got a couple quick questions, want to make sure I heard you correctly. But the sequential quarter built in the loan repurchase reserves, roughly $240 million above first-quarter levels. Would you consider it more of a one-time true-up for what you are seeing from the GSEs recently?

TIM SLOAN: I wouldn't say it is a one-time true-up, Chris. I would love to be able to tell you that that is the case. It may be; it may not be, in terms of what we see in the future.

]I think we are just continuing to be -- to want to make sure that we have got that reserve absolutely accrued for appropriately. We saw the agencies continuing to adjust their requests. Again, these are not specific demands; this is in advance of demands. But it is our best expectations of what the demands are going to look like in the future.

JOHN STUMPF: But Chris, let me say this. Just because there is demands -- I mean, we are going to push back. We have a team and we look through this stuff, and this is -- and we have been successful in the past in that.

But we just wanted to give you a heads-up about what we expect in the future. But there is a whole team here that takes this very seriously.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, there is a lot of give and take in each relationship. You can see that we are good at making progress in terms of those discussions because of the fact that demands were actually down.

When we get something, we work through it. Sometimes we agree; sometimes we don't. But it is a pretty healthy conversation.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I appreciate that. The TRUPs were paid off late in the quarter. If I did my math right, that saves you maybe $115 million or so a year.

What about the subdebt? What was the yield on the subdebt, the $2.2 billion that saves you in interest expense going forward?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, Chris? To be honest with you I don't have it handy. We will get back to you on that. But it was lower than -- much lower than the TRUPs.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Got you.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I want to say 200 to 300 basis points. But we will get back to you on that.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. But again they both happened late in the quarter, so that's a bit of an offset going forward in terms of lower expense.

TIM SLOAN: Correct. I mean I think just overall the TRUPs repurchase and the fact that we did it as early as we did has been a real benefit for us and will continue to be a benefit.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Can I have one final question? The securities yields are actually up 13 basis points sequentially. Are you taking more duration risk in the current environment to get that type of yield increase sequentially?

TIM SLOAN: No, we are not. We are not taking any significant duration risk or any significant credit risk. This is still a very high-quality portfolio and the duration is relatively short.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Then how does the yield go up sequentially with the rates going down?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, fair question. Similar to where Erika was coming out. And that is it was really an exchange of some very, low-yield, short-term, very high-quality government or government agency securities in exchange for some municipals and for some MBS.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: My apologies that was asked before. I have been pretty busy this morning.

TIM SLOAN: No, no, no. No problem. No.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Thank you very much. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ken Usdin, Jefferies.

KEN USDIN, ANALYST, JEFFERIES & CO.: Thanks, good morning guys. I want to ask you a first question just on expenses. I think everyone understands the better revenue outlook for the better expense outlook for the fourth quarter. But can you at this point help us to understand how much more of an impact Project Compass will be as we look forward into next year?

There will be seasonality obviously early next year. But just from a run rate, as you expect things, broader picture, do you guys have a sense of the magnitude of incremental saves that can still come out of the run rate?

TIM SLOAN: Fair question. We have not begun our detailed planning for next year. Having said that, I think that we continued to see pretty significant changes that we can make as it relates to any sort of the run rate which would be Project Compass. We also have some environmental items like higher operating losses due to litigation accruals and the like that hopefully will come out over time.

So we think we can make some progress. That is one of the reasons why we provided the range of 55% to 59% at Investor Day. If we thought that we were at the end and we were going to be at 58%, 59% we wouldn't have provided that range to 55%.

JOHN STUMPF: And let me state we still have opportunity. Expenses are still too high around here, given the operating environment.

So we -- all hands are on deck. We have lost none of our enthusiasm or opportunity or passion to do that.

This is not a destination; this is a journey. And it will continue next, quarter, the quarter after, into next year.

But also what's important is not only Compass expenses but expenses in businesses that move up and down. How quickly we can take mortgage costs out when mortgage -- when the refi boom ends. And those are also critically important.

But we get this in spades, and that is why we have been so public about the fact that we have opportunity here.

KEN USDIN: Great. My second question just relates to two questions on the loan book. First of all, I was wondering if you could just comment on just commercial activity, your just general sense from customers out there, just given the uncertainty in the environment and outlook there.

Then the second question is, it looked like the pace of runoff was a little bigger this quarter in that part of the portfolio. Just what you generally expect from a pace of runoff going forward.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes. Let me take the last question first. The pace of runoff in the commercial portfolio was impacted in some of our commercial real estate loans which drove the PCI resolution. That was a primary driver there. I wish I could tell you that was going to happen every quarter, but I can't.

In terms of overall commercial loan demand, it is still seems -- it seems good. I wouldn't call it great. I mean I think we are in the midst of a recovery. It is a slow recovery.

But what was good from our perspective was to see a more broad-based level of loan growth in our commercial portfolio in addition to the acquisitions. We also saw, and I mentioned in my remarks, a continued increase in line usage. It is not significant; but we bottomed in terms of line usage about a year or so ago, and it has been slowly but steadily going up.

But I would call it good. And it is a very competitive market.

JOHN STUMPF: I should also mention that we actually had -- we saw some opportunities or some performance on the consumer side, which is really healthy. We are doing very well in auto. We did very well in small business. We did very well in card this quarter.

So that is very positive. Because we have -- home equity is coming down. So to show some improvement there, it was very encouraging.

KEN USDIN: Okay, great. Thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: Good morning. I wanted to ask you about the pipeline and the impact that that could have on originations. If you look at the last couple of quarters, your pipeline converted into originations at about a 1.7 ratio. So in other words, whatever you had in pipeline you originated 70% more in the next quarter.

With a $102 billion pipeline, will that equate to north of -- it puts you around $170 billion in originations in the next quarter. Is that anywhere close to where you think you could see the numbers?

TIM SLOAN: You know, Marty, I hope that is the case. But when you think about the conversion it is just as much as what is going to happen in terms of business this month and the beginning of August.

We have ramped up our team members in mortgage to be able to move the pipeline through as quickly as we can. But again -- so I hope $170 billion is the right number, but it could be a little bit different.

MARTY MOSBY: The third quarter typically is a good seasonal quarter for home purchase as well. So you at least have that coming back in, if we are seeing any strength there, which is a positive.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, that's right.

MARTY MOSBY: The other thing I was going to ask is, if I calculate it right, it looks like the gain on sale went from about 240 down to around 210 this quarter. Is it starting to stabilize? Or should there -- any more return to more normal, which would be just a little bit below 2%?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, your numbers are actually pretty close, Marty. Our number was closer to about 220, 225 or so, but in that ZIP code. And it is remaining pretty stable.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. Then when we go back, one more try on the mortgage repurchase activity, you said you had some discussions with agencies. We had a couple other companies that took special hits in the sense of reserving for future losses given better information they were getting from the agencies, which really reflects an acceleration of future losses that they expect to see.

Would you couch this $669 million number in that kind of range, or in that kind of aspect?

TIM SLOAN: You know, Marty, I wouldn't want to speculate on what is going to happen in the future. What we wanted to do is make sure that we were appropriately reserved for this quarter.

As John said, there is going to be a lot of healthy conversation with the agencies on whatever future demands they are going to provide. Again these were based on conversations in which we expected future demands as opposed to specific demands.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay. Then the last question is the 7 basis points impact from PCI on the margin, is that an incremental benefit or how would that compare to last quarter?

TIM SLOAN: That is the incremental benefit, Marty, and that is why we wanted to call it out.

MARTY MOSBY: Got you. Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR & COMPANY: Yes, how are you guys doing? Great quarter by the way, guys. Just to follow up on the mortgage banking side, you got -- I mean, I can't get this out. On the HARP stuff, and back on your Investor Day you said HARP wasn't playing as big a role as a lot of the media people were talking about. Are you seeing an increase in HARP? Or are you still in that category that you are not seeing a lot of HARP loans coming through the pipeline?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, Paul, good question. What we were referring to at the Investor Day was the media reports at the time that indicated that the HARP margins were outsize relative to the rest of the originations, which wasn't the case then and isn't the case now. The fundings have actually been pretty stable in terms of -- I think at the Investor Day we might've said 15%.

JOHN STUMPF: 16%.

TIM SLOAN: Now it is 16% now. And that is about -- it just seems pretty stable in that percentage. I mean it could go up or down a few percentage, but 16% is a pretty good number.

JOHN STUMPF: Now for others it might be higher as a percentage because they do less other things. The denominator is different. But for us it has been pretty flat.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Then I don't know, because I've been running around all day this morning with JPMorgan. But did you guys talk a little bit about -- have you seen any decline at all? Because a lot of people have been talking about the refi indexes being down. But we are hearing mixed reviews out there, that if the flow or the demand is really going down out there in the month of July.

TIM SLOAN: We haven't published any of the July information. But as of just a couple of weeks ago with the pipeline that we have, the business is good and we are optimistic about it.

JOHN STUMPF: Very optimistic.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. I think those are my questions. Thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, I understand the long-term; you had your whole Investor Day. And I understand the short-term, mortgage, you are very optimistic. It is the medium-term. If and when mortgage slows, what fills that bucket? What replaces that?

Could there be an oh-no quarter where mortgage slows and you haven't cut the expenses yet?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Mike, we could always have an oh-no quarter. This is a volatile business that we are in, for sure.

I think that when you look at the history of the Company, we have had a profitable mortgage business for decades. But within that profitability we have had a lot of cycles.

We understand that the mortgage business is a very cyclical business, particularly when you look at the refi cycles that we have had over the past few years. I would just point to the fact that, while I can't promise this is going to be the case, while we have printed 10 consecutive quarters of earnings growth we have had ups and downs in the mortgage business.

I think what that reflects is the benefit of the fact that we have got a very diversified business model. The mortgage business is important to us; but when you look at the percentage of mortgage revenues for last year and the year before, it goes down because we are growing the rest of the business quite nicely.

So I can't tell you specifically what would take the place of the decline in mortgage revenues -- which will occur. We know that is going to happen, because it is unlikely that we will continue at this pace for the medium term as you point out.

But we do believe that because we saw loan growth in many of our portfolios, we saw fee growth in many of our businesses, that we can continue to grow even in the medium term.

JOHN STUMPF: And Mike, Tim is absolutely right in that. But even within the mortgage business, think about it. We are already seeing more purchase volume activity, and the business is balanced pretty nicely between the servicing side and the originations side. So when originations tend to ebb, the servicing tends to do better.

So I mean there is a whole bunch of stuff. We always say there is lots of different horses pulling this coach; and one pulls harder when the other one doesn't pull as hard.

So that is the beauty of this balanced business model. But I will tell you one thing, Mike, we will not stretch for something. I mean it is just not in our culture to do that. So if we happen to have something that goes down one quarter, that is life.

MIKE MAYO: And what if you are not pulling as much in the coach? What about eliminating a couple horses, to stretch the analogy?

JOHN STUMPF: We are trimming manes all the time.

MIKE MAYO: But you are within range of your efficiency target. How quickly would you be able to take out the mortgage expenses if you see mortgage slowing? Is that one quarter, is it five quarters?

JOHN STUMPF: That is a very fair question. We have become I think really, really good at how to deal with -- how to make what would traditionally have been more permanent expenses variable in that business.

So we do -- we have lots of skill in that area. But it can't happen in one week, I mean. But we are always looking for improvements in how to become much more variable in expenses that used to be more fixed.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Greg Ketron, UBS.

GREG KETRON, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. Thanks for taking my questions. One on the mortgage production outlook, at least as best as you can tell at this point. When you think about the sources -- I know HARP 2.0 you had mentioned it's 15% to 16% of production; then there is also the other refi volume.

As you look at those opportunities going forward, is there a percent of eligible refinance that you feel like you have worked through and there is a percent remaining that we will see over the next couple of quarters?

TIM SLOAN: We talk about that all the time. We talk to our mortgage folks about that all the time. But that is a really, really hard number to come up with, with any specificity.

So I wouldn't want to throw out something and then you guys take our market share of that and then assume we are going to get over the next few quarters. I hope we do; but I am not confident enough on that.

GREG KETRON: Okay. Is there a sense though, with this refi opportunity between HARP 2.0 and the sensitivity around the rate changes, where there could be additional refinancing? That the cycle has at least a couple of quarters' legs left in it, and we should see production levels stay relatively strong?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I hope that is the case. And given that we start this quarter with a pretty strong pipeline, we think that will be the case for the near term.

I do think that one of the differences about this refinancing cycle, which I think is where you're going and it is right on point, is that because of some of these other programs it is going to create a little bit more of a foundation in terms of demand for a longer period of time.

GREG KETRON: Okay, great. Then on share repurchases, with the 53 million done and 11 million forward, is there any view that you can provide in terms of additional share repurchase activity for the rest of this year?

TIM SLOAN: Yes; fair question. I want to point out that we were not able to purchase shares in the first quarter of this year, just like we weren't able in the first quarter of last year, just because of the timing of the CCAR process. So when you look at our share repurchase that we did in the second quarter, I wouldn't necessarily multiply that by 2 to get what we are going to do in the third and the fourth quarter.

But we are going to continue to repurchase shares. We have got the ability to do it. We continue to believe our shares are undervalued, and we are going to continue to be in the market.

GREG KETRON: Okay. Then last question; was there any valuation adjustment that was significant in the quarter?

TIM SLOAN: No.

GREG KETRON: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thanks. I appreciate it, and just really one follow-up question on the -- Tim, your comment concerning the securities yields. You mentioned that the reason for the security yield increase was on the -- was because of a prepayment on agency securities. But it was in the non-agency securities on the mortgage-backeds that we saw the linked-quarter increase in the yield. And I was wondering what might be going on there.

TIM SLOAN: Well, it is a function of -- you are talking about the line item that says securities of US states and political subdivisions? Is that the one?

FRED CANNON: No, under mortgage-backed securities you have got the line item Federal Agencies; and then you have got Residential and Commercial, which I am assuming is non-agency MBS. That is the line item where you saw the yield increase.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I would just describe that as just more of a mix in terms of individual securities. There is nothing special that is going on there.

FRED CANNON: But over time that 6.97% yield, we should expect that to decline if you are taking less risk. Is that fair?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, I think, Fred, as we've talked about I think where we have the biggest impact in terms of yields is in our AFS book. It is under pressure, and that is one of the drivers of our concern about the NIM.

FRED CANNON: Right. It was just that I think we had a linked-quarter increase of 17 basis points there. But so that is just more of a one-quarter blip we should think of rather than a trend?

TIM SLOAN: I wish I could tell you that is going to continue, but I don't think that is going to be the case.

FRED CANNON: One other question on the mortgage business. In the DOJ announcement yesterday, it said that you would discontinue funding mortgages at originated price and sold by independent mortgage brokers through your wholesale channel. I was wondering how much of the wholesale channel that is, that you are shutting that down, and any reasons behind that.

TIM SLOAN: Well, in terms of the percentage it was about 5% of our originations.

FRED CANNON: And you are shutting down that entire 5%?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct. We are going to take applications through today; and then there is a time period by which we need to get that information and they need to close by.

But that is correct. We are exiting that portion of the business.

FRED CANNON: Okay, great. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Thanks a lot. Following up actually on the mortgage business, you are shutting the wholesale channel, what you said about 5%. At the Investor Day you talked a little bit about having picked up a little market share in correspondent, but wondering whether you were going to keep it there.

Can you talk a little bit about what your thoughts are, if they have changed any? And also whether the industry as a whole has been quick or slow to add capacity, and whether you think that is good for pricing going forward.

TIM SLOAN: I think in terms of our view on the correspondent business it really hasn't changed. We think it is a good business. As we mentioned on Investor Day, I think Mike Heid did a really good job of walking through the opportunities that we have had over the past year in particular, in terms of adding correspondence.

And we have been very careful to make sure that we add the right correspondence. We have long, strong relationships with a number of correspondents; and again we like the business.

In terms of adding staff to be able to process the volume we have had, I mean, these have been unprecedented times in terms of how quickly volume has changed. We have been adding folks to be able to underwrite and process these as quickly as we can, and we will continue to do that.

But at the same time when volume start to decline, we need to be ready to reduce, too. But there is nothing different going on here. You just need to make sure that you have got sustained volume before you add a lot of people.

JOHN STUMPF: Just maybe, just so we are all on the same wavelength here. The wholesale that we are shutting down is different from correspondent. Correspondent is where -- you know that today. Where they close on -- this is where the loan is priced and originated but we close it; and that is the part the wholesale piece that we couldn't be sure (multiple speakers)

MOSHE ORENBUCH: It's a risk management decision.

TIM SLOAN: That's correct.

JOHN STUMPF: Exactly. So it's completely different things.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay, but it just feels like the industry has been a little slower to add costs and capacity this cycle. Would you agree with that?

TIM SLOAN: No, I wouldn't say that at all. I mean I think it's -- yes.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI CAPITAL: Good morning, guys. Just two quick questions just to help us with the forecasting outlook a little bit. When I am thinking about operating costs and I am looking at that $524 million of operating losses, I understand why it was high in each of the last two quarters. But is there any particular reason that that should stay at this level? Or is it reasonable to expect that number to come down fairly significantly in subsequent quarters?

TIM SLOAN: I think one way to think about, Ed, is if you look back on how that has gone up and down over the last year, for example. You have seen quarters where it has been $200 million, $300 million lower.

We are hoping that those operating losses will go down as we continue to put any sort of particularly legal, open legal issue behind us. So I hope that is the case.

ED NAJARIAN: But the vast, vast majority of that number is litigation accrual, correct?

TIM SLOAN: A good portion of it is. But we are generally not specific in terms of exactly how much of it is related to litigation accruals.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. Then secondarily when I am thinking about net interest margin, and you talked about the extra 7 basis points primarily from the extra PCI loan resolution income, it seems like you are alluding to the idea that you could get additional margin pressure off of a 3.84% starting point, as opposed to a 3.91% starting point.

First question, I guess is -- is that the right way to think about it? And second question is -- as you look at the PCI portfolio, should we think it is reasonably likely to expect future quarters where we see some meaningful resolution income?

TIM SLOAN: Well, in answer to your last question we are hopeful that we get meaningful resolution income every quarter. But -- and there is still more to get, right? We are not done with the PCI loan portfolio.

Having said that, you hit the nail on the head. That is why we called out the 7 basis points. Without that we would have been in the mid-3.80%s. And we know where yields are today on securities in particular.

But again I think you got to put it in the context of the fact that the majority of our earning assets -- 70%, 75%-plus -- are loans, and the yields are within a reasonable range. Where we are having the biggest -- we have the biggest impact is on our securities portfolio.

But you are right. I think thinking about this in kind of a mid-3.80% number and having some downside from there is a fair way to look at it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, great. Very helpful. Thank you.

OPERATOR: At this time there are no further questions.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay. Well, thank you very much for joining us for our second-quarter call. We will talk to you 90 days from now. Thank you very much. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this does conclude today's conference. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120727e87d0015p
  


 HD
 Q1  2012 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,805 words
   PD
13 April 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Regina, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and our CFO Tim Sloan will review first-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release, and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining us. Our outstanding results for the first quarter demonstrate the strength of our franchise and the benefit of our diversified business model. Our ability to meet our customers' financial needs throughout our geographic footprint and broadly diversified businesses is clearly reflected in our results.

Let me quickly review some of the highlights of the first quarter. We grew revenue to $21.6 billion, up 6% from a year ago. We generated net income after tax up 13% and EPS up 12% from a year ago. Pre-tax pre-provision profits increased 14% from a year ago.

We had positive operating leverage, and our expense efficiency ratio improved by 250 basis points from a year ago. We grew our retail banking cross-sell ratio to a record 5.98 products per household.

Credit quality continued to improve, with our charge-off ratio declining to 1.25%, the lowest level since 2007. Our profitability ratios reflect these strong results, with a return on assets growing to 1.31%, up 8 basis points from a year ago, the highest it's been in four years. Our return on equity increased to 12.14%, up 16 basis points from just a year ago.

We continue to grow capital, with our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III increasing to 7.81%. We are extremely pleased that during the first quarter we were able to reward our shareholders by increasing our dividend for the second consecutive year with an 83% increase to $0.22 per share per quarter.

Wells Fargo's performance has benefited from our diversified business model and the improvements in the economy. We remain focused on our commitment to do all we can to help customers and the overall economy.

We are helping homeowners stay in their homes, with over 740,000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications since the beginning of 2009. We have also helped nearly 5.6 million customers secure new low-rate loans for home purchases or refinancing since the beginning of 2009.

In the first quarter we successfully completed integrating the largest and most complex bank merger in our nation's history. It took us three years, but we did it the right way, on time, and under budget.

We believe our strong results this quarter are just the beginning of our ability to capitalize on all of the tremendous growth opportunities ahead of us as we move forward as one Wells Fargo serving our 70 million customers coast-to-coast. Now Tim, our CFO, will provide more details on our financial results.

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement, starting on page 2, and then John and I will take your questions.

As John highlighted, we achieved very strong first-quarter results with record earnings of $4.2 billion, up 3% from the fourth quarter and up 13% from a year ago.

Earnings per share were a record $0.75, up 3% from last quarter and 12% from a year ago. This is our ninth consecutive quarter of EPS growth. That is real consistency.

Our ability to grow our bottom line consistently during a time when the industry has faced many challenges reflects the underlying strength and the benefit of our diversified business model. This quarter was no different. As slide 3 shows, we have a diversified loan portfolio, balanced spread and fee income, and our sources of non-interest income are well diversified.

Let me start by highlighting some of the key drivers of our results this quarter, and I will add more detail later in my remarks. While total loans declined this quarter, our core loan portfolio, which excludes the planned runoff from the liquidating portfolio, was up $1 billion dollars from the fourth quarter. Our securities portfolio grew $7.7 billion, and we continue to deploy cash in longer-term investments and benefit from continued strong deposit growth, with deposit balances up $10.2 billion.

Let's turn to the income statement. Revenue grew by $1 billion or 5% from the fourth quarter, on strong mortgage results and fee growth throughout our diversified businesses, while net interest income was stable. As expected our expenses remained elevated in this quarter, but we generated positive operating leverage. We expect second-quarter expenses to decline by $500 million to $700 million and that our quarterly expenses will continue to decline over the remainder of the year.

Now let me cover our results in more detail. As shown on page 6, period-end loans were down $3.1 billion from the fourth quarter, as we continue to reduce the size of our liquidating portfolio. Excluding the runoff of $4.1 billion of liquidating loans, our core loan portfolio grew by $1 billion.

Commercial loans grew $299 million as growth in C&I was partially offset by lower Commercial Real Estate and foreign loans. Loan growth benefited from $858 million of loans acquired from Burdale Capital Finance during the quarter.

As we head into the second quarter we have a nice tailwind for increasing loans with the announced acquisition of BNP Paribas's North American energy lending business, which includes approximately $3.9 billion of loans outstanding and is expected to close later this month.

Consumer loans declined $3.4 billion from the fourth quarter, as growth in our auto and our private student lending portfolios was offset by lower junior lien mortgages and seasonally lower credit card balances. Average loan balances were flat linked-quarter, but we had growth in many portfolios. We believe we are well positioned to grow loans during the rest of the year.

We had strong deposit growth with average core deposits up $5.6 billion from the fourth quarter and up $73.7 billion, or 9% from a year ago. Core deposits were 113% of average loans.

Average core checking and savings deposits were up 12% from a year ago and were 93% of core deposits. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 2.5% from a year ago. We have successfully grown deposits while reducing our deposit cost for six consecutive quarters. Deposit costs in the first quarter were 20 basis points, down 2 basis points from the fourth quarter and down 10 basis points from a year ago.

Tax-equivalent net interest income was stable from the fourth quarter, with average earning assets essentially unchanged; and the NIM was up 2 basis points. That said, we expect continued pressure on our NIM as a result of the current interest rate environment.

The benefit of disciplined deposit pricing, with interest-bearing deposit costs down 3 basis points in the quarter, and the redeployment of short-term investments into longer-term securities, largely offset the expected runoff of higher-yielding loans and investments during the quarter.

Noninterest income increased $1 billion from the fourth quarter, up 11%. This growth was broad-based and reflected very strong mortgage results. Mortgage banking revenue increased $506 million, up 21% from the fourth quarter, driven by strong originations and higher margins.

Mortgage originations were $129 billion in the first quarter, up 8% from the fourth quarter. Only 15% of our origination volume this quarter was from HARP.

The unclosed mortgage pipeline was solid at $79 billion at quarter-end. Mortgage results included a $343 million reduction in the value of MSRs to incorporate a higher discount rate.

Market-sensitive revenues were up $458 million from the fourth quarter and included $364 million in equity gains. These equity gains were up $303 million from last quarter, but were in line with our quarterly average last year of $370 million.

Trading gains increased $210 million from the last quarter, reflecting the benefit from $109 million of higher deferred compensation plan investment results, which is offset in expense, and stronger core customer accommodation trading. Trust and investment fees increased $181 million, up 7% from the fourth quarter, from higher retail brokerage transaction activity and asset-based fees.

Turning to expenses, recall that we indicated last quarter that costs will remain elevated in the first quarter. Non-interest expense increased $485 million from the fourth quarter, driven primarily by two factors -- higher personnel expenses and operating losses.

Now let me walk you through the first-quarter expenses in more detail on page 11. Employee compensation expense increased for three primary reasons.

First, we had $476 million of seasonally higher employee benefit expenses from higher payroll taxes and 401(k) matching. Second, we had $120 million of higher deferred compensation expenses, which were offset in revenue. And finally, we had $166 million of higher commission and incentive compensation expenses driven by revenue growth in mortgage, retail brokerage, and insurance. In addition, we had $314 million of higher operating losses primarily due to additional litigation accruals for various legal matters.

Offsetting these increases was $262 million of lower merger integration and Compass severance expenses, and $329 million in lower expenses from seasonally higher fourth-quarter levels in equipment and foreclosed asset expense, and other benefits including Compass cost saves.

As shown on page 12, we expect second-quarter expenses to decline by $500 million to $700, million driven by the elimination of merger integration expenses and lower personnel expense. And we expect expenses to continue to decline over the remainder of the year.

As you will recall, when we first provided you detail on our expense initiative in the second quarter of last year, we stated that we expected our fourth-quarter 2012 expenses to be within the range of $10.75 billion to $11.25 billion with a target of $11 billion. This target assumed a certain level of revenue growth, which we now expect to be stronger than we originally assumed -- obviously, a very good thing. Because of expected higher revenue we are now targeting fourth-quarter 2012 expenses to be $11.25 billion.

We have continued to make progress on reducing expenses through our Compass expense initiative. For example, non-customer-facing team members and contractors in high-cost geographies are down 11% from the beginning of 2011, and we have reduced technology expense by 3% despite meaningful growth in IT-related volumes.

Turning briefly to our segment results, starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $2.3 billion in the first quarter, benefiting from strong mortgage results. Retail Banking sales continued to generate strong growth, with core product sales up 9% from a year ago. Retail Banking cross-sell grew to 5.98 products per household, up from 5.76 a year ago.

Cross-sell growth occurred throughout the franchise. But with the East's cross-sell 86 basis points lower than the West, we have plenty of opportunity to earn more business from our customers in the East.

Credit card penetration in our Retail Banking households continued to increase to 30%, up from 27% a year ago. We generated record consumer auto originations in the first quarter of $6 billion, up 25% from fourth quarter and 10% from a year ago.

Wholesale Banking earned $1.9 billion in the first quarter, up $232 million or 14% from the fourth quarter. This strong bottom-line growth reflects record revenue of $6 billion, up 11% from the fourth quarter, which was broad-based across our diversified commercial businesses.

Wholesale Banking also generated record pre-tax pre-provision profit and positive operating leverage, with the expense efficiency ratio improving to 50.6% in the first quarter compared with 54.2% in the fourth quarter. Loan growth was broad-based, reflecting new and existing customer growth and our ability to capitalize on acquisition opportunities in this environment.

For example, we have grown our Commercial Banking portfolio for 20 consecutive months from new originations and increased line utilization from our middle-market customers. During the past year, we have completed $4.8 billion of loan portfolio acquisitions; and this quarter we announced the acquisition of $3.9 billion in loans outstanding from BNP Paribas, which we expect to close later this month.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $296 million. Excluding the fourth quarter's gain on the sale of H.D. Vest of $153 million, earnings would have increased 34% from last quarter.

Revenue increased 1% from the fourth quarter. Again, excluding the fourth-quarter H.D. Vest gain, revenue grew 6% from last quarter. This growth was driven by higher asset-based fees, strong brokerage transaction revenue, and securities gains in the brokerage business.

Managed account assets were up $26 billion (sic - see slide 16) or 10% from the fourth quarter driven by strong net flows and market performance. First-quarter net flows reflect recovery to levels last seen in the second quarter of 2011. Our continued focus on helping customers succeed financially drove cross-sell to 10.16, up from 9.85 a year ago.

Credit quality continued to improve this quarter as shown on page 16. Net charge-offs were down $245 million from the fourth quarter and were 1.25% of average loans, down 48 basis points from a year ago and the lowest charge-off rate since 2007. Provision expense was $2 billion, including a $400 million reserve release in the first quarter. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.

Non-accrual loans increased $722 million from the fourth quarter. This entire increase was the result of the reclassification of $1.7 billion of performing junior lien loans and lines to non-accrual status in accordance with interagency guidance issued to the industry this quarter, related to junior liens behind a delinquent senior lien loan. Only 12% of these reclassified junior liens were 30 days or more past due.

This policy change had an immaterial impact on our earnings since the loans were already considered in our loan-loss allowance and the related interest income impact was minimal. Absent this policy change, non-accrual loans would have been down $948 million from the fourth quarter with declines in all loan categories. This continues the trend of improvement that started in the fourth quarter of 2010.

Loans 90 days or more past due were down $412 million or 20% from the fourth quarter, with declines in both commercial and consumer portfolios. Early-stage consumer loan delinquency balances and rates also improved from the fourth quarter, driven by seasonality, but are also significantly better than a year ago as portfolio performance continued to improve.

We serviced $1.8 trillion of residential mortgages. We like the cross-sell opportunities this provides, and it also positions us well to benefit from refinance waves like we are experiencing now, since existing customers usually give us the first chance when they refinance.

On page 18 we highlight why we believe our servicing portfolio is the best in the industry. 71% of our servicing portfolio is serviced for the agency; only 5% are private securitizations, and 79% of those were prime at origination and over half were originated prior to 2006.

Most of the loans we securitize were jumbo loans. We do not have private-label option ARM securities, nor do we have a significant amount of home equity securitizations.

Reflecting the quality of our servicing portfolio, our delinquency and foreclosure rate was nearly 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recent publicly available data. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 6.89% in the first quarter, down from 7.22% a year ago and from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009.

The repurchase reserve increased by $118 million in the first quarter. Total repurchase demands were down $154 million from the fourth quarter, down approximately 25% from a year ago and down 57% from the peak in the second quarter of 2010.

As shown on page 20, our capital position continued to improve, with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 9.95% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals growing to 7.81%, up 31 basis points from the fourth quarter. We have been able to grow our capital ratios while rewarding our shareholders by increasing our first-quarter dividend by 83%.

We purchased 7.6 million shares in the first quarter, primarily through a forward repurchase transaction entered into during the fourth quarter. We called $875 million of 6.38% trust preferred securities in the first quarter, which we redeemed today.

In summary, our diversified business model focused on basic banking generated another quarter of outstanding results, with record earnings, robust revenue, and pretax pre-provision growth, positive operating leverage, and continued improvement in credit quality. These results drove our ROA to 1.31% and increased our ROE to 12.14%, and our capital ratios continue to grow.

We increased our dividend rate to $0.22 per share, which we paid to our shareholders in the first quarter. We are well positioned to continue to grow, ending the quarter with a strong mortgage pipeline, and we are focused on capitalizing on acquisition opportunities, increasing our cross-sell, growing our loans and deposits, and reducing our expenses.

We look forward to sharing more details on our growth opportunities at our Investor Day next month. I will now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Good morning, everyone. I wondered, Tim, could you give us a sense of the yield you are getting on some of these loan portfolio purchases you have made to date and how additive they are to the margin? Also, are you still seeing a good pipeline of opportunities? Just how competitive is the market now for these acquisitions?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, good question. When you look at the yields that we received our commercial real estate loans that we bought last year in a number of transactions, they were more or less consistent with the rest of the portfolio. These were generally high-quality loans.

As you recall, a good portion of those were customers that we already knew. So I would say that it was consistent with those yields.

Then in terms of the Burdale Capital Finance portfolio, again it was pretty consistent, high-quality stuff with the Capital Finance portfolio.

In terms of how competitive the market is, I wouldn't say that it has really changed a whole lot. In any situation that we are seeing that we are interested in, there is at least a handful of competitors. And everybody wants to grow, so you've got to pay an appropriate price.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Then just one other is you mentioned HARP accounted for around 15% of its origination volume in first quarter. Do you see that rising much and having a greater impact on your business? And beyond that, just in general, what are your thoughts on the current strength of the housing market?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, did you want to --?

Yes, I want to tell you on the housing side, we are seeing improvement and we have been seeing that for some time. But we are seeing it more -- and it depends on the region of the country, strength, of course, and the different price points.

But when you have the dynamics of higher rental rates and lower home values at great financing rates, there is a point in time where the market is going to clear and you are going to see improvement. I think we are getting very close to that tipping point, and we have seen it in some of the markets.

In some markets like Northern California, Texas, the District of Columbia, in that area, stronger. Other areas would be a bit weaker, but we are seeing improvement there.

With respect to HARP, you're right; 15% of our volume was HARP. But we had a pretty good pipeline there. HARP, too, is an opportunity for very high loan-to-value -- or, quote unquote, underwater from an equity perspective -- current borrowers to refinance, and we are going to see more volume in that.

TIM SLOAN: And, John, maybe let me just add on to that, and that is that -- Joe, most of the volume that we saw from HARP was from HARP 1 and, again, about 15% of the total fundings in the first quarter. So we are just beginning to see the results of HARP 2 start to kick in. How long that continues we don't know, but right now the mortgage business is very good for us.

JOE MORFORD: That's great. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Was wondering about if you could give us a little color on your approach to share buybacks. Are you purely price-sensitive, or does it depend on what other uses of capital you have? Could you give us some color on how you think about the buybacks?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. Thank you, John. You know, we have been very consistent with our view of rewarding shareholders. First of all, those of you who know us well know that we are very shareholder friendly and centric.

There is a number of dynamics that are going on right now. We are still buying back TruPS. We have increased our dividend by 83%. We are going to -- we have approval to do more repurchase this year than last year.

We are very happy we went through the CCAR with no objections to our plan. And we want to have enough capital around so we can grow this Company, and we believe we are a growth company. So we will buy back when it is opportunistic for us to do that. But again, we have all of the other issues in play; and I think balance, consistency, and a friendly view around rewarding our stockholders -- who again we have great emphasis on that -- will really dictate what we do.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you, John. A question for Tim on expenses. Tim, any color on the pace of expense decline throughout the year from the second quarter, third and fourth? Does it pick up steam or do you envision that spread evenly throughout the quarters as we go towards that fourth-quarter goal?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, John, good question. Again, nothing has really fundamentally changed as we think about expenses from the prior quarter. We are committed to reducing our expenses and improving operating efficiency.

Again, we feel good about the $500 million to $700 million; but in terms of specifics as it relates to third and fourth quarter, obviously to get down to the $11.25 billion target that we set, it is going to have to be spread pretty evenly. But again we feel confident in our ability to do it and are looking forward to it.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, John, I would like to add one thing to that. We are absolutely committed. But if we get to the fourth quarter and if for whatever reason there is all kinds of revenue available in a certain business or a number of businesses, we are not going to be slavish to any one number.

We are going to do the one thing right thing for the stockholder, and we are going to make sure that we continue to produce the kind of results you would want us to do. But we are committed to that number. We have plans in place. We know we are going to get it, but we are not going to be slavish to it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Understood. Okay, thank you. Then, Tim, is there any Compass savings that go beyond the fourth quarter? Are there savings that you'd be working on for the year 2013 out of Compass (multiple speakers)?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, sure. Absolutely. I think that is a really important point. It is not as if we put together an expense focus, we're going to get to the fourth quarter and just stop being focused on improving operating efficiencies. I think that post the merger integration, it really gives us an opportunity to focus on operating leverage and improved efficiencies.

And we will continue to do that into '14, '15, and '16. We're not going to stop.

JOHN STUMPF: Absolutely. Because the key here is if we're more efficient on things that customers don't want to pay for, we can add salespeople, add more value to things that customers want to have. So we can compete for revenues and grow our franchise and do all the things that add value.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Then just a question on Basel III for Tim, I guess. Tim, your pro forma ratio of risk-weighted assets to total assets under Basel III is high. It seems like almost 100%.

Where is the biggest inflation of your risk-weighted assets coming from under Basel III? Is it the sub-investment-grade securities that get hit pretty hard? And is there an opportunity to mitigate that over time?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I don't know if I would describe it as an inflation of our numbers. We go through what we think is an appropriate review of all of our assets and try to compare them to what we think the Basel III rules are going to be.

Others -- it may be where you are going, that others have different ratios. I don't know how anybody else is doing it. I know how we are doing it, and I think we're doing it in an appropriate way.

Having said that, obviously, because it is an important ratio we are going to look at our risk-weighted assets and make sure that we are getting the good return on all of our risk-weighted assets as we roll into Basel III. But I think the other important point is that, regardless of what the risk-weighted asset level is, capital is not an issue for us. Right?

We are at 7.81%. The minimum requirement for us we know is 7%. Maybe there is going to be a SIF buffer, maybe not. So we are not concerned about -- we are not overly concerned about that ratio, but we spend a lot of time making sure that it is calculated correctly.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Does the treatment of MSR under Basel III affect at all how you decide or not decide to grow the business? Or will decisions to grow mortgage servicing or not be independent of capital treatment? I just want to get that; if that's a factor in how you look at the MSR and the business?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, John, first of all, we love the mortgage business. We love it because our customers love it. Two-thirds of our customers are in the mortgage business. And I don't know how you can be in the consumer banking business if you are not in the mortgage business. Along with checking accounts and mortgages, that drives a lot of the household acquisition.

And once a customer does a mortgage with us, great things happen. They stay longer; they buy more products. So that's great.

And in our mortgage business, specifically around the MSR, as you know it is a balanced business. Origination on one side and servicing on the other side, and they move in opposite directions with what happens to interest rates.

Yes, there is an element of the MSR that we think is not -- we don't agree with the treatment under Basel because we think it is as good an asset as you can have. But that being said, if rates do rise and the mortgage servicing asset goes up in value and less of it gets counted for capital or there is a bigger exclusion, other great things happen in the Company. There's offsets and there's balances.

We are not going to let one ratio or one issue like that drive us away from the business that we think is a good thing for customers, for our stockholders, for everyone involved here. It is not that we are oblivious to it, and we are looking for other ways to mitigate it, and we spent a lot of time on that.

But it is just not a deal-stopper around here. We love the business.

JOHN MCDONALD: Got it. Okay. That's helpful. Thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hey, good morning. You mentioned that 15% of your total fundings were HARP. Could you just give us a sense of the application volumes that have been HARP-related?

Then I just had a follow-up question on the ultimate approval of HARP relative to other apps that you have been seeing.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, the application volumes again were about 15%. HARP 2 was kind of rolled out in the middle of the quarter, and so those applications are up a bit; but I wouldn't describe -- it wasn't a significant portion of the first-quarter volume. Our expectation is they are probably going to increase.

But again, we think it's a good program. We think it will be helpful, but it is in its early stages. But obviously given the servicing book that we have, we are going to be a large part of that program.

JOHN STUMPF: And, Betsy, one thing that is a little different about that, you actually have to -- we spend a little more time marketing. You have to actually go and talk with people and help them understand how they qualify and how they fit into the program.

And we are doing that. We have feet on the street. We have people available. We have a big retail distribution.

And we think it is -- first of all, we think it is a good thing. It is great to see people who have made their payments every month, even though they are under water or hugely under water. And now to be able to help them put a few hundred dollars extra in their pocket every month, that is terrific.

BETSY GRASECK: So a little bit more expensive to get the refi in, obviously. So I guess the question is, what has the approval rate been? What do you think the approval rate is likely to be, relative to other refis? Non-HARP, just refi.

TIM SLOAN: Betsy, that is a fair question, but I think we are too new to rate into the HARP 2 program. I think over the next few months we will have a better appreciation for that, but I wouldn't want to guess on that one.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then just my other question had to do with loan growth. I know that that is a priority for you. Given the push/pull in the portfolio where you've got some of the portfolio obviously is still in run-off, do you feel that you can drive net loan growth over the next year or so? Or you have to wait for that run-off portfolio to really shrink a little bit more dramatically before you can anticipate that?

TIM SLOAN: No, we think we can continue to drive the growth. You saw in the third and the fourth quarter of last year that we saw point-to-point growth in both quarters. This quarter we were down a bit, but we feel good about our ability to grow loans organically.

As well and in addition, as we mentioned, we have been active from an acquisition standpoint. So any quarter might be a little bit up, a little bit down; but over time we feel confident about our ability to grow the loan portfolio. And we don't think we are going to need to wait until the liquidating portfolio just declines to a small number.

JOHN STUMPF: Betsy, the other thing is in the first quarter there is some seasonality. So we typically see card balances coming down in the first quarter, and then you see that change over the rest of the year. So we believe we can grow organically here. And as Tim mentioned, it will be lumpy, but we have lots of opportunity.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. Then I guess just the last question on this topic is competition. So clearly there is competition with other banks. There's also competition with the capital markets, right, because interest rates are so low. So just wondering how do you deal with that, in particular in the commercial real estate and the C&I space where your borrowers might be able to access longer-term funds [cheaper] than they have historically? Would they choose to be doing that as opposed to drawing down C&I lines or doing a (technical difficulty)?

TIM SLOAN: Well, they might. No, it's a fair question. I think depending upon what is going on in the capital markets, you can see an ebb and flow back-and-forth. I think from our perspective -- look, even though we want to grow loans, the most important thing is to do the right thing for the customer.

And because of the fact that we have got a broader base of product and services today, including an Investment Banking capability, unlike maybe where we were a few years ago, we can help them do that. So we sit down with our customers and give them our best recommendations. If it is a commercial real estate customer, whether or not we can do it on balance sheet or whether we can do it in the CMBS market, so on and so forth.

So there is no question there is always going to be competition from the capital markets. It was a little bit less in the third quarter of last year, a little bit more in the fourth quarter, probably a little bit more steady-state this quarter. But you are going to see that ebb and flow.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi. I guess on the $1.7 billion re-class of home equities, I totally realize you guys have already reserved for it. But just in thinking about what the loss content on those loans might be, I guess Chase put out there a 55% cume loss rate on these kind of high-risk seconds. Is that a reasonable guess for the type of reserves you would already have against that bucket?

TIM SLOAN: Our experience hasn't been 55%. I think that our view is that we needed to be consistent with this interagency guidance. We had taken into consideration the fact that these were junior lien loans behind sub-performing firsts for an extended period of time. This is the first time that we took that into our consideration in our loan-loss reserve.

So we think that we are adequately reserved. But we haven't seen a disproportionate incremental loss rate on this portfolio relative to others. But we take into consideration the loan-loss reserve and we have for a while.

JOHN STUMPF: The biggest driver on losses here is jobs. If people have income and if they have work, that drives it more than anything else. But also there is no question that once they don't have a job, the severity is almost complete.

So in other words, you lose most of it. But we are not running at those kind of numbers.

BRIAN FORAN: Then I know you've touched on a lot of the different aspects of HARP, but just one follow-up would be on -- how does it affect the gain on sale outlook for the mortgage business over the remainder of the year?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think it's going to be just a function of volume. I think we -- if the HARP 2 is successful, it will continue to increase volume. The margins that we've had have been good; but I think generally they had been a little bit overstated in the market in terms of media reports and the like.

Again, HARP 2 loans are good. The program seems to be catching on. It's in its early stage. And the way that we price those loans is they're similar to any other refinance.

BRIAN FORAN: If I could sneak in one last one, I guess going back to John's question on the risk-weighted asset inflation. I agree with everything you said, but maybe the thing that is not obvious based on your business mix is the $346 billion higher risk-weighted assets under Basel III versus Basel I as of March 31.

How much it those, that risk-weighted asset difference between Basel III and Basel I, is something that would be permanent versus how much of it is from things that can be mitigated or reduced over time? Like sub-prime MBS that might be on the books or things like that.

TIM SLOAN: Well, let's step back for a minute. I guess I am disagreeing a little bit with the premise that somehow there is inflation in how we are calculating our risk-weighted assets under Basel III. The rules for Basel I and Basel III are just different.

You've got to take into consideration things like operating risk. You've got to take into consideration counterparty risk. And everybody is doing that in the industry. We are doing that.

So again, we feel comfortable with our calculation. We are not going to do anything inappropriate in terms of doing that calculation.

Having said that, we are going to make sure that it's appropriate; but again we are not overly concerned about our risk-weighted asset level just because of the fact that we got adequate capital in the Company.

BRIAN FORAN: Okay. Understood.

OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BOFA MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning. Could you give us a sense of how you are treating any associated seconds if you are refinancing a first under the HARP program? Particularly if there is an underwater situation.

TIM SLOAN: Well, we normally look at the exposure together or in tandem. But in terms of any additional specifics, we can get back to you. We will talk to our mortgage folks and follow up. But I don't think there is anything special going on.

ERIKA PENALA: I guess I am just wondering. I understand that the $1.7 billion increase in the home equity problem loans was part of a reclassification. But is the improvement generally in home equity problem loans for the industry going to be stagnant, as perhaps some of the underwater home equity loans are charged off, as the firsts are refinanced under HARP? Am I thinking about this the wrong way, or --?

JOHN STUMPF: No, I think you're thinking -- here is how we think of it. Every time, anything we can do to help a customer reduce their first mortgage obligations, to a refinancing to lower rates or modifications of the first, obviously it helps the second. Because it's about the total expense and the debt to coverage around that.

So as part of how we normally work with customers, we look at -- with respect to their debt, and we work through the refinancing. So the reclassification has (technical difficulty) familiar with many of the borrowers, and we have relationships with them right now. We are in a number of the deals. So I would say it is consistent.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay. Thank you for your time.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. So a couple of questions. First one is a follow-up to John McDonald's question on the operating costs. I guess I am just trying to think about the trajectory of the decline in how you are describing it.

I get the idea of getting to the high end of the range by 4Q on higher revenue. But in the fourth quarter you were $12.5 billion on cost. You said we expect them to remain elevated in the first quarter but then decline significantly starting in the second quarter.

Now, we're up to $13 billion and you're looking for a $500 million to $700 million decline in the second quarter. That takes us down to $12.3 billion to $12.5 billion on your guidance.

I guess I am wondering, why is that second-quarter number not materially below the fourth-quarter number? Especially given that it won't include a Wachovia integration cost, whereas the fourth quarter included a fairly large one. Do you expect more litigation? Or what is it that I am missing on 2Q versus 4Q?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Ed, I think that based on what we see in the second quarter, we are comfortable in providing the guidance that our expenses are going to be down between $500 million and $700 million. Could they be a little bit more than that? They could. Right?

But we are comfortable with that number right now. And again that number is based upon an expectation of revenues. We feel comfortable -- as we mentioned we enter this quarter with some nice tailwinds in terms of the mortgage pipeline as well as some acquisitions that we have mentioned.

So could the number be a little bit bigger? It could; but we are comfortable with that range.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. But given that you don't -- if we take out Wachovia integration expense from the fourth quarter, it would actually be up somewhat from the fourth quarter ex-integration costs. Is that outlook because of higher incentive comp? Or what is it that would be driving that core number up a little bit versus 4Q, as opposed to down ex the Wachovia integration in 4Q?

TIM SLOAN: Well again, Ed, you're jumping --

ED NAJARIAN: I'm just trying to pinpoint where your thoughts are on how that is trending.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, you are jumping to the conclusion that it will be up. We are saying that we feel comfortable with the $500 million to $700 million guidance. There is always going to be some puts and takes in our expenses as we move through the quarter.

But again, we believe that we are going into this quarter with nice revenue, right? As we have demonstrated this quarter -- think about it. Our revenue was up $1 billion from the fourth quarter.

Do you have a little bit more expense related to that? Of course you do. Our revenue was up $1.3 billion from the first quarter last year. Were there a little bit higher expenses? Of course there were.

So we're feeling good about this quarter, and we feel good about the $500 million to $700 million. Could it be a little bit higher in terms of the reduction? Sure, it could.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, all right. Thanks. Then just one more. When I look at the net interest margin and it expanding by 2 basis points, what seems to have been the surprise factor was the overall yield on your commercial loan portfolio going up by 6 basis points from 4.10 to 4.16 in the fourth quarter to the first quarter.

TIM SLOAN: That's right.

ED NAJARIAN: Is there anything in there that is abnormal? Or is there any thoughts about what caused the yield on the commercial loan portfolio to go up a little bit linked-quarter versus down a little bit?

TIM SLOAN: Now, I wouldn't say there is anything abnormal in that. I think we are starting to see the yield to settle down just a bit. Every quarter we have some level of volatility in terms of special items that are in the numbers. You saw some of that last year, too. But there is nothing abnormal in there.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, and that is actually influenced a little bit by some of the workouts that we do on the commercial side, so that will bump around a little bit. But I think it's important as long as we are talking about the NIM to mention two things; and you know both of these, Ed.

First of all, we don't manage the Company around the NIM. And secondly, I still think it's going to be under pressure going forward.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. I didn't get a chance to look real closely at how the accretable yield came in. But were there some commercial loan sale gains that impacted -- on marked commercial loans that impacted that yield at all in the first quarter? Or not really?

JOHN STUMPF: It wasn't much. It wasn't much. But there is always a little bit here and there.

TIM SLOAN: That wasn't a driver in terms of the NIM. In fact, the accretion was actually down a little bit, from $552 million to $514 million in the first quarter.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. All right. Thank you very much, guys.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. I know you're probably sick of talking about HARP, but as of April 1 -- I mean, have you guys disclosed how much of HARP-eligible loans are within your servicing portfolio?

JOHN STUMPF: No.

PAUL MILLER: Secondly, as of April 1, I believe that you can start to refi other people's servicing portfolios under HARP. I was just wondering, you did -- I think the jury is out if that's a smart move or not. Have you made any decision on that yet?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Paul, how we think about that -- first of all, since a lot of HARP loans you get through a marketing, you need to know where people are. It is easier to do your own portfolio than someone else's.

That being said, we want to take on all comers. And this is where our cross-sell and the Community Bank gets very involved as they talk with customers and frankly other parts of the Company where we are able -- if someone has a mortgage that is not with us, that we can do. But I would say we will know more about that as time goes on. But I would bet the biggest part of the HARP 2s that we will do will be for our own portfolio.

PAUL MILLER: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: Just in terms of knowing the information.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, and then going back -- because I didn't quite understand the answer. I didn't get it correct, I think. On the HELOC portfolio, of which I believe it was like close to $1.6 billion that you moved over. (multiple speakers) Was there other -- $1.7 billion; sorry about that.

Was there other loans that were the first that defaulted that are not nonaccruals in the HELOC portfolio?

TIM SLOAN: No.

PAUL MILLER: No? So this is the entire community of loans where the first has been defaulted?

JOHN STUMPF: Correct.

TIM SLOAN: Correct.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Hey, guys. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hey, guys. Hopefully I didn't miss it; I know you commented on NIM being under pressure, but (inaudible) loans. When we combine those two and think about your both capacity and desire to buy some more securities, how does that all shake out for net interest income dollars from here?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think as John said, we continue to believe that the net interest margin is going to be under pressure. Having said that, I think that we have got the ability to grow loans organically. We believe that we can do that. The core loans were up again this quarter, a little bit less than in third and the fourth quarter; but we feel confident about our ability to grow our core loans.

One of the other things that I think is important to note is that diversification in terms of the loan growth this quarter was a little bit better than the third and the fourth quarter, because we saw auto loans and student loans growing, whereas in the third and the fourth quarter it was a little bit more of a focus on Wholesale Banking. As it relates to -- but the other avenue we have, obviously, to grow loans is through acquisition. We have continued to demonstrate that we are active there and we are paying appropriate prices and bringing new customers to the Company.

In terms of securities purchases, we are going to continue to manage the portfolios we have very prudently. We are not going too far out on to the curve.

Having said that, if we got incremental liquidity that's not needed for our customers in terms of loans, we are going to invest appropriately. You saw our securities increase about $7 billion, $8 billion this quarter, so we will continue to do that.

Then I think the other point to make is just in terms of the input costs. That is, we have been able to continue to grow deposits while reducing our deposit costs. So we feel good about the ability to grow net interest income.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, great. Then separately, as we think about the provision expense, I was just looking at one of the slides. In the last few quarters the provision expense in dollars has been relatively stable. It seems like you still have quite a bit of excess loan loss reserves.

Most of the credit metrics continue to improve from here -- or up until here. How do we think about the pace of reserve releases going forward?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it's a fair question. I think we believe that we will have incremental reserve release, whether that -- I'm not 100% sure what the pace is going to be. We don't really make those decisions until the end of the quarter.

But we do think, based upon the continued improvement in the portfolio, which we continue to see, that we will have additional reserve release. But it's going to be less than it was last year. The pace of improvement has slowed down a little bit.

I think the important thing is that we have gotten through the point at which the lines of the reduction in the loan loss reserve release and the improvement in charge-offs cross, so that what we are seeing is a real kind of down division provision expense and net charge-off levels.

MATT O'CONNOR: Then just lastly if I could sneak in a third one here, the tax rate calculated was around 35% this quarter. It's averaged probably 25% to 33% the last three years.

Anything different? Or just a little more conservative earlier in the year?

TIM SLOAN: No, it was up a bit this quarter. We think that the tax rate for 2012 is going to be higher than last year because we're making more money; but beyond that, I wouldn't read anything into it.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. Just to further clarify, so your expense guidance is $250 million higher; and, John, you said you're not going to be slavish to any one target. Can you guys commit to having positive operating leverage?

TIM SLOAN: Yes.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, absolutely.

MIKE MAYO: So you are going to miss it, but revenues will be a lot more high -- or least higher than that $250 million, no matter how we slice it?

JOHN STUMPF: We're not saying that.

TIM SLOAN: No, we're not going to miss it. A year ago we gave guidance six quarters ahead, and we gave you a range of $10.75 billion to $11.250 billion. But we said then and we said now that was based upon a certain set of revenue assumptions. We're going to come in at the high end of the range.

JOHN STUMPF: Because revenues are at the high end.

TIM SLOAN: Because revenues are higher, not because we are not executing on our expense reductions.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. Then separately, John especially for you, if I asked you 15 years ago what bank this quarter might have some of the best year-over-year growth in investment banking -- as you guys said it's up 20%; record wholesale; and the biggest absolute growth in syndicated loan volume, would you ever have guessed it would be your Company as opposed to JPMorgan, Bank of America, Citi, Goldman, Morgan Stanley or some of these firms that are no longer around?

So my question really is -- is this mission creep? Is this opportunism? What has changed from going back?

I know you have evolved with your acquisitions, and I am sure we will talk more about this at Investor Day. But it seems as though you are getting farther away from what made at least legacy companies strong; and you are doing more activities further away from your headquarters. So how should we think about that?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, when I think of 15 years ago, I had a mustache and dark hair, so you are dating me now. But let's think about this, Mike.

The Company today clearly has evolved, but I think it is a more customer-relevant; safer; our risk profile is reduced from 15 years ago. And if you think about the business, look at the balance of the business today.

But before I get to that, what's stayed consistent is we continue to be a relationship business. We are in the relationship, the long-term relationship with our customers. And today we have more products to offer these customers to help them succeed financially.

We are more balanced. If you look at our income statement, this quarter half of the revenue comes from fees for services, half from the margin. Half comes basically from wholesale and half from consumer.

We now have diversity of geography. So I think if you look at that 15-year period you should even be happier today then -- and it is safer, more diversified, more customer-focused, more value. And we will talk about this more at Investor Day, but I think the evolution over that time reinforced what we were trying to do 15 years ago, not moving away from it.

MIKE MAYO: Then specifically as it relates to syndicated loans, again I am surprised if I look at first quarter of this year versus first quarter of last year. The biggest dollar amount increase in acting as agent for syndicated loans is Wells Fargo. I'm just --

JOHN STUMPF: You know what, Mike? That is a great thing, right? Why are people coming to -- why our customers coming to Wells Fargo? Because they believe in our model. They believe in the Company.

They like the people they work with. They know that we have got a strong balance sheet. They know that we're going to be able to deliver for us. That is a great thing. It diversifies the business and it reinforces the model.

Everything around here starts with the customer. Why wouldn't we want to help our customers? Why wouldn't we want -- if we deal with a large Fortune 500 company, and we are doing loan business with them, and they want to issue debt to buy a subsidiary or whatever, why wouldn't you want to help them do that?

We happen to have 15,000 terrific retail brokerage people out there, advisers who can help with that and sell this. And we have great people on -- to help them price the debt or the equity. This is what we ought to be doing.

MIKE MAYO: Then last follow-up --

JOHN STUMPF: Go ahead.

MIKE MAYO: No, no. I will let you finish too, but we can finish at the Investor Day. But is some of this opportunistic, though? Because the European Bank's market share in this area has gone from, what, 37% down to 21% over the past year.

So not only -- I guess I am hearing you say your clients want this more. But is this some Wells Fargo opportunism?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, of course. There are -- some of the foreign banks are retreating to their home countries. The industry has changed in a lot of these areas.

You know, we celebrated our 160th birthday a few weeks ago. We have always evolved. We always have changed in product offerings and channels. But what's stayed true around here and will continue to stay is that it is all about long-term relationships with our customers, helping them succeed.

So when I look at percentage changes from year-over-year or whatever, I don't -- first of all, percentages always have a enumerator and denominator. I don't get too excited about that.

What I get excited about is if we keep customers at the center of what we do, great things happen. It always does.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC: Good morning, guys.

JOHN STUMPF: Nancy, have you gone to your ATM lately?

NANCY BUSH: I have. Thank you very much for my special message. Now the people in the bank -- now I'm standing in front of the ATM laughing and the people in the bank think I'm crazy.

So anyway, two questions for you here. Something we haven't heard a lot about lately is Wells Fargo Financial. Could you start to talk about what the results have been since you have moved or tried to move the Wells Fargo Financial people into the branch?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, those folks, most of those folks on the production side -- many of them went into the banks and they become personal bankers. They are helping us serve customers, make loans. So yes, that has been very successful.

NANCY BUSH: Have you been able to track how many -- how much business you might have lost for people who just don't want to go into a bank branch to get their loan or whatever?

JOHN STUMPF: We have really not. But what has happened is we actually have more distribution now, because we got rid of 700 or 800 stores, but we picked up 3,000 with the acquisition of Wachovia. So I don't -- I have not heard, as I'm out there on the street I have not ever heard from anyone that I prefer not going to a bank, or I prefer going to a finance office.

What has changed mostly in that business, Nancy, is that much of what we did in Financial were loan accommodations, where we would take three or four different loans and be a debt consolidation on homes. Of course what has happened to home values, that business really changed a lot.

But the people we brought over were primarily lenders. They knew that part of the business well, so that helped enculturate even more in our banking stores this idea that we want to also be a great place to borrow money, if your credit qualifies.

NANCY BUSH: My second question goes back to this point, and it incorporates HARP and HAMP and all the other issues that we've had around mortgage banking. But it's an issue or it's a question that relates more to moral hazard going forward.

You know, we have had all these changes. People have found that they can have their principal reduced; they can have their rates reduced; etc. etc. So how does that impact your underwriting of a mortgage going forward?

Do you have to put a big orange sticker on it saying -- we really mean this; this is really what the thing is going to be? Or how do you think about that? How do you see yourself going forward?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, it's a great question. So a couple things first of all to think about. Of the 50 million mortgages in America, about 10 million or 11 million are underwater. And of those 11 million, 90% or so are current. So generally Americans by a vast majority want to pay their bills if they have the income to do it.

Secondly, you build your best portfolios, whether it is for your own account or whether you sell it off and keep the servicing, you build your best portfolios after a downturn, not going into a downturn. When the bubble is expanding you usually have your worst portfolio builds.

And the third thing is on the big yellow sticker, I don't know that -- or the orange sticker -- today, in fact since really 2008, the mortgage business has retrenched and it is more like it was done prior to 2002 or '03, where there is full documentation, income verification, a proper amount down depending on which program it is.

So, I'm -- and I think nothing would fix all of this more than a little appreciation in housing and getting to the bottom, which I think we are very close to that point where we are going to see an inflection point here. So I don't know if I answered your question, but that is how we think about it.

NANCY BUSH: But you think you are just getting a better customer who will treat their mortgage document a bit more carefully or take it more seriously going forward than did some of the people coming into this?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, Nancy, I think that's a good point. I think everybody involved in a mortgage needs to have skin in the game such that mortgages are good. I mean that is the originator, that is the borrower, that is the realtor that puts the borrower and whatever together if it is a purchase. It is people who package and the rating agencies and the servicing.

And the mortgages aren't complete until they pay off and it is well done. So it's the whole process. I think everybody is showing more care and diligence today, and that is a good thing.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Scott Siefers, Sandler O'Neill.

SCOTT SIEFERS, ANALYST, SANDLER O'NEILL & PARTNERS: Morning, guys. I just had a quick question on the mechanics of the new regulatory guidance and that $1.7 billion that you moved over. So since it is now in nonaccrual, obviously you don't accrue the interest. But the vast asset majority is still paying, so the cash is coming in.

When you receive that cash, does that go into NII now? Or does it go directly to pay down principal balances on the related loans? How does that work?

TIM SLOAN: Like all nonperforming assets -- or nonperforming loans, this isn't different; it pays down the principal.

SCOTT SIEFERS: Okay. So there is some -- in your case it is an extraordinarily small amount, but some go-forward ramification I guess to the earnings stream then?

TIM SLOAN: It's not material.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, it's just --

SCOTT SIEFERS: Yes, okay. Perfect. That was all I needed to know. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Freddie Cannon, KBW.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Hi, this is actually Brian Kleinhanzl on for Fred. So I just had a quick question on the rep and warranty. It looks like the repurchase demands are coming down, have been coming down over the last couple quarters; but the reserve keeps building from here.

Is there a target they are trying to get to? Or when can we finally see that the reserve is starting to come down for the rep and warranty?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, a fair question. Total demands outstanding, both number and balances, were down in the first quarter and were down roughly 25% year-over-year. The new agency demands for the more difficult vintages, the '06 to '08 vintages, declined a bit from the fourth quarter.

But the additions that we put into the reserves were more or less in line with last quarter. We continue to add to the reserve due to the elevated demands from Fannie and because of the projected higher mortgage insurance rescissions. Freddie has been in line, so we are hopeful it is going to come down at some point; but we just haven't seen it come down enough yet so that we would want to reduce the reserve.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Okay, great. Then on a separate topic, you used to give a disclosure about the excess liquidity that you have on the balance sheet. I haven't seen that the last couple quarters.

What is it that you think the excess liquidity is right now on the balance sheet? And given that the Basel committee just came out with -- saying that there is a large shortfall under their Basel III standards, what is your idea of what that excess liquidity is for you?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I don't recall -- we will go back. I don't recall us giving any sort of guidance as to what our excess liquidity is. I can tell you that we've got a lot of liquidity right now, which is terrific. It has allowed us to grow the loan portfolio year-over-year and grow the securities portfolio in a smart way.

We are still working through and the regulators are still working through what the new liquidity guidance is going to be, related to Basel III. There's a lot of discussion going on about that. But when you look at our balance sheet, particularly how we are continuing to grow low-cost deposits, we don't have a liquidity issue at all.

JOHN STUMPF: See, I think that is the key, Brian. When you look at this Company, our liquidity is such solid -- I mean, can you imagine $900 billion plus of deposits at 20 basis points and then virtually all of it's core? A big chunk of it is consumer. So this is just so, so valuable and so undervalued today, given where interest rates are.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Yes, and just a quick question on those deposit costs. I mean we saw them come down again this quarter, basically on that core funding. Is there still room for those to come down in the following quarters? They are already kind of at an industry low, so do you guys think there is a lot more room?

TIM SLOAN: You know what? Every time we get to a lower number, we talk to our folks and we ask them to continue to not compete on price; to compete on value and relationship. And I think that is one of the primary reasons we are able to continue to reduce costs.

Whether or not we're going to be able to continue to do that in the future, I don't know for sure.

JOHN STUMPF: We're getting pretty close here, but it's down 10 basis points in a year. I don't think if you sat here a year ago and said, could you bring them down 10? People would have said, I don't think you can.

So we're always looking to find that right area. But the reason they are coming down is more about the mix as opposed to -- we have to compete, as we do. But, you know, when you have the number of checking or near checking that we have, that is just magical.

BRIAN KLEINHANZL: Okay, great. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Just a follow-up on that last question, in terms of the margin guidance. You had talked about how, despite the 2 basis points better this quarter, that we should expect some pressure going forward.

Just hoping to get some color in terms of magnitude. Is it in the low single-digit range? And it also sounds like despite that you still feel confident in holding the NII up with loan growth and earning asset growth.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, Andrew, it's a fair question because there has been a lot of volatility in the NIM, which is candidly why we don't manage to it. I don't know what the NIM is going to be this quarter and I don't know what it's going to be next quarter.

What we do know is just the math is that there is pressure on it for sure. We are hopeful that we can continue to relieve that pressure as best we can through a reduction in our deposit costs.

But in terms of specifics, I am not going to provide any guidance because I can't.

JOHN STUMPF: But Andrew, you are right in the fact that -- forget the margin, look at net interest income. That is really what drives us, because that is the result of the work we do every day of getting new customers and selling more things and so forth, getting deposits and selling loans.

I wake up and think about that more than I do about the NIM. And there we think we have good opportunities to continue to produce the kind of things that drive net interest income.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. So is it fair to assume then the confidence in terms of a higher NIM really won't come until the macro backdrop really improves in terms of a higher rate environment? Is that fair, or maybe the runoff portfolio slows?

JOHN STUMPF: I think it -- I wouldn't say it is confidence, I think it is more probability. I think it is less likely that the NIM is going to grow. Not impossible, because we have been able to grow it a little bit over a few basis points in the last couple of quarters since the decline in the third quarter last year. It is just a little bit less likely.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Then lastly, just on the -- going back to expenses in terms of the slight change in terms of the guidance for year-end, at the upper end now. You had mentioned that that is driven by higher confidence in revenue. We're feeling better about revenue than you had before.

Can you help us understand exactly what part -- where exactly do you feel better about it? Is it really in mortgage banking or trading, or what is it that makes you feel better?

JOHN STUMPF: Across the board.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, so no one particular area feeling better in terms of mortgage having greater strength, or trading coming in better?

JOHN STUMPF: No.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Great. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Mr. Irrelevant again. Hey, John, how are you? Tim? I think this is the second quarter I'm dead last. Hey, I'll take that; thank you for the time.

Three quick questions. Tim, on the -- the margin guidance in terms of percent or dollar amounts, does that take into consideration perhaps more aggressive TruP redemptions than just the $875 million announced today, or redeeming today?

TIM SLOAN: No, we are getting through the really the trail end of the TruPS redemptions that we are going to be doing. Most of the activity occurred last year, so that's -- we will continue to redeem TruPS in an appropriate way; but it's not going to be as big a driver as it was last year.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. The second thing is, gain on sale margins this quarter versus last quarter, do you have those handy on the mortgage side?

JOHN STUMPF: For the mortgage?

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Yes.

TIM SLOAN: This quarter it was I think 2.36%, and that is up from 1.9% in the fourth quarter.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Then finally, with the robo-signing settlements, do you have discretion on who you modify? In other words, can you modify the firsts that are delinquent ahead of the -- ahead of your own home equity loans?

TIM SLOAN: We certainly have discretion in terms of what you modify. There is not a -- there aren't specific requirements for specific borrowers. We made -- and there is a lot of detail in our 10-K in terms of the specifics on the settlement. Rather than go through that in detail right now, I would just ask you to take a peek at that. We provide a lot of detail about how we see the settlement and how it would affect us.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Thank you so much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, everybody, and thanks for joining our call. We appreciate your interest and also of the ones who asked the questions. Thank you much and we will see you next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's conference. Thank you all for participating, and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | c26 : Product Safety | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120427e84d000xd
  


 HD
 Q4  2011 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,415 words
   PD
17 January 2012
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©012 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Please note that today's call is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Mr. Rowe, you may begin your conference.

   TD
JIM ROWE, IR, DIRECTOR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Regina. Good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf and our CFO, Tim Sloan, will review fourth-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Jim. Good morning and happy new year and thanks for joining us today. A year ago, we were excited about all the opportunities we had ahead of us, even in a challenging economic environment. And I couldn't be more pleased with all that we accomplished in 2011. We earned a record $15.9 billion, up 28% from 2010. We grew deposits by $72 billion, up 9%. We grew loans by $12 billion and grew our core loan portfolio by $33 billion.

We achieved record retail banking cross-sell of 5.9 products per household. We improved credit quality with net charge-offs down 36% from a year ago. We began our expense initiative and remained focused on our target of $11 billion in noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of this year, 2012.

We grew ROA by 24 basis points and increased ROE by 160 basis points. And we remain committed to helping homeowners stay in their homes with over 720,000 active or completed loan modifications initiated since the beginning of 2009.

We also increased capital levels while providing shareholders with a higher return on their investment by increasing our dividend and repurchasing 86 million shares of common stock. We also redeemed $9.2 billion of high cost trust preferred securities. We accomplished all of this while completing the conversion of Wachovia's retail banking stores, the largest conversion in banking history. Our 6239 retail banking stores are now on a single platform serving customers coast-to-coast.

In most mergers in financial services, customer service typically declines, but our team members remain committed to providing outstanding customer service as reflected in Wells Fargo once again ranking number one in customer satisfaction among large banks based on a national survey.

2011 was a remarkable year, but I am even more excited about the opportunities that lie ahead as we enter 2012 as One Wells Fargo. We have submitted our Board-approved capital plan to the Fed and we are focused on returning even more capital to our shareholders. We remain focused on better serving our existing customers and welcoming new customers as we grow marketshare both organically and through acquisitions.

And we remain committed to strengthening the overall economy by lending to our business customers to fund growth and create jobs by helping homeowners stay in their homes through participating in home preservation workshops and loan modifications and by being active volunteers in the communities where we live and where we work. This vision has guided us for decades. Meeting our customers' financial needs will continue to drive our growth in the year ahead.

Let me now turn this over to Tim Sloan for more detail on our financial results. Tim?

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, John and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then take your questions. As John highlighted, we achieved outstanding results in 2011, including a very strong fourth quarter. We generated record earnings of $4.1 billion, up 1% from the third quarter and up 20% from a year ago. Earnings per share were a record $0.73, also up 1% from last quarter and 20% from a year ago. This is the eighth consecutive quarter of EPS growth. In fact, by almost any measure, our results in the fourth quarter moved in the right direction, demonstrating the underlying strength of our diversified franchise.

We had linked quarter growth in revenue with growth in both net interest income and noninterest income. We had higher pre-tax pre-provision profits, loans, deposits and securities available for sale. We also had strong credit quality and our capital levels continued to grow.

On page 3, we highlight our continued strong diversification, which is a major differentiator for Wells Fargo and is a key driver of our ability to generate growth over time and through various economic cycles and interest rate environments.

Let me start with a few highlights of the drivers behind our balance sheet and income statement growth and I will add more detail later in my remarks. Starting with the balance sheet, we generated strong loan growth this quarter with loans up $9.5 billion. Our core loan portfolio, which excludes the planned run-off from the liquidating portfolio, was up $13.7 billion from the third quarter. We once again purchased securities this quarter with balances up $15.4 billion from the third quarter as we continued to redeploy cash. We also generated strong deposit growth with balances up $24.6 billion.

Now let's turn to the income statement. Revenue grew by 5% from the third quarter, driven by strong loan growth and deposit growth, as well as fee growth throughout our diversified businesses. Expenses increased as expected in the fourth quarter, but we are still targeting $11 billion of noninterest expense in the fourth quarter of 2012.

Let me now cover our results in more detail. As shown on page 6, period-end loans were up $9.5 billion from the third quarter, our third consecutive quarter of loan growth while we continued to reduce the size of our liquidating portfolio. Excluding the runoff of $4.2 billion of liquidating loans, our core loans grew by $13.7 billion, including organic loan growth of $6 billion. Commercial loans grew $5.6 billion driven by portfolio acquisitions, new loans and new customer activity.

Loan growth in the fourth quarter included the purchase of $2.1 billion of US-based commercial real estate loans. We have purchased several portfolios over the past few quarters, which reflect our ability to capitalize on the opportunities generated in this business environment and provide attractive returns for our shareholders. While we already have relationships with many of these customers, these portfolio purchases also provide us with new customers that we hope to do more business with in the future.

Consumer loans also grew this quarter, up $3.9 billion from the third quarter, driven by the reconsolidation of $5.6 billion of reverse mortgage loans and was reduced by the run-off of $3.6 billion of liquidating consumer loans. We had loan growth in our core auto portfolio. Our credit card portfolio growth reflected strong account growth and seasonality. We believe we are well-positioned to grow loans organically and through acquisitions and we expect loan growth to continue.

We also continue to generate strong deposit growth with average deposits up $29.5 billion from the third quarter and up $74 billion or 9% from a year ago. Average core checking and savings deposits grew $30.9 billion, or 4% from the third quarter and were up 12% from a year ago. Consumer checking accounts were up 3.2% from a year ago. We achieved this growth while continuing to bring down our deposit costs, which were 22 basis points in the fourth quarter, down 3 basis points from the third quarter and down 9 basis points from a year ago. We have grown deposits while reducing our deposit costs for five consecutive quarters.

Tax-equivalent net interest income increased $369 million from the third quarter, benefiting from a $24 billion increase in average earning assets and a 5 basis point increase in net interest margin. Earning asset growth this quarter was broad-based with increases in loans, securities and mortgages held for sale. We funded the growth in these assets by continuing to successfully attract low-cost deposits and by reducing cash and other short-term investments.

The balance sheet continued to reprice in this low rate environment, but we were able to offset that through pricing discipline, including a 4 basis point decline in interest-bearing deposit costs and reducing long-term debt by $10 billion in the fourth quarter.

Noninterest income increased $627 million from the third quarter, or 7%. This growth was driven by an increase in mortgage banking revenue of $531 million, up 29% from the third quarter, driven by higher margins and strong originations. Originations increased $31 billion, or 35% from the third quarter. The unclosed mortgage pipeline remained very strong at $72 billion at quarter-end. Trading, debt and equity gains were up $337 million from the third quarter. Linked quarter growth in trading gains benefited from $275 million of higher deferred compensation plan investment results, which is offset in expense and stronger core customer accommodation trading. The linked quarter comparison also benefits because you'll recall that the third quarter included a loss from resolving one legacy Wachovia position.

Noninterest income also benefited from a $153 million gain on the sale of H.D. Vest in the fourth quarter. Credit card fees were down $333 million from the third quarter, reflecting the first quarter of lower debit interchange fees, which reduced debit card fees by $365 million in the fourth quarter. Card fees benefited this quarter from strong growth in consumer credit cards with new account growth up 6% from the third quarter and up 90% from the fourth quarter of 2010, driven by very strong growth in the East.

Noninterest expense increased 7% from the third quarter. We highlighted in the call last quarter that we expected expenses to increase in the fourth quarter. Let me walk you through the drivers of the increase in slide 11. Third-quarter expenses included a $210 million benefit due to lower deferred compensation expenses and the fourth quarter had a net deferred compensation expense of $56 million. These two amounts increased fourth-quarter expenses by $266 million compared to the third quarter.

After adjusting for this amount, the remaining increase in expenses were driven by three primary factors. First, mortgage and capital markets personnel expense increased approximately $300 million driven by higher revenue in the quarter, which is largely reflected in higher incentive compensation.

Secondly, we had seasonally higher equipment costs and higher foreclosed asset expense. Combined, these increased expenses by approximately $200 million. Finally, we had approximately $100 million of higher costs associated with the mortgage servicing regulatory consent order.

We currently expect first-quarter expenses to remain elevated driven by seasonally higher comp and benefit expenses and our final quarter of Wachovia integration expenses, but partially offset by continued gains from our expense initiatives.

In the second quarter of 2012, we expect expenses will decline by $500 million to $700 million from the first quarter driven by the elimination of merger expenses and lower comp and benefit expenses, which, as I just mentioned, will be seasonally higher in the first quarter.

Our expenses in 2012 will reflect the benefit from our expense initiative and we continue to target noninterest expenses declining to $11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012. We expect to capture most of the savings through the consolidation of consumer lending businesses, combining staff functions and technology groups, moderation of cyclically high mortgage costs, including loss remediation and simplifying customer interaction to improve service and efficiencies.

Turning briefly to our segment results starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $2.5 billion, up 8% from the third quarter, driven by stronger mortgage banking revenue. Sales trends remain strong. Core product sales in the West were $7.6 million, up 9% from the prior year and core product sales in the East continue to grow by double digits. Retail banking cross-sell continued to grow to a record 5.92 products per household, up from 5.7 a year ago. And while cross-sell in the East continued to grow to 5.43, there is still plenty of opportunity to further increase cross-sell to the 6.29 products per household in the West.

Wholesale Banking earned $1.6 billion, down $172 million from the third quarter, reflecting lower loan loss reserve release. Revenue increased 5% from the third quarter as many businesses, including commercial real estate, (inaudible) banking, government banking and international generated strong loan and deposit growth and fixed income, sales and trading and investment banking results benefited from improved market conditions.

Wholesale Banking continued to generate strong broad-based loan growth from both new and existing customers with average loans up $11.4 billion, or 4% from the third quarter. This growth reflects the purchase of $2.1 billion of US-based commercial real estate loans, as well as growth across all portfolios, including commercial banking, which has grown loans for 17 consecutive months, international, commercial real estate, capital finance, asset-backed finance, government banking and corporate banking.

Average core deposits increased $14 billion from the third quarter, up 7% and are up $38 billion, or 21% from a year ago. Wholesale Banking businesses continued to increase marketshare, including our investment banking marketshare growing from 4.2% in 2010 to 5.1% in 2011.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $325 million, up 12% from the third quarter. This growth was driven by a 6% increase in revenue. Revenue benefited from the $153 million gain on the sale of H.D. Vest and $59 million of deferred compensation from investment gains compared to a $128 million loss in the third quarter. Excluding these items, revenue was down 5% on lower asset-based fees, Retail Brokerage transaction revenue and securities gains.

Average core deposits increased $3.2 billion, up 2% from the third quarter, reflecting both a flight to quality and our continued success in attracting client assets, including deposits. Managed account assets were up 7% from the third quarter driven by strong net inflows. Since managed account asset fees are priced on a quarterly lag, first-quarter revenue will benefit from the improved fourth-quarter markets. Our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs is reflected in achieving a record cross-sell of over 10 products per WBR household.

Our credit quality remained strong in the quarter as shown on page 16. Net charge-offs were stable from the third quarter and down 51% from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009. We remain pleased with how our loan portfolios are performing and we expect them to continue to improve in 2012.

Reflecting our continued improvement in credit quality, we had a $600 million reserve release in the fourth quarter. Absent a significant deterioration in the economy, we continue to expect future reserve releases in 2012.

Nonperforming assets continued to decline, down $879 million from the third quarter, reflecting a $596 million decline in nonaccrual loans driven by lower commercial real estate nonaccruals and a $283 million decrease in foreclosed assets. Loans 90 days or more past-due were up modestly $119 million while early-stage retail delinquency balances were stable with rates up modestly on lower loan balances.

On page 18, we highlight what we believe our mortgage servicing portfolio is the best in the industry. The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio, or 69%, is serviced through the agencies. Our private securitizations where we originated the loans are a very low portion of our total portfolio.

Reflecting the quality of our portfolio, our delinquency and foreclosure rate was over 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recent publicly available data. Our total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.96% in the fourth quarter, down from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter of 2009, but up modestly from the third quarter due to seasonality. Total repurchase demands were stable compared to the third quarter and were down approximately 31% from a year ago.

As shown on page 20, our capital position continued to improve with our Tier 1 common equity ratio increasing to 9.46% and our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals growing to 7.49%. We redeemed $5.8 billion of trust preferred securities in the fourth quarter with a weighted average coupon of 8.42%. We purchased 26.6 million shares in the fourth quarter and an additional estimated 5.6 million shares through a full repurchase transaction that will settle in the first quarter of 2012.

As John mentioned at the beginning of the call, we submitted our capital plan earlier this month and we expect a response no later than March 15. We have a great story to tell reflecting the performance of our diversified model and the strength of our balance sheet. We remain focused on returning more capital to our shareholders as we continue to grow our capital levels.

In summary, our strong fourth-quarter and full-year 2011 results reflected the benefit of our diversified model, which provides us with many opportunities for growth. In the fourth quarter, we grew earnings, revenue, loans, deposits and capital with strong contributions throughout our consumer and commercial businesses.

As we begin the new year, we are encouraged by the signs the US economy is doing better and we believe Wells Fargo is in a unique position to further benefit from the opportunities that drove our record performance in 2011. I will now open up the call for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Good morning. If I could just focus on the net interest margin percent and net interest income dollars to start, last quarter, the market was disappointed in the NIM percent specifically. You guys probably had one of the worst NIMs last quarter. It seems like this quarter, you will probably have one of the best ones. I appreciate there is a lot of moving pieces, but, as you look forward, maybe you can give some insight on how you think the NIM percent and the net interest income dollars will trend from here and if we can expect similar volatility to what we have seen.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Matt, you focused on the fact that it is difficult to look at the NIM on a quarterly basis and there can be some volatility quarter to quarter. So I don't want to provide any specific guidance on the NIM, but, as we have said generally, we think that the NIM is trending down a bit given that rates are lower.

However, as you pointed out, our net interest income was up and the reason the net interest income was up was because we were able to grow loans and continued to invest in high quality securities.

MATT O'CONNOR: And then I guess as a follow-up on that, as I think about the loans that are running off and the loans that you are purchasing, they are starting to converge a little bit in terms of magnitude. Meaning just the run-off is less of a drag so far. Going forward, there have obviously been some portfolios in the news, some speculation of you bidding on some, but what do you think the opportunity is for additional loan purchases from here? And maybe some comment on how those yields compare to what is running off.

JOHN STUMPF: Matt, we are kicking lots of tires. We are in a unique position that we are not capital-constrained. We can do things that make good sense for us economically for our stockholders. As you know, and you know Wells Fargo well, we are cautious. It would have to make a lot of sense for us and if all we get out of this is sore toes, that is fine also because we don't have to do something. But the deals we have done so far we like a lot. It brings customers, it brings earning assets and of course, we are not going to do these things unless they are good economically for us.

So that is just one of the opportunities we have going forward. And I suspect we will see more things and again, if we do some, they will be done the right way. If we don't do any, that is also fine.

MATT O'CONNOR: And how do the yields compare? You show us the run-off portfolio yields, but how about the loans that you are purchasing and might be looking at? How do those yields compare to what is running off?

JOHN STUMPF: These are attractive IRRs. We wouldn't do them unless that would be the case.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, one follow-up on Matt's question on liquidity. Tim, maybe just a little bit of color on what led you to deploy liquidity this quarter and into what did you deploy that? And do you still fell like you are sitting on excess liquidity and what will drive the pace at which you further deploy the liquidity you have?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. Well, as you know, the first call on our liquidity at anytime is going to be for loans. We had good loan growth this quarter, both organically and through acquisition, which we are excited about. When you look at our investments in the securities portfolio, they really weren't a whole lot different than what we looked at in the third quarter. The timing was a little bit different because, if you recall in the third quarter, there was a lot of volatility that occurred in a good portion of the third quarter. So we invested more or less ratably across the quarter, which is a good thing. We really didn't change the complexion of the securities portfolio. We continue to invest in high quality assets across duration. The duration of the portfolio didn't significantly change.

As to your last question about capacity, one of the great things about the Company is that we are continuing to grow deposits and we feel like we have more than ample liquidity to continue to grow and service our existing customers, maybe look at some acquisitions, as John mentioned and continue to invest in the securities portfolio.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on expenses, could you talk a little bit more color about the drivers of the decline that you expect in the second quarter? Specifically, first, the merger integration expenses will stop in the second quarter. Will those stop for good? And then also in the personnel decline that you are talking about in the second quarter, is that seasonal or the mortgage banking or is this some of the consolidation of functions that you are doing? Can you give a little more color there?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. So if you go back to slide 11, I think that the first part -- I'm sorry -- slide 12 -- the first part of the question relates to the integration. The integration expenses will be over in the first quarter. So we won't be talking about them again after the first quarter. So that is number one.

Number two, the incentive compensation and expenses and employee comp in the first quarter is more seasonal. It is not necessarily cyclical; it is not necessarily tied to any business. It is just in the first quarter you tend to have more incentive comp in terms of when you recognize it, as well as the fact that you might recognize payroll taxes at a higher rate in the first quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then if you were going to walk us down from second quarter down to the fourth quarter where you hope to get to $11 billion, the drivers of that would be the other things in this table on page 12?

TIM SLOAN: Correct. And again, to reiterate, we feel good about being able to see the expenses decline from the first to the second quarter by $500 million to $700 million, which takes us a long way to get to that $11 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the last thing from me is, on share repurchases, the forward contract that you entered for the first quarter of 5.6 million, is that the entirety of what you are approved for this quarter or you have approval to do additional open market purchases in the first quarter beyond that?

TIM SLOAN: I am not going to comment on any specifics of the capital plan from last year, as well as what we submitted for this year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, okay. You just said you hope to do more in 2012. I guess you said that already, Tim?

TIM SLOAN: That's correct. Yes, more is more, as I said before and our shareholders have been very patient and we will have to just wait until the 15th of March.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of America-Merrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA-MERRILL LYNCH: Good morning, everybody. Could you give us a sense of what you think in terms of mitigating some of the Durbin headwind on what you could accomplish with regards to implementing deposit fees in 2012?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Erika, we have talked a lot about the fact that, in most cases, our customers pay for all the convenience we offer them through more products and services with us. And that has always been the case around here and in fact, if you look at the hit we took in the fourth quarter now that the debit interchange numbers are all through, it actually was a little less than the 250 after-tax that we had talked about because we are doing more business and we actually have more accounts now. But we are always looking at ways to tighten our belt, offer more value, look at ways that customers -- how they want to pay us for the services we provide and that is an ongoing process.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay. And I hear the message loud and clear in terms of not answering any questions about what was submitted to the regulators with regards to your capital plan, but I had a timing question. I am wondering if there are opportunities that are more sizable for M&A that could be coming out of Europe or even the US, does the fact that you are not going to get an answer from the Fed until March 15 deter you from doing anything between now and then.

JOHN STUMPF: There was some background noise during the question, so if people would put their phones on mute that would be great while they are not speaking, but anyway. We have -- as I mentioned, we continue to kick tires. We are looking at things and we will do that. We are doing that continuously. But again, we are cautious. We don't have to do anything. If we do something, it will be a bolt-on business or it will be an add to something we are doing right now either in terms of capability or capacity or new customers and that will continue even during this process.

ERIKA PENALA: But just to follow up and clarify, the fact that the capital plan is outstanding for approval doesn't impact your ability to make an announcement before March 15 in terms of any M&A?

JOHN STUMPF: No, it does not.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Good morning, guys. Real quick, it looks like you grew your residential loans by $6 billion looking at the average balance sheet. If I am incorrect, can you tell me what did you grow it by and if you did, was that change of policy? It is the first time we have seen some material growth in that residential portfolio.

TIM SLOAN: Paul, we did reconsolidate $5.6 billion of reverse mortgages that we had previously sold based upon some clarifying guidance that the SEC provided to the entire industry. So that was the primary driver for the growth in the residential loan line this quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: The economics stay the same, Paul. It's more of an accounting --

TIM SLOAN: We earn a servicing fee that loans continue to be insured by the FHA, so it was more of an accounting transaction than anything.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, okay, thanks a lot, guys. And real quick, on the HAMP program that was announced over the quarter, do you think that is going to be material? Are you guys at all -- do you think there is still too many roadblocks for that program to have any impact at all on the mortgage market? Not the HAMP -- HARP, the HARP, the HARP?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, you are talking about HARP 2?

PAUL MILLER: Yes, HARP 2.0.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, there is going to be some customers and we are ramping up. We are going to be helping them and it is hard to say today how many and so forth, but we are eager to help customers who have 7% and 8% coupons refinance down to 4% notwithstanding their loan-to-value issue, which has been the issue. But again, it is hard for me to predict how big that will be.

Incidentally, with HARP 1, we have been doing a lot of those. This kind of takes it above the 125 or whatever the number is. So we will catch a few in there, but I don't -- this is not going to be a refinance boom equal to 2003 for example. There has been a lot of refinancing going on, but there are some customers here and we are eager to help them.

TIM SLOAN: Paul, I think the administration set an expectation of about a million mortgages as part of this program and that seems about right to us.

PAUL MILLER: We have seen a lot of turmoil come out of Fannie and Freddie recently, a lot of the political fallout from their high salaries. You saw Williams just step down. Are you seeing -- do you think this is a negative for Fannie and Freddie going forward or you don't think it is really -- it's business as usual out there?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I don't know that I would focus on that. I mean we are focused on helping customers and whatever happens with Fannie and Freddie -- I mean we are getting support and approvals that we need. Of course, you know there has been a small increase in the [GPs]. That probably affects things more than what is happening at Fannie and Freddie's management level.

PAUL MILLER: Hey, guys, thank you very much. Have a good one.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. Just two quick questions. Tim, I appreciate no sort of forecast for the net interest margin, but do you mind going over some of the big pieces that you see in terms of your ongoing ability to reduce funding costs like more TruPS redemptions, long-term debt, lower deposit costs? Can you just sort of remind us how you sort of think about the opportunity remaining?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. Let's start in reverse order. I think, first, on lower deposit costs, I mean the team has done a terrific job over the last couple of years of reducing deposit costs and given where rates are today, we think that there is still more room to reduce deposit costs. Specifically what the number is, I don't know on a quarterly basis, but if you have seen the last couple of quarters, it has been pretty consistent and so we are optimistic that we will continue to make progress even as we grow deposits, which is pretty important. I think if we were reducing deposit costs and not growing deposits, that would probably not be a good thing.

In terms of the TruPS, we called about 7 -- we have about $7.5 billion that are still outstanding and $2.7 billion have a call date in 2012. Beyond that, I don't want to provide any specific guidance about the TruPS. That is part of our capital plan submission, so we will leave it at that.

In terms of long-term debt, we think that we have done a nice job of reducing overall debt. I think over time -- and our overall debt over the last three years I think is down 53%, which is really good results. But I think over time you will probably see us be a little bit more active in the market as opposed to continuing to decrease long-term debt. But I do think given where rates and spreads are that we can reduce our overall debt costs even if we do have to raise some debt in the future.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks. And is there a portion of noninterest-bearing deposits that we should think about maybe going away in 2012 because of escrow deposits related to the very strong mortgage origination quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Well, escrow deposits were up I think slightly. Actually I can't recall the specific number off the top of my head, (multiple speakers), but they were up a bit and that is really reflective of what is going on in the mortgage market. Certainly if the mortgage market continues to be as strong as it is right now, they will be the same. If the mortgage market comes down a bit, escrows will be down, but those are the only deposits I would look at as being concerned about -- noninterest-bearing deposits being concerned about moving away based upon what is going on in the economy.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you. And then, finally, sort of mixed trends on the linked quarter credit quality improvement. We saw delinquencies tick up a bit. Could you put a little more color around your thoughts? You mentioned that you thought you expected more reserve release in 2012. Don't really expect you to quantify that, but maybe that thought in conjunction with sort of the trends we saw in credit metrics this quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: A fair question. Overall, we were very pleased with credit. We continue to have very strong credit. Where we are right now is consistent with the expectations that we have been talking about for the last couple of quarters and consistent with what we are seeing at this part of the credit cycle.

NPAs were down almost $900 million on a linked quarter basis. That was very nice progress. Charge-offs were stable. Retail delinquencies, 30 plus delinquencies were normally up in the fourth quarter due to seasonality and they were stable this quarter. So we are pleased about that. It is an item that we have all forgotten about, but our PCI loans continue to perform better than what are expectations, now almost $4 billion better than our original projections and that we still have 27.5% coverage in terms of the nonaccretable on the PCI.

So we continue to feel good on credit. Our expectation is that credit will continue to improve throughout this year. It is not going to improve at the same -- we don't think it will improve at the same rate as what we saw over the last couple of years, but we will continue to see improvement. And again, as you mentioned and I reiterated, I think the fact of the matter is that our loan loss reserve releases are likely to continue this year.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks a lot. That's helpful. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Todd Hagerman, Sterne Agee.

TODD HAGERMAN, ANALYST, STERNE AGEE: Good morning, everybody. Just want to follow up on the last question. Just how should we -- Tim, with your outlook on credit and again, just you look at kind of the stabilizing trends that we've seen the last couple of quarters, if I think about the loan loss release and your expectations, how is the -- how is the housing market kind of factored into the equation and the consumer in particular as you guys look out the next 12 to 18 months?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the housing market clearly is factored into how we think about our loan loss reserve. And to the extent that the housing market gets better, that is a good thing. If it gets worse, it is a bad thing. But the primary driver in terms of consumer delinquencies and losses is jobs. That is the primary focus from our perspective in terms of the portfolio.

But again, at this point in the cycle where we have had a lot of improvement and the economy is growing, but grown very slowly, it is not a surprise that we've seen a couple of quarters of reduced improvement. But remember, even in this quarter, even in this quarter, our consumer losses were down, which we were pretty pleased with.

JOHN STUMPF: And think of it this way, since 2008, underwriting in some of these portfolios had changed. So all of a sudden, you have 8 and 9 and 10, 11, that becomes a more substantial part of your portfolio. And if you look at our delinquencies on residential real estate and you look at how well we are doing in commercial, I couldn't be happier with our progress on credit.

TODD HAGERMAN: I guess what I am getting at is just in terms of the embedded reserve and granted your coverage ratios are very strong, but I guess what I'm driving at is kind of the embedded or assumptions in terms of home price decline, unemployment, that sort of thing in terms of as you factor into your outlook on credit.

JOHN STUMPF: That is all factored in there. We look at that, we consider that. We obviously have a -- we stress these portfolios and we look at indicators. And as Tim mentioned, on the consumer side, where you typically see a seasonal run-up in consumer delinquency, we didn't. So that bodes well for the future.

TODD HAGERMAN: Okay. And then if I could just real quickly switching gears just on the mortgage side, the reps and warranties cost ticked up a little bit in the quarter. Could you just talk about kind of just again the trends that you are seeing? Is that something that should be -- is it going to be fairly lumpy? Is it something specific more with Fannie versus Freddie in the quarter in terms of the earlier stage delinquency buckets, if you will? Just kind of trying to get a gauge on what your expectations -- what happened in the quarter.

TIM SLOAN: Actually, the fourth-quarter results in terms of the mortgage repurchase reserve were pretty stable. Total demands outstanding both in terms of the number and the balance were stable in the fourth quarter. And recall they are down over 30% from the prior year.

The new demands that we saw for the '06 to '08 vintages are still up, as John said. That was the vintages that are most problematic. But again, for us, relative to the rest of the industry, it is less of an issue. But they were up for Fannie. That has been consistent now for about three quarters. Freddie was still within our expectations, but, again, it is important to note that our realized losses were $272 million, which were down in the fourth quarter from $384 million in the third quarter.

TODD HAGERMAN: Great, thanks very much, Tim.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, NOMURA SECURITIES: Hi. On the FHA insured loans that are 90 days more past-due and still accruing, I recognize the risk really isn't on your balance sheet, but can you just talk about the trends? They seem to be bouncing around between $14 billion and $15 billion up until the middle of this year. And then there has been a pretty significant ramp over the past six months. Is that timing or is that deterioration of FHA loans overall? And as a follow-up, is there any signs that there could be risk to the banking industry of the FHA potentially putting some of these losses to the banks?

TIM SLOAN: Well, let me jump on the first part of your question, then I will let John answer the last one. I think that what you are seeing is the fact that we are a very large mortgage lender in this country and that our volumes are up and our marketshare is up. So it is understandable that because our FHA/VA origination volume has increased since the end of 2008 that there is going to be a natural increase in delinquency.

If you look at the performance of these mortgages relative to what we have seen in history, they are not performing any -- they are actually performing better than what we have seen historically. It is just that we are a bigger lender. And as you point out, these continue to be guaranteed by FHA and VA. John, I don't know if you have any comments about FHA and VA.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, we have not seen any change in how they handle their guarantees and their situations, so I have nothing to report on that.

BRIAN FORAN: Fair enough. And a separate question, I guess ambitions in capital markets and Retail Brokerage and specifically, a lot of things are coming to market as other banks are forced to deleverage and as some of the wholesale business models come under pressure. How do you think about the trade-off between organic growth in those areas versus any pockets where acquisitions might make more sense?

JOHN STUMPF: As I mentioned in either my formal comments or just maybe a few minutes ago, we are kicking tires, we are kicking lots of tires and our use of capital on the acquisition side will be for businesses that are bolt on to existing areas of expertise that we have and you have seen that recently where we did a couple things with Irish assets here in the US. It will be places where we can either add skill or scale or customers and it will -- and think of things starting with customers. That is kind of who we are. So -- and if we do -- like I mentioned, if we do some things, it will be done right, the right price. It will be compelling for our stockholders. If we can't find those things, we won't do them. So it is really that simple.

BRIAN FORAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, John. Happy new year to you. Tim, I had a quick question just to follow up on the securities portfolio. I mean I know you said that you bought throughout the quarter, but there is still a pretty big difference between the end-of-period balances and the average balances for the available-for-sale. So should I suspect to see the average balances on the available-for-sale to catch up to the end-of-period balances in first quarter? There is about a $20 billion difference between the two right now.

TIM SLOAN: That may be the case. Again, I think sometimes when you look at the quarterly numbers, you can get a little bit of distortion. But I think that it is more likely that they will catch up than not.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. And similar to that, on the trading side, your trading assets on an end-of-period basis were roughly $77 billion or so and they have been running more in the mid-$50 billions. Is that $77 billion a decent run rate going forward in 2012 for that line item?

TIM SLOAN: I don't think so. It is a good question though. The primary driver for the increase was that we had some conforming mortgage production -- agency conforming mortgage production that we decided to hold over through the end of the year because we thought we could get a better execution in the first part of 2012. Because the production had already been securitized just by accounting definitions, it had to be classified as a trading asset. We have now -- it was about $20 billion as you point out. About $19 billion of that $20 billion has already settled and we will settle the remaining $1 billion sometime this week. So I would not look at that increase and the $77 billion as the run rate in the future.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: But there is no economic gain in first quarter with the $19 billion removal from trading assets?

TIM SLOAN: There was a modest positive impact in the fourth quarter. There will be a gain in the first quarter, but it is not significant to the Company.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Got you. All right, thanks very much.

TIM SLOAN: We just thought we could get a better execution.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. First question on loan utilization in commercial and industrial loans. Has that picked up or is this really acquisitions and marketshare gain?

JOHN STUMPF: It is acquisitions and marketshare gain. We have seen nothing really -- just very, very modest. It didn't account for much.

MIKE MAYO: And so this commercial loan growth that we are seeing in the industry, why are we seeing it if there is not that natural demand?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, first of all, there are fewer players that are sharing it and we have more people on the street and an offering that includes not only loans, but other things that help customers succeed. And we are not capital-constrained.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. (multiple speakers). And you didn't mention Europe to the extent that there is opportunities there.

TIM SLOAN: You mean like to buy in Europe or to buy European --?

MIKE MAYO: Marketshare gains.

TIM SLOAN: Well, we are -- 98% of our revenues come from the United States, 98% of our people are here. We are really focused on -- there is so much growth and so much opportunity here, I wouldn't rule out -- I never say never in anything, but I can tell you we are really focused on serving our domestic customers now that we have Wachovia integrated and surely, we help individuals and companies as they do business overseas and vice versa. But our focus is really -- our primary focus, I should put it that way, is domestic.

MIKE MAYO: So how does the European crisis impact you if at all? Is it a nonevent or (multiple speakers) impact?

JOHN STUMPF: It impacts us as foreign banks, especially European banks, are trying to solve for their capital requirements. And they are, as you have seen, offering assets and businesses for sale and we have been successful in some of those. And our direct exposure to the five most challenged countries, the sovereign exposure is next to nil and our overall exposure is also very small, so we don't have a lot of direct exposure to the troubled countries of Europe. But surely, if Europe challenges worsen and I am not saying I expect that, but if they do worsen, that would have an impact on the overall US economy or could have an impact and then we could get impacted. But our exposure is quite indirect, if you will.

MIKE MAYO: And then last question, on your expense plan, when you talk about it, you talk about getting rid of your merger expenses and a lower comp and benefits and it doesn't sound so structural. It sounds kind of cyclical, just the way you talk about it. I know you've said there is some technology in consumer lending. Can you just explain in more general terms why do you have these extra expense savings? I guess you are looking to go from $12.5 billion down to $11 billion by the fourth quarter this year. Is this all just the cycle or is there something more fundamental happening?

JOHN STUMPF: I think there is something more fundamental that is happening. The progress that we are making is being masked by some of the items that we have been very specific to call out. But as we mentioned on slide 12, we reorganized and consolidated our consumer lending businesses. There will be a lot of savings related to that. We are combining many of our staff functions and technology groups. And we can do that now that we are almost done with the merger. We do believe that there are some cyclically high mortgage costs that are going to roll off. So it is a combination of a lot of different things, but it is a result of a lot of hard work and effort on the part of the team.

MIKE MAYO: Should we characterize this as a second look at expenses now that the merger integration is complete? Is this a second look at the old Wachovia/First Union merger? How would you describe it?

JOHN STUMPF: I would describe it as being more reflective of what is going on from an economic standpoint, from a regulatory standpoint. We made a lot of really thoughtful decisions about how we were going to be organized in a different environment in the first quarter of 2009. And we made a lot of success. We have had a lot of success in integrating the platform.

As you'll recall, about a year ago, we stepped back and said, well, how do we want the Company to look going forward and we are making some changes reflective of what is going on in the environment right now. I think it is really important that we continue to improve. This isn't just about reducing expenses this year and hoping for the best. It is about a focus on providing more value to our customers. That is the primary driver of our expense initiatives, how can we drive more value to our customers and be more efficient.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM SECURITIES: I wanted to ask you a couple questions. One is on the efficiency ratio, taking your $11 billion, which is very clear and I like the way you're putting that out there, but the business will move up and down. Hopefully revenues, as we saw this quarter, are starting to see some improvement. So if you look at the efficiency ratio coming into the year, we were kind of in the mid-60%s, 63% to 64%. As we got through the third quarter, it improved to 60%. In the fourth quarter, it ticked up about 1%.

If I take the $11 billion and just kind of put it on the income statement, that actually brings our efficiency ratio down below 55%. Is that kind of the goal we are looking at? I'm just trying to equate it so we can move from just the $11 billion into somewhat of an efficiency target as well.

TIM SLOAN: Marty, it's a fair question, but candidly we have not set a specific efficiency goal. We've set a run rate. So the efficiency is going to be whatever it is going to be based upon where our revenues are going to be in the fourth quarter. But clearly, we think that a 60% rate is too high.

MARTY MOSBY: And so the seasonality of the revenues this quarter given that mortgage always has a strong fourth quarter doesn't really over -- I just wanted to make sure we weren't overemphasizing that number. It could get down to 53%. Something like that would be doable given the assumptions we have.

TIM SLOAN: I don't know if 53% or 54% is doable. I think historically if you look at the Company, we have been down in that range. The Company has changed a little bit, but, again, we haven't set a specific efficiency goal target. We are focused on that $11 billion.

MARTY MOSBY: I had one other question that I wanted to kind of see if you could walk through in the sense of the mortgage putbacks. It is really kind of a three layered question. I hate to throw this at you, but one is are the primary reasons for the deficiencies, can you kind of highlight why? We are dealing with agencies, which was a very regulated process, but yet we are still seeing that they can throw back at us these deficient loans or delinquent loans because of paperwork and deficiency in the process. Have those issues changed at all? So did you see a year ago different issues than we are seeing today or are they about the same?

And then lastly, what would be your guess in the sense of what percent of the originations we did? To me, this is the critical assumption would have the deficiencies that are out there. So if we take a sample of 1000 loans, would we see that the deficiencies have been getting back to us, was it 30%, was it 40% of the loans? What is kind of the range that you think the loans that were originated would have in the sense of deficiencies?

TIM SLOAN: So a lot of questions there, Marty, which I appreciate.

MARTY MOSBY: I'm sorry.

TIM SLOAN: That's okay, that's okay. I think that -- when you think about kind of the context of the repurchase demands that we are seeing, there isn't anything really new. I think that what we have seen is a steady review by Freddie Mac and then Fannie Mae during this year kind of accelerated its view, but the issues are really not that different. And from our perspective, as we look at our portfolio, it has much more to do with vintage than anything. And we are slowly but surely kind of working our way through the vintages. The repurchases were pretty flat, our losses were down for the quarter.

In terms of the answer to your bigger question, what I would like to do on that one, Marty, is just punt and have our IR folks get with our mortgage folks and back to you because they are going to provide you with a better answer than I am going to.

MARTY MOSBY: And I just think that percentage, if we could look at some sample size, would give us some subset that we are dealing with that kind of puts an upper bound, which, in my mind, we have to be approaching after the agencies have gone through two and three years of looking at this stuff. Unless they are coming up with new stuff, eventually they are going to run out and it seems like we are, at some point here, going to approach that number.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I look forward to getting to that point too.

JOHN STUMPF: The biggest thing in 2006 to '08 was stated income. I mean that was -- and of course, that has all changed since 2008. So we will get back to you on that.

MARTY MOSBY: Okay, thank you so much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I just wanted to ask about the mortgage bank. You had obviously great revenue numbers this quarter, particularly on the production side and great production numbers for this quarter. Usually that tends to follow through into good revenues in Q4. Can you talk a little bit about the margin on production and anything else that might be impacting the mortgage bank as we look at first quarter?

TIM SLOAN: I think that the margin was up from the third quarter. It was up to 190 basis points from about 134 in the third quarter. And that is something that you see typically in periods of increased demand. And as we mentioned, we have taken share. So that is good. I don't know where the margin is going to be in the first quarter. Clearly 190 is very attractive. We hope that it continues to be in that range. It might and might not.

JOHN STUMPF: Just a comment about the mortgage business, we like the mortgage business. We like it -- would people put their phones on mute please? Thank you. And we have been taking share in that business. For two-thirds of Americans, it is the most significant financial asset they will have. If you are going to be in the consumer business, we believe you have to be good at the mortgage business. It's a balanced business, so again I can't predict where volumes and originations are going to go, but we believe this is a strong business for our Company and we like it.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. A couple questions on the investment bank. The marketshare gains that you are seeing in the investment bank, could you just -- I mean is that due to any one particular activity or segment? If you could just give us a little color about that.

JOHN STUMPF: No, it's not, Nancy. I think it is just reflective of the fact that it is a different competitive environment, number one. Number two, we have many more relationships than we had a few years ago. And we have got a great team and so they are out providing advice and service to those relationships, but it was really pretty broad-based. It is not for one specific product or trading activity or industry. It is really reflective of the fact that -- we think this is a good business for us and we think we can continue to grow it, but we are going to grow it in our way that is very focused on risk and very focused on providing the right product and service to the client.

It is mostly about us doing more with existing customers. We have already had a relationship. We have already lent the money. We've already did something with them and now, because we have 15,000 brokers that are able to help sell a debt issuance or an equity offering and as Tim mentioned, we have great folks who play team ball.

NANCY BUSH: My add-on or my second question would be just an add-on to that. You guys clearly have benefited in quarters like this quarter from not being identified as a capital market/investment banking company. And I guess my question would be how big a marketshare do you actually ever want to have or how big do you want the investment bank to be in relation to the rest of the Company to continue that premium I think you're getting for not being identified as an investment bank?

JOHN STUMPF: So Nancy, here is how I think about that. I think -- first of all, we love the capability of our people, but we think of investment banking or capital markets as another product, another area we have in our quiver. So we sit down with medium-sized companies and large companies. This is a product and a service that we have that we believe can help them succeed financially. If they choose us for that, that is terrific. If they choose us to do their stock transfer business or treasury management instead of that, that is also terrific. I am not driven by league tables around here. I am driven by conference room tables. I want to see us sitting around a table helping customers.

So if we grow because we are helping customers, terrific. If we don't grow because their business isn't there or we are getting paid a different way, that is also terrific. And that is where I think we are fundamentally different. We don't have a standalone head of corporate finance that reports to me that has a league table goal. I could care less about that. It is a product that reports into our overall commercial business.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. John, I'd like --

JOHN STUMPF: Very good people. They do terrific work. I can't tell you how excited I am about the kind of -- the way they play team ball work around here.

NANCY BUSH: John, I'd like to get your perspective on one other thing as well. Jamie Dimon said a few days ago that, given the stringency of this stress test, the CCAR, the 13% unemployment, etc., etc., that he expected after you get the results of that and he implied that he does not think there would be capital raising needed on the part of major American banks as a result and he hoped that that would be the definitive word on capital. Do you expect that -- do you have that same expectation?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I don't know other banks as well as he knows other banks. I know this Company and we surely believe we are in a good spot. But I would make a general comment. What we have been through the last three years in the US, there has been a lot of capital grown organically and just through earnings and a lot of capital was raised. The industry is far stronger than it has been in the past and it takes strong banks and a strong financial system to support a growing economy. This country is in a much better position than a lot of our European counterparts because of the strength of the banks. So I don't know what the stress tests are going to show for each institution. I don't have a vision of that. But I know, in our case, I don't worry a lot about our capital to support growth for us.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, how are you? I had a couple questions. One is on the excess liquidity that you have. Can you just give us what number you calculate that to be?

TIM SLOAN: We don't really calculate an excess liquidity number at the Company. I think that it ebbs and flows based upon deposit growth and opportunities we see in terms of loan growth and acquisitions and investing the securities portfolio. So I mean I wish I could give you a specific answer, but that is not the way we think about it.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, so I guess -- the reason I asked that question is I am thinking about your firepower for investing in loans going forward. Do you feel like that rate of change is decelerating or accelerating?

TIM SLOAN: I think it is about the same. As we talked about, we got a tremendous amount of deposit growth in the third quarter. We got a lot of deposit growth in the fourth quarter. When you think about it, we are up $30 billion in one quarter. Turn the clock back and how that would feel two or three years ago, but we have got more than enough dry powder to take advantage of the organic growth that we are seeing from our customers, which is strong, as well as look at any acquisitions. But as John said, we are going to look at a lot of acquisitions. We may make none of them, we may make a lot, but we feel good about where we are from a liquidity standpoint.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks. Can you just give us a sense of what your hurdle rates are for the kind of loans you are seeing? You mentioned earlier in the call that you have been seeing a lot of opportunities. You are being selective. Can you just give us a sense as to whether or not your hurdle rates have changed or what they are for the C&I loan book for example?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I would rather not be specific about what are hurdle rates because if we are in a competitive situation then our competitors might know what we are trying to solve for. But I can tell you, as we looked at the portfolios that we purchased today, those portfolios have been higher quality portfolios and the yields have been consistent with our existing commercial real estate portfolio. We really don't -- we don't have a specific hurdle rate that we would necessarily apply to every portfolio or every business because the risks in those businesses and portfolios can be different. You have got to do it kind of deal by deal, opportunity by opportunity just like when you underwrite a new loan that you look at the risk to that existing customer.

JOHN STUMPF: And also, Betsy, we bring other things -- we bring -- when we sit down with a potential seller, we also want to get paid for the trust these folks have in us that we will complete the deal and that we have the capacity to complete a deal and that we don't re-trade it. So these are all -- these all add into the mix and in some cases, we are not even the highest bidder and we get deals.

BETSY GRASECK: Sure, okay. And then lastly on C&I, the average was up nicely around 4.5%, 4.6% Q on Q. The end-of-period was up a little bit less, just under 2%. So I guess -- and that is in an environment based on the [H8] data that was showing accelerating C&I EOP into the end of the quarter. So did you see comps just kind of heating up and you are backing off or opportunity just wasn't as great? Can you just explain why the EOP is so different?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I think the important thing is to appreciate that you shouldn't get too focused on what happens quarter to quarter because you can have a lot of activity that happens over a quarter. I would not be concerned about our ability to grow commercial loans at all.

BETSY GRASECK: Was there a reason why you pulled back a little bit relative to what we saw from the H8? Was it a function of --?

JOHN STUMPF: No, no, no, we didn't necessarily pull back. A lot of it can just be timing. We have a bunch of loans and transactions you are working on that you think might close toward the end of the year and they don't. They close in the first part of the next year or the next quarter and there is also some seasonality here also.

BETSY GRASECK: So your average growth rates are better for forecasting you think then EOP?

TIM SLOAN: Yes.

BETSY GRASECK: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thanks, good morning. Most of my questions have been answered, but I just wanted to follow up on the last one about loan growth. If I look at your end-of-period loans and exclude the $5.6 billion in reclassifications and then the $3.6 billion in purchased Irish bank loans, I have the quarter-on-quarter loan balance as essentially flat, which suggests that your organic growth is essentially offsetting your portfolio, your run-off portfolio decline. Is that a fair way to think about where you are right now or is that understating what is going on?

JOHN STUMPF: I think it understates what is going on. The important thing from our perspective, Fred, is that we have got the ability to grow loans in various loan types, as well as make acquisitions and depending upon the timing in a quarter or any given quarter, some might be growing faster than others. And I really think you have got to think about it as a total of all of them. And I wouldn't look at loan growth that we had from acquisitions as being a bad thing. That is just part of the opportunities that we have to grow. And only a couple billion of it showed up in the fourth quarter. So you can't look at all of the purchase -- some of that was in the third quarter. So there was actual growth in the fourth quarter.

FRED CANNON: Okay, great. Thanks, John. Just one more, Tim. Just looking at the yield on the -- you probably already covered this. The yield on the security portfolio has come down fairly significantly over the last year and even in the quarter on quarter. Is that just inherent in the flat yield curve environment and just in terms of the opportunities to invest in securities is inherently lower yielding is just what you face right now?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, no, I think that is right. I think the rate of decline has slowed just a little bit, but that is a very fair characterization, which again is why we are focusing on net interest income as opposed to just the yield.

FRED CANNON: Great. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, guys. Just one last follow-up on the drivers to the growth on the C&I side. Do you have any color on kind of the relative strength for the different segments, be it kind of large corporate or syndicated, middle market, small business and just is there any one area where you're seeing better opportunities to take share?

JOHN STUMPF: It is more on the type of business as opposed to the size. If you look at anybody or any company involved in commodities, they are doing quite well. Because commodity prices are up, there is lending opportunities there. Agriculture is pretty good, energy is pretty good. So if you -- and manufacturing actually is doing quite well. On the other side, if it is around residential real estate, not so good. So it depends more on that than on size.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And any comments just broadly on how pricing is holding in?

TIM SLOAN: Pricing continues to hold in pretty well during the quarter, Joe.

JOHN STUMPF: And think of our pricing -- we price at the relationship level. So it is not only the price on the loan; it is the price on the treasury business and the 401(k) business and the stock transfer business and a whole bunch of other things. So we think of it probably a little differently than a lot of other companies.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. Makes sense. Thanks so much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. And thank you all for joining us. Again, we are proud of what our team did in the fourth quarter of 2011 and we are excited about 2012. Talk to you next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, that does conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c26 : Product Safety | crecal : Product Recalls | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020120131e81h001me
  


 HD
 Q3  2011 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,896 words
   PD
17 October 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Regina and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call.

   TD
All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speaker's remarks there will be a question and answer session. (Operator Instructions).

Please note that today's coal is being recorded. I would now like to turn the call over to Jim Rowe.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Regina. Good morning everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and our CFO, Tim Sloan, will review third-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call that are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing our earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, Jim. Good morning and thanks for joining us today. We produced record results in the third quarter despite a choppy economic environment, as we continued to execute Wells Fargo's diversified business model, which has guided us for decades.

Our diversified businesses generated record net income of $4.1 billion in the third quarter, an increase of 21% from a year ago and a record EPS of $0.72, an increase of 20% from a year ago.

Our focus on meeting our customers' financial needs led to robust deposit growth and our strongest quarterly loan growth since our merger with Wachovia almost 3 years ago. We also benefited this quarter from lower expenses and continued improvement in credit quality.

As the economic environment and recovery remains uneven, Wells Fargo has not wavered from our commitment to do all we can to help our customers and the overall economy. For example, we remain committed to helping homeowners stay in their homes. Since 2009 we have hosted 40 Preservation Workshops, opened 27 Home Preservation Centers, initiated over 716,000 active trial or completed mortgage modifications.

Within our Pick-a-Pay portfolio alone we have forgiven over $4 billion of principal since we acquired this portfolio from Wachovia and modified approximately one-third of our total Pick-a-Pay loans as we strive to give customers an affordable, sustainable payment.

We are also lending, providing companies with funds to invest for growth and job creation. As the number one small business lender for nine consecutive years, we are committed to helping small businesses succeed by actively lending. During the first three quarters of this year we made over $10 billion in new loan commitments to our small-business customers, an 8% increase from a year ago.

We are also the number one lender to middle sized companies and we have grown loans to middle market commercial customers for 14 straight months. And we continue to lend throughout our businesses, both commercial and consumer, with our core loan portfolio growing by $13.5 billion in the third quarter alone.

In addition to serving the financial needs of our business and individual customers every day, we also strengthen our communities in many other ways. Wells Fargo employs one in every 500 Americans. And last year we contributed $219 million to 19,000 nonprofits across the US, making us America's third most generous cash donor according to the Chronicle of Philanthropy.

Our team members throughout the country are active volunteers in the communities where they live and work, volunteering a total of over 900,000 hours during the first nine months of this year alone. We know that with each community success comes our success.

I also want to highlight a very important milestone that occurred this past weekend. We completed our last retail banking state conversion, North Carolina. With all our banking stores in the US operating under the Wells Fargo brand, I believe we now have the best leadership team, the best products and services and the best distribution system we have ever had at Wells Fargo.

Our successful integration reflects an incredible effort made by our entire team. Since we first started working to integrate Wachovia almost three years ago, we have converted over 3,000 Wachovia retail banking stores and more than 38 million customer accounts, including mortgage, deposits, trust, brokerage and credit cards onto one common platform.

While the effort required to convert Wachovia stores and millions of accounts was tremendous, the real measure of success will be our ability to retain and grow customer relationships in the East and throughout our franchise going forward as one Wells Fargo.

A cornerstone of those relationships and one of the most valuable parts of our franchise is our ability to attract and retain core deposits. Since the merger with Wachovia we have grown checking and savings accounts by -- deposits by $185 billion. That is just in three years.

We achieved this growth through building relationships with customers, not pricing. In fact, our average deposit costs were only 25 basis points in the third quarter.

So with the Wachovia integration nearing successful completion we remain focused on Wells Fargo's time-tested formula for success, an unwavering focus on helping our customers succeed financially. By focusing on our opportunities to better serve our customers and grow our businesses, Wells Fargo has never been better positioned for future growth.

Let me know turn this over to Tim for more detail on our financial results.

TIM SLOAN, SVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, John, and good morning everyone. My remarks, which will take approximately 20 minutes, will follow the presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on page 2. John and I will then take your questions.

As John highlighted, we had record earnings of $4.1 billion in the third quarter, up 3% from the second quarter and 21% from a year ago. And we achieved record EPS of $0.72, also up 3% from last quarter and 20% from a year ago.

During a continued period of economic volatility, our diversified model has performed for our shareholders with four consecutive quarters of earning asset growth and seven consecutive quarters of EPS growth. It is important to note that while our total revenue was down $758 million compared with the second quarter, half of this decline was from items that are relatively neutral to the bottom line, lower deferred compensation plan investment results and seasonally lower insurance, which have offsets and expenses. And the rest of the decline is due to lower equity gains.

Our pretax, pre-provision profit increased slightly in the quarter to $8 billion. Our ROA remained strong at 1.26% and our ROE was 11.86%, up almost 100 basis points from a year ago. These results generated strong internal capital growth, producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III capital proposals of 7.4%.

We remained focused on meeting the required capital levels once Basel III is finalized, while returning capital to our shareholders through dividends and share buybacks.

On page 3 we highlight our diversified business model. Our results this quarter and the business momentum we see ahead derive from our basic banking strategy and the diversity of our businesses. This is a major differentiator for Wells Fargo. In the third quarter we remain balanced between consumer and commercial loans and fee and spread income and our sources of fee income were broadly diversified.

Each quarter is different in terms of which customer segments or businesses drive results, but as we have demonstrated through many different economic environments, our business model provides us with a tested ability to perform over time and through cycles. It is also important to note that our performance has not come at the expense of risk discipline, as we believe we maintain one of the lowest risk profiles in our industry.

Let me take a minute upfront to highlight some of the key business drivers this quarter, and then I will follow up with more detail later in my remarks. Starting with the balance sheet. We generated strong loan growth this quarter with our core loan portfolio up $13.5 billion or 2% from the second quarter, which excludes the expected $5.3 billion runoff from the liquidating portfolio. By staying consistent and serving customers when the market was soft, we are now benefiting from the relationships that we developed over the last few years.

We also actively deployed some of our liquidity this quarter with our securities portfolio increasing $20.9 billion, as we increased purchase activity. We also generated exceptionally strong deposit growth with balances up $41.8 billion, driven by a flight to quality and new account growth. This strong deposit growth was the primary driver behind the decline in the NIM this quarter, accounting for about 70% of the change from the second quarter, but was slightly positive to net interest income.

We also lowered our other funding costs by reducing long-term debt by $9.7 billion, and we called $5.8 billion of high-cost trust preferred securities in the third quarter, which were redeemed earlier this month. This redemption will benefit net interest income and NIM starting in the fourth quarter.

Let me now turn to the income statement. Net interest income was down $136 million as balance sheet repricing and lower variable income was partially offset by growth in loans, securities and the mortgage warehouse, as well as one extra day in the quarter. Turning to the fee side, we had revenue growth in many of our businesses including an increase of over $200 million in mortgage banking.

If you isolate our revenue items that are market sensitive, trading, debt and equity gains, these three items again generated positive results, $202 million of revenue this quarter.

The linked-quarter decline in market sensitive revenue of $808 million was due to four factors. First, as I have mentioned, equity gains declined $380 million from very strong second-quarter equity investment business results.

Second, trading losses included a $234 million linked-quarter decline in deferred compensation plan investment results, which reduced employee benefits expense by approximately the same amount, so no overall impact to the bottom line.

Third, a loss and a gain on resolving two legacy Wachovia positions partially offset one another, but reduced market sensitive revenue by $106 million. And, finally, customer-driven trading results were down $108 million from the second quarter on weaker market conditions.

Noninterest expense declined $798 million from the second quarter, which included the $235 million reduction from deferred compensation. The linked-quarter decline was also driven by $108 million in lower merger integration expenses and $230 million in lower operating losses reflecting lower litigation accruals.

Let me now cover our results in more detail. As shown on page 6, period end loans were up $8.2 billion from the second quarter, reflecting our commitment to our commercial and retail customers through this period of economic uncertainty. Most of this growth came near the end of the quarter and, therefore, our average loans were up just $3.3 billion.

Loan growth was once again driven by our commercial portfolio, which grew $9.1 billion or 3% from the second quarter and was diverse across our commercial businesses. This growth also reflects our ability to capitalize on the opportunities generated in the business environment, including the purchase of $1.1 billion in loans from the Bank of Ireland, which were all US-based and largely all commercial real estate.

Excluding the runoff of $4.5 billion of liquidated consumer loans, core consumer loans grew $3.5 billion. Loans grew in a number of consumer portfolios including mortgage, core auto, credit card and private student lending. The runoff of the liquidating portfolio continued as expected down $5.3 billion from the second quarter and down $74 billion or 39% since the Wachovia merger.

As I mentioned earlier, deposit growth was exceptionally strong this quarter, driven by both the flight to quality and new account growth. Average core deposits were up $29.4 billion from the second quarter and up $64.9 billion or 8% from a year ago, and were 111% of average loans.

Average core checking and savings deposits were $769 billion, up 12% from a year ago, and were 92% of average core deposits.

Consumer checking accounts were up 5.6% from a year ago, and we experienced strong growth throughout our markets, including 7% growth in California and 9.8% growth in North Carolina.

We continue to be effective in lowering funding costs with average deposit costs declining to 25 basis points, down 3 basis points from the second quarter and 10 basis points from a year ago, evidence that we still have the ability to reprice deposits even in this low rate environment.

This strong deposit growth will benefit Wells Fargo over time as we grow our relationship with new customers and use these deposits to fund future loan and securities growth. But as I mentioned earlier, this growth was dilutive to NIM this quarter, which is why we have always said we don't manage to the NIM. Our goal is to generate more business from our existing customers and grow our customer base, and that may increase or decrease NIM in any given quarter.

Instead, we manage our business with a focus on net interest income and this is how we return value to our shareholders. Our net interest income declined $137 million from the second quarter. Let me highlight the drivers on page 8.

First, lower income from balance sheet repricing was partially offset by growth in loans, securities and the mortgage warehouse. And while the expected runoff of our liquidating loans, which had a weighted average yield of 5.61%, puts downward pressure on net interest income, these loans generally have higher charge-offs and cost more to service.

Second, we had lower income from variable sources, including loan prepayments and resolutions. These factors were partially offset by the benefit of an extra day in the quarter.

Let me continue the discussion of net interest income on page 9. NIM and net interest income do not necessarily move in sync, and this quarter was a great example of that. The deposit growth we had this quarter actually had a small positive impact to net interest income of $13 million, but was diluted -- but diluted our NIM by 12 basis points.

Growing net interest income remains our focus and the size and mix of earning assets are keys to achieving that goal. The available for sale portfolio has grown by over $39 billion in the last two quarters and loans outstanding have grown nearly $9 billion despite the continued runoff of the liquidating portfolio. The mortgage warehouse grew by $11.5 billion in the third quarter, benefiting from the current refi wave.

While earning asset growth is the primary driver of net interest income growth, our liability mix also influences our net interest income trends. The benefit from the redemption of $5.8 billion of TRuPS will begin in the fourth quarter, and the long-term debt outstanding was down $9.7 billion in the third quarter, with an additional $9 billion maturing in the fourth quarter.

Obviously, three of the biggest drivers of net interest income over time are the size and mix of our securities and loan portfolios and our funding costs. Over the course of 2011 these have all moved in the right direction, and we feel confident that that trend will continue.

Noninterest income was down $622 million from the second quarter, driven by the $808 million linked-quarter decline in market sensitive revenue that I highlighted earlier. Trust and investment fees declined $158 million from the second quarter on lower brokerage transaction activity and weaker investment banking.

We generated linked-quarter growth in deposit service charges, card fees, other fees, including charges and fees on loans, mortgage banking and operating leases. Mortgage banking revenue was up $214 million or 13% from the second quarter.

Originations increased $25 billion or 39% from the second quarter, and application volume rose $60 billion or 55% during the quarter. The unclosed mortgage pipeline increased $33 billion to $84 billion at the end of the quarter. This is one of the largest pipelines we have had since the merger.

As it relates to revenue, it is important to note that we fair value our interest rate locks at the time of commitment, but we recognize the majority of our gain at the time of funding. Therefore, the increase in applications in the third quarter should benefit fourth-quarter revenue.

As a reminder, last quarter we provided an update on the impact of federal reserve rules regarding debit interchange fees. Our estimate is unchanged. And starting in the fourth quarter we estimate these lower fees will reduce earnings by approximately $250 million quarterly after-tax before any offsets. We expect to recapture at least half of this over time through volume and product changes.

Non-interest expense declined $798 million or 6% from the second quarter. The large linked-quarter decline was driven by a few significant items -- a $384 million decline in employee benefit expense. This is where the $235 million decline in deferred compensation is reflected, which was an offset in trading revenue.

Merger integration costs were $376 million, down $108 million from the second quarter. We had $198 million of operating losses, down $230 million driven by lower litigation accruals. We had a $107 million decline in insurance expenses due to seasonally lower crop insurance, which also reduced insurance revenues.

While we had strong reductions in expenses this quarter, as we have said previously, noninterest expense trends will vary from quarter to quarter, but we are still targeting non-interest expense of $11 billion in the fourth quarter of 2012.

For example, in the fourth quarter of this year we expect expenses to be higher than the third quarter, driven by higher mortgage expenses as we add team members to capture increased revenue opportunities driven by refinance activity. We also expect higher merger integration costs and we typically have seasonally higher fourth-quarter expenses in a number of areas.

Also, as we said last quarter when we provided our expense target, we will continue to invest in our businesses and add team members where appropriate. We expect to continue to have positive operating leverage and recognize savings as Project Compass is executed over the next five quarters.

Turning briefly to our segment results, starting on page 13, Community Banking earned $2.3 billion, up 11% from the second quarter, driven by stronger mortgage banking revenue. Sales trends remain strong. Core product sales in the West were $8.8 million, up 15% from the prior year, and core product sales in the East continued to grow by double digits.

Retail Banking cross-sell continued to grow to a record of 5.91 products per household, up from 5.68 a year ago. Cross-sell in the East were 5.39, up from 5.10 a year ago. The majority of our Retail Banking markets in the East were already converted by the third quarter, which helped to accelerate cross-sell growth in these markets. The East is also benefiting from more than 1,000 incremental platform banker FTEs added over the past year, a 10% increase.

Wholesale Banking earned $1.8 billion, down 6% from the second quarter, driven by a 9% decline in revenue. The decline in revenue was driven by lower capital markets, trading and resolution income and seasonally lower insurance. However, most other businesses grew revenue, such as Commercial Banking, Government Banking, Capital Finance, Asset Backed Finance and international.

Wholesale Banking continued to generate strong broad-based loan growth from both new and existing customers, with average loans up 4% from the second quarter. This growth occurred in almost all portfolios, including Commercial Banking, International, Commercial Real Estate, Capital Finance, Asset Backed Finance, Government Banking and Corporate Banking.

Average core deposits increased $19 billion from the second quarter, up 10%, our largest quarterly increase since the merger with Wachovia. This growth reflects a combination of a flight to quality and the fact that our commercial customers are holding more liquidity.

Wealth brokers in retirement earned $291 million, down 13% from the second quarter, driven by lower securities gains and reduced brokerage transaction revenue, reflecting the lower market activity, while credit quality continued to improve, driving loan losses lower.

Average loans were stable from the second quarter with growth in brokerage originated loans. Average core deposits increased $7.4 billion, up 6% from the second quarter, reflecting both a flight to quality and our continued success in attracting client assets, including deposits.

Managed account asset net flows remained strong despite market volatility. Asset levels were down 9% from the second quarter, reflecting the impact of the market decline. Our continued focus on meeting our customers' financial needs is reflected in achieving an average cross-sell ratio of 10 products per [WBR] household.

Our credit quality continued to improve as shown on page 17. We are very pleased with how our loan portfolios are performing. Charge-offs declined for the seventh consecutive quarter, down $227 million from the second quarter, 52% below the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009. While we continued to see positive trends in credit performance, the rate of improvement moderated at some portfolios in the quarter, as expected at this point in the credit cycle.

Provision expense was $1.8 billion, down $27 million from the second quarter, including an $800 million reserve release. Absent significant deterioration in the economy, we expect future reserve releases.

Other credit metrics showed continued improvement also. Nonperforming assets were down $1.1 billion from the second quarter, reflecting lower inflows of commercial nonaccrual loans. Early-stage delinquency balances were down modestly while delinquency rates were stable.

The past few quarters I have discussed the quality of our mortgage servicing portfolio and why we believe it is among the best in the industry, so I won't go into a lot of detail here. But since the risks associated with mortgage servicing are still important to investors, let me highlight just a few key items starting on page 19.

The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio, or 69%, is service for the agencies, and only 6% are private securitizations where we originated the loans.

Reflecting the quality of our portfolio, our delinquency and foreclosure rate is over 400 basis points lower than the industry average, excluding Wells Fargo, based on the most recent publicly available data. Wells Fargo's total delinquency and foreclosure rate was 7.63% in the third quarter, down from a peak of 8.96% in the fourth quarter, but up modestly from the second quarter, due to seasonality.

Losses on repurchases were up $123 million in the quarter, but total demands outstanding were down in both number and balances for the fifth consecutive quarter, and down approximately 50% from the third quarter of last year. We added $390 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter, up $148 million from the second quarter, primarily due to an increase in demands from Fannie Mae on 2006 through 2008 vintage loans. Demands from Freddie Mac continue to be consistent with our expectations.

As shown on page 21, our strong internal capital generation continued and capital ratios grew. Tier 1 common equity ratio increased to 9.35%, up 20 basis points from the second quarter and up 134 basis points from a year ago. Our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III proposals grew to 7.4% this quarter.

$5.8 billion of trust preferreds were redeemed earlier this month with a weighted average coupon of 8.45%. This redemption reduced our Tier 1 capital ratio in the third quarter, but the benefit to net interest income and NIM will begin in the fourth quarter.

We repurchased 22 million shares in the third quarter and an additional estimated 6 million shares through a forward repurchase transaction that we will settle in the fourth quarter of 2011. We plan to continue to repurchase shares in the fourth quarter, pursuant to our capital plan.

In summary, our diversified business model continued to produce record results this quarter, with earnings up 21% from a year ago. In the quarter we saw continued growth in earning assets, loans, securities, deposits and capital. Many individual businesses, both consumer and commercial, generated revenue and loan growth.

By focusing on meeting our customers' financial needs we continued to generate very strong deposit growth and had the largest linked-quarter increase in loans in eleven quarters. And based on current business trends we expect loan growth to continue.

We remain focused on our efforts targeting $11 billion in quarterly noninterest expense by the fourth quarter of 2012. However, next quarter we expect higher expenses driven by strong mortgage origination volumes, which will also benefit revenue, higher merger expenses and typical fourth-quarter seasonality.

During the first nine months of this year we have grown our securities portfolio by $35 billion in loans. Excluding the expected runoff, we are up by $20 billion. Deposits have increased $47 billion, long-term debt is down $24 billion, and we have redeemed $9 billion of TRuPS. Clearly we have positioned our balance sheet very well for growth.

With the completion of the conversion of Wachovia Bank banking stores this weekend, we are very optimistic about the growth opportunities we have throughout our Company operating as one Wells Fargo.

I will now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John McDonald, Sanford C. Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Tim, a question on the net interest income and the margin. So first, I guess, of the 17 basis point drop you mentioned 12 of it due to deposits. What were the other 5, what you would you say that was driven by?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, John, it was a mix across a number of factors. None of them really stood out. It was a 5 basis point decline, which really wasn't that significant.

JOHN MCDONALD: Can you give us any feel for how much benefit you expect to get from the TRuPS retirement?

TIM SLOAN: Well, just at the margin, John, you can take the 845 basis points and subtract it from our marginal cost of funds, which this quarter was 25 basis points. And then you can annualize that, so it is pretty significant. It is over $200 million, I think, after tax a year.

JOHN MCDONALD: Then in terms of additional TRuPS, could you remind us what you have left, and if some of that is still something that you would consider calling?

TIM SLOAN: Well, John, we've got to move forward with our capital plan for next year. And we've got a plan in terms of calling the TRuPS, but in terms of specifically which TRuPS we will call and when we are going to call, I would prefer not to be specific about that right now.

But as we did this quarter, we are going to continue to be as aggressive as we can be in redeeming TRuPS pursuant to their terms as quickly as we can, given the cost of those TRuPS and the fact that they are not additive to capital any longer.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then just back on the margin and the $42 billion of deposit inflow and that getting invested into low-yielding securities, what kind of stuff are you investing this deposit flow into, and where can we look on the balance sheet to see these growing low-yielding asset accounts?

TIM SLOAN: Well, John, I didn't say they're going into low-yielding. I think they're going into securities -- first, we want them to go into loans, right? And, again, we were very pleased with the loan growth that we had in the second quarter, and we feel poised for continued loan growth in the fourth quarter.

As it relates to the types of securities, we go through our standard quarterly process. We look at what we think provides a good risk return, but it was a mix from shorter term, kind of high-quality securities, all the way to medium-term as well as longer-term securities. So it is a mix. There wasn't anything in particular; it is just across all the categories in the statement.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: John, maybe I can just give you my sense. The way I think about the NIM is, as Tim mentioned, we don't run the Company around the NIM; we never have. We really run it around trying to add long-term shareholder value. And we think we can do that best by serving individuals and companies completely and deeply. And the things that we can manage, like loan growth and deposit growth and more customers and deeper relationships, we are doing those sorts of things.

Because of the unusual rate environment today, some of that you don't get paid for right away. And we are making investments in -- we had best loan growth we have had in, frankly, since the merger. And when we look at securities we look at safety, quality. We look at the duration and all those things. And because of our strong deposit growth we still are a very liquid company, but we continue to make investments as we see opportunistic opportunities.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks, John. And one quick follow-up, just on capital return. John, maybe you could comment on this. What is your hope in terms of next year's capital return in terms of buybacks and dividends? Do you hope to do more than you did this year in buybacks and dividends? And do you know the rules yet that the Fed will hold you to in terms of 2012 capital distributions?

JOHN STUMPF: The answer is I think, yes and no. So let me take the last question first. We don't know what the SIFI reserve or the buffer is going to be. We hope to hear sometime in the fourth quarter.

And you're right, we are -- we have the annual plan coming up soon -- our capital plan that we will discuss with our regulators. And we have stated publicly that -- I have stated publicly, and I think we have also, you have seen it in Tim's comments and other things that we written, that we want to return more capital to our shareholders.

And I don't want to get into specifics about -- because the plan is just being developed now, but I am confident that given where we are today in the absolute number, we are at 7.4% Tier 1 common, Basel to the third degree, and we are not that -- when you look at the risk profile of the Company it is not on -- we are not global. We are not -- we don't have a lot of the risks that others do.

And on top of that, we are generating just lots of internal capital. So you put all that together, and that is why I just don't worry about that. And I want to get as much back to shareholders as fast as we can. And dividends are an important part of that, let me just say that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: You mentioned, Tim, much of the loan growth came late in the quarter. I was wondering if you could talk about how customers' sentiment evolved over the quarter, and if you are seeing more confidence there recently? And, also, maybe comment on the risk-adjusted return opportunities you are seeing in the CRE area right now and competitive environment as well.

TIM SLOAN: It seems like a long time ago, but there was a lot of volatility in the third quarter. If you remember, some of the things we watched on television in late July and then, obviously, there was a lot of concern about what -- and there still is -- about what is going on in Europe.

But I think generally when you look at our customer base, customer sentiment is good. The economy continues to bump along a little bit, but customer sentiment is good. And as I said, and we will reiterate, we feel good about loan growth in the quarter. And I think one of the reasons why we feel good about it is that it is really broad-based. As I mentioned, gave some examples in terms of loan growth, both in our commercial -- or our wholesale and our consumer portfolios, that was seven, eight, nine businesses that are growing loans across the board. It is not concentrated anywhere. It is not one industry; it is not one geography. So we're feeling good about that.

And as it relates to CRE, I think that the fact that we stayed consistent in that business over this cycle, which was very difficult at times for the commercial real estate business, is really paying dividends right now. We are the largest commercial real estate lender in the country. There is lots of opportunities to help our existing customers to refinance their existing loans. As they buy new properties we can provide capital to them. And then also as the CMBS market continues to mature and refinance there are opportunities there. So, overall, the commercial real estate business and the risk-adjusted returns there are pretty attractive.

JOHN STUMPF: And also, Joe, as you noticed or you probably read, that we were able to buy some loans on an opportunistic basis from some international competitors that are getting out of the US market.

JOE MORFORD: Yes, that's great and helpful. I guess just one follow-up to John's question that the buyback was a bit less this quarter despite the recent drop in the stock over the period. I guess any comments on that as part of your overall capital deployment plan.

TIM SLOAN: That is a real fair question. I think that when you think about our capital plan you've got to think about it as being a very balanced plan. And it is true that we bought back fewer shares of stock in the third quarter than we did in the second, but on the other hand, we also retired some pretty high-cost TRuPS. And to reiterate, we continue, or we plan to continue to buy back shares this quarter.

Again, we have a very measured and balanced plan that we want to execute to, and we think by doing that it will create some dividends as we go into the next capital planning cycle.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, it sounds good. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Just a couple of follow-up questions on the NIM, and just looking for the average balance that you have on your supplement. Looking at things like commercial and industrial loans, which had deals come down pretty significantly, and I just wanted to understand how much of that was driven by just the repricing that you have within the C&I loan book because LIBOR came down or is that more net new borrowers coming on the balance sheet and you being competitive on pricing?

TIM SLOAN: I think it is -- Betsy, it wasn't any one specific category, but it was a combination of some one-timers that we had in the second quarter versus the third quarter. It was -- it also included some repricing of the existing book and then new loans on, but it wasn't really any one specific item.

BETSY GRASECK: And when we think about that loan yield going forward, a lot of that book is priced off of floating LIBOR, either one month, three months or what have you, is it pretty much repriced at this stage or is there more to do?

TIM SLOAN: Well, there is generally a little bit of a lag, so that we have seen LIBOR started to pick up a little bit this month, which should have a bit of a benefit. But there is about a one-month to two-month lag on average.

BETSY GRASECK: When you think about the TRuPS that you called in the quarter and third quarter, how much of an impact is that going to have on your NIM in fourth quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Off the top of my head, I don't know. Let us get back to you on that, Betsy. I would be guessing right now, but we will get back to you.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, and then, lastly on incremental loans that you are interested in buying from folks that are exiting portfolios, how much risk are you looking to take on to the balance sheet? Are you only going to be playing in the higher investment-grade type of securities or in loans or are you willing to go into securities or loans that might be a little bit more costly from a capital perspective?.

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think it is really going to be a function of, one, what is available. And then, two, we've got -- even though there is a lot of opportunity to buy securities and loans today, you've got to -- we've got to continue to be really measured and follow the risk discipline that we have had for years.

And so a long answer to your question, but the point is I think we are going to buy across the spectrum as long as we are comfortable with the risk-adjusted return. Sometimes the pricing is attractive at the high end and sometimes at the low end. There are a lot of securities and loans that are available today.

I think this is really reflective of what is strong about Wells Fargo, and that is this is a time in a cycle that because we had a risk discipline over the years in place, we've got the opportunity to be a buyer today.

JOHN STUMPF: Betsy, let me add to that. And I appreciate the question, because I want everybody -- I think you know us well enough. We are not -- we don't feel any sense of urgency to have to do something that does not make sense here. We are going -- we are looking for value, and the ones we bought in this last group happened to be the higher end and the more investment-grade, names that we knew. Many customers we already had something out to.

But even though revenue was challenged this quarter, I feel, and our team feels, no sense of improper urgency to do something that does not make sense for this Company. We just will not do that.

BETSY GRASECK: Would you prioritize growing the common Tier 1 ratio under Basel III or prioritizing earnings?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I don't know that -- first of all, I would say the number one priority is to develop more long-term profitable customer relationships. That is what we get up in the morning to do. And the result of that is we make money, and when you make money you grow your capital.

Again, when John asked the question about the Tier 1 common Basel III, we are already at 7.4%. I don't know what the buffer will be. As I said before, the bid and assets are between 1% and 2.5%. We are clearly on the low end or the -- to the left, if that makes it less risky. 7.4% is already 40 basis points over the minimum. And then our capital generation, we are putting tons of capital on the balance sheet every quarter now.

So I think it starts with relationships, from that over time you make money and then you build capital.

TIM SLOAN: And just to add to that, Betsy, I don't think it is an either/or for us right now. We can do both. We can go out and we can buy assets that are for sale with good quality customers that we have appropriately underwritten, and we can make money doing that and we can also grow capital. It is really not an either/or.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, NOMURA: I guess as we think about mortgage in the fourth quarter, it would seem like gain on sale is going to be very high, if not actually at record levels -- the percentage gain on sale for each loan.

Can you just -- is there any way to break apart how much of the expansion and gain on sale we have seen this cycle is cyclical because of low rates, capacity constraints in the industry, etc., and how much of it you think is secular given a more consolidated industry mainly of banks and hopefully more rational pricing?

TIM SLOAN: I wish I was smart enough to know the answer to that question; I just don't. I think what we are seeing is a very attractive mortgage market. We have worked long and hard to be the largest mortgage originator in the country, and we are well-positioned, we've got a great team. We are seeing a lot of good volume, as we mentioned, going into the fourth quarter. But in terms of what percent of the margin is related to the industry and what percent is related to capacity, I would really -- I don't know.

JOHN STUMPF: I would make this comment. Part of the reason that we are able to capture more share today is related to the fact that we don't have a lot of problems in our existing portfolio. I mean, 400 basis points less in terms of delinquencies and foreclosures, that is a lot. Especially when you service 9 million mortgages or so, that becomes a big, big number.

So we have continued to invest in systems and in people and in training and compliance and outreach. And even during the big refi booms we never lost our interest or hunger in serving the purchase money market. So what you are saying is right, there are good margins. We have got a great pipeline, and we are busy.

BRIAN FORAN: If I could ask a follow-up, I guess, on the bad side of the mortgage business right now, the -- on page 28 you show $16.5 billion of FHA insured guaranteed by the VA delinquent, but still accruing loans. I guess just in the spirit of things having put-backs and litigation risks having expanded further than most of us thought this cycle, is there any way contractually that those loans -- any part of those loans -- could become the responsibility of Wells Fargo?

TIM SLOAN: We have not seen any change in our relationship with the FHA/VA. When a loan goes 90 days delinquent, it is put back on our balance sheet, we work through it. That is what happened this quarter. It happens every quarter. And then once we work through it, they honor their guarantee. We haven't seen any change in that relationship at all.

BRIAN FORAN: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Erika Penala, Bank of AmericaMerrill Lynch.

ERIKA PENALA, ANALYST, BANK OF AMERICA MERRILL LYNCH: I understand that you don't manage to the margin. But given how the interest rate environment will be seemingly suboptimal for longer, and I understand that you have taken steps to redeploy some of your liquidity already in the third quarter, what would you have to see to be a little bit more aggressive in moving down your cash balances?

JOHN STUMPF: Erika, the first thing that -- the first call on liquidity, and I think Tim mentioned this, is to fund loans. When you think about it, this quarter we had $13.5 billion of core loan growth. That is a great quarter of loan growth. And that is because we are out serving customers. And I am not going to predict what is going to happen in the fourth quarter, but our people are busy and we are serving our retail household and the business households.

And then if -- and we are always looking at the market, and if we can get spreads that we think that are appropriate, recognizing that we are at record low levels. We are not any better at market timing, so we are careful and cautious as we do that.

If you look at our cash balances they are pretty much on top of where they were a quarter ago, even though we have made a fair amount of what we think high-quality shorter-term investments along the way.

You recognize one thing that we still don't know yet is the LCR, the liquidity coverage ratio and that is important also. So we are in a very balanced way moving forward here.

ERIKA PENALA: Do you have a sense from your conversations with Washington that there is a chance that the LCR in its final interpretation will likely get softened?

JOHN STUMPF: I don't -- I am not in the prediction business, especially when it comes to Washington. But I can tell you this, our team has been very active and responsive to the requests [that we get] from Washington and other places to help them understand our view and the calibration and what happened during previous times with previous companies and so forth, and what happened with deposit runoff and loan line takedowns during times of stress. So we think we have something to offer there.

ERIKA PENALA: Okay, and just one last follow-up question. I just wanted to ask one of Betsy's questions another way. I think a lot of investors were concerned about the C&I decline in terms of the yield. I understand there is a lot of puts and takes in this line item. But if you look at your pipeline of new originations, and you have told us that loan growth prospects are quite strong, and you look at what is set to renew, I guess, should we see or should we expect a similar quarterly decline next quarter aside from the movements in LIBOR?

TIM SLOAN: We are too early in the quarter to be able to have any specific -- or give you a real specific answer to that question. Because we are going to have loans that aren't even in the pipeline right now that are going to close toward the end of the year. I don't know the answer to your question. The point is I think from our perspective is that loan growth is real strong right now.

JOHN STUMPF: And think of it this way, Erika, a lot of loan growth we had in the third quarter didn't come until later in the quarter. We have some purchases that we have made that will close in the fourth quarter that have been announced. And a lot of what has happened in mortgage has not yet come through. So think of it in those terms.

ERIKA PENALA: Got it. Thanks for taking my questions.

OPERATOR: Todd Hagerman, Sterne Agee.

TODD HAGERMAN, ANALYST, STERNE AGEE: Tim and John, just going back to the capital question, I understand that, Tim, you mentioned you have very very balanced, very measured approach in terms of your capital plan. But the thing about the 2012 CCAR program and the Fed process, it appears that, number one, the Fed is taking a more active role in terms of determining the various scenarios for the program. Then, two, it appears that the Fed is also taking a more conservative view as it relates to their concerns surrounding systemic capital risk.

And as I look at your buyback, for example, and I listen to some of your competitors, how do you think about that 2012 program in terms of -- you mentioned the uncertainty in terms of the operating environment. You talk about the TRuPS potential. But how do we think about Wells Fargo being more or less aggressive with the plan going into 2012, given your capital generation and what appears to be a heightened concern on the part of the Fed with capital and buybacks?

JOHN STUMPF: Let me just give you a sense before Tim talks about the numbers. The best thing we can do, the most aggressive thing we could do, is serve our customers really, really well and produce great results and have a low risk profile for our Company. And then -- and have lots of capital generation internally.

We do all those things well. We can achieve the kinds of things our shareholders will want, i.e., returning capital to them as quickly as we can. And you now one of my biases is dividends. I don't know what we can -- well, add something to that, Tim.

TIM SLOAN: I think, Todd, we haven't seen any major change in terms of our relationship with the Fed, in terms of how they are looking at this next CCAR process versus a year ago. Again, I would step back and put this in a perspective. Think about what our balance sheet, what our earnings, what our capital level was a year ago at this time and then compare them to where we are today.

Losses are down, nonperforming is known down, credit has improved. We are generating a lot more earnings. And we have more liquidity and we have more capital to start with. So we don't go into this next CCAR process being pessimistic at all. We've got a great story to tell; we've got a great relationship. We are going to make a proposal, and we are looking forward to working with the Fed.

TODD HAGERMAN: That is actually very helpful. I appreciate that. If I could, John, just to follow up or a question just in terms of an update on the AG settlement with California in particular opting out, opting in. Just your latest thoughts in terms of the settlement process, how that may evolve as you currently see it?

JOHN STUMPF: There is nothing new to report. (multiple speakers).

TODD HAGERMAN: Positive, negative?

JOHN STUMPF: There is just -- if -- no, there is just -- there is nothing new to report.

TODD HAGERMAN: All right, thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Listen, just to follow-up on Brian's question a little bit on the mortgage banking side. The big announcement this quarter -- well, you all know it is Bank of America getting out of the correspondent business. And it sure looks like some of these bigger guys are pulling back capacity, especially in the wholesale and correspondent business. Does that give an opportunity for Wells Fargo to expand capacity in that business?

TIM SLOAN: I think that it is fair to say that we have a lot of opportunity to grow capacity today across the board, not just because of the correspondent business alone, but I think the key is to make sure you do it in a real measured way, because there are lots of correspondents that we like to do more business with and some we wouldn't.

But that is not the primary driver for why our refi's are up. Our refi's are us because we are ready have a great servicing customer base.

JOHN STUMPF: In fact, Paul, that is one of the things that I think is missed a lot. We have like a 25% or 26% share of overall originations, but it is much higher on the refinance. Because of the fact that our people do such a great job in servicing we get a disproportionate higher number of people refinancing with us because of our servicing.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, and the other issue is, I hear that a lot from my contacts in the industry is that -- and you have seen some of the notes I have written where the government is being tougher and tougher accepting mortgages now. Does that give an opportunity for you to start to find some niches on your balance sheet and put some decent loans on your balance sheet that is not necessarily jumbos, but just doesn't fit the Fannie and Freddie and FHA boxes?

TIM SLOAN: Well, we wouldn't put loans on our balance sheet just because the government didn't like them. We would put loans on our balance sheet if they provided a good risk return. But there is no question in this environment that there is some good risk return relative to other ways that we can deploy our liquidity, and mortgage is one of them.

JOHN STUMPF: That is an opportunity, Paul, clearly.

PAUL MILLER: And one last question. On the jumbo market, you saw that the FHA -- they're lowering the jumbo spreads a little bit. Are you seeing a pickup in signing of that jumbo product or is that just (multiple speakers) very difficult?

JOHN STUMPF: It is pretty early.

PAUL MILLER: Too early yet. Okay, guys, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Marty Mosby, Guggenheim.

MARTY MOSBY, ANALYST, GUGGENHEIM: I had a question -- actually two questions. One is the deployment of liquidity into loans and securities. You put about $39 billion into securities and about almost $10 billion into loans. What types of assets are you looking and what kind of yield characteristics and duration are you trying to peg as you're going through that process?

TIM SLOAN: On the security side, it is really across the board. It is -- we really look at the risk-adjusted return based upon what is out there today. And so a portion went into short-term -- shorter-term, very high-quality investments, and a portion went into medium-term and some longer-term durations. Obviously, there are more assets out there to buy than there were a few months ago.

On the loan side, again, it is across the board. We feel really pleased that we are seeing loan growth in a number of our businesses and not just one or two. And then as John mentioned, and we gave a couple of examples, we are also able to buy loans in the market today. So it is not one specific area, it is across the board, and I think that just reinforces the value of the diversified model.

MARTY MOSBY: Then when you are looking at revenue compression from last quarter to this quarter you really have -- it looks like almost three components. The market is sensitive is really going down over $800 million. You can take some of those pluses and minuses and it looks like that probably netted out to about a $0.02 impact negative from second to third quarter. And then you've got mortgage offsetting the decline in what you would see in net interest income.

The market sensitive revenues, how do you look at that? And do you think that some of the uncertainty that we hit in this quarter you will begin to see some improvement, or did you see any improvement in that line as we moved through the quarter into the fourth quarter?

TIM SLOAN: Well, Marty, I think you are right. And as we pointed out, there are some puts and takes in the market sensitive revenue, so the $808 million is not what I would think about as a run rate basis, particularly compared to the second quarter. Because you also had an outsized gain in the second quarter that we called out then that we didn't have the third quarter.

I don't know what is going to happen in capital markets in the next few months. They feel like they have settled down today, but you know what, you could have made that same statement in July and you could have made that same statement in the middle of August.

I think the important thing as it relates to the capital markets is make sure you are focused on serving your customers, make sure the you've got good risk discipline in place so you're not sitting on a bunch of loans that you have to sell or other securities that you have to mark in a significant way.

And, again, we think that we are pretty good at that. We've got a good team in place. We are being thoughtful about being focused on customers, so we are not overly concerned about our capital markets activity at all.

MARTY MOSBY: And, lastly, would you say that your guidance on expenses, saying that it is going to go up in the fourth quarter, is primarily tied to the improvement that you see in your mortgage banking fee income?

TIM SLOAN: Well, there is no question that we're going to have increases in expenses related to bringing on team members to support underwrite and close the mortgage pipeline that we are seeing. That will be part of it. But, also, we are still in the midst of an integration. As John mentioned, we had a milestone this weekend, and so the timing of those expenses happen when they happen, and our guess is there it's going to be more of them in the fourth quarter than there were in the third quarter.

Then, also, there is generally some seasonality in all of our expense line items, so we will probably get a little bit of a pickup there, as we saw in the fourth quarter last year.

But again, we want to be really clear that we have made a lot of progress in terms of reducing our expenses this quarter. We continue to believe that we are going to make a lot of progress and reiterate our goal of getting to an $11 billion run rate by the fourth quarter next year.

MARTY MOSBY: Thanks.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: I am looking at your business optimization expenses, down $363 million linked- quarter. So what is that since that fueled a lot of the expense improvement?

TIM SLOAN: So that would have included a number of different items. None of them were candidly very significant, Mike. It is a bit here, a bit there, and it all totaled up to be the differential that is in the numbers.

MIKE MAYO: But those are permanent savings?

TIM SLOAN: Well, there are always some timing in your expenses, but I would -- I guess the important thing is that we wanted to call out the fact that we didn't believe that $758 million reduction in expenses that we saw from the second quarter to the third quarter was all permanent. We called out the $234 million of deferred comp differential and we have mentioned that integration costs were a little bit low. So I think that the permanent reduction is less than that. But -- and again, we think the fourth quarter is going to be a little bit higher, but we will get to the $11 billion number.

MIKE MAYO: I guess we are kind of dancing around the question, so do you think revenues will outpace expenses? Linked-quarter it looks like it was a tie, revenues and expenses both down $800 million. So as we look out, which will win, revenues or expenses?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think over the long term revenues are going to beat expenses.

MIKE MAYO: And by the end of next year, which is the end of your Compass initiatives?

TIM SLOAN: Revenues are going to beat expenses.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, that is --.

JOHN STUMPF: In fact, that is the only way to run a successful company. And there are short-term -- we can't tell from quarter to quarter, and we wouldn't try to predict that, but when you do the right thing over a long period of time, invest in your people, your distribution, your customers, serve them well, serve them broadly and deeply, revenue wins in that race.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and so -- and the key milestone then for us looking at the Company would be the end of next year we should see revenues surpass expenses if you achieve your target, if I heard that correctly?

JOHN STUMPF: Correct.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, and then completely separate, you mentioned the foreclosure rate. You are doing everything you can to keep homeowners in their houses, but there is some houses that are owned as second properties or speculators or are empty, so my question is what percent of homes that you foreclose on are not the primary residence of an individual that is living in the home?

JOHN STUMPF: I don't know that number, but I can tell you that when we get to a foreclosure customers on average are about 16 months past-due, and at the primary residence about 25% have already -- percent have already abandoned the property. So, but I don't have the second home off the top of my head.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: I have a question on page 27 of the handout. It is the page where you go through the PCI accretable yield. And you outline the expected cash flows went up this quarter, by about $2.5 billion, which drove total accretable yield number up from $14.9 billion to $16.9 billion. And then on a bullet down there you say most of that came from the Pick-a-Pay portfolio.

So I guess I am just looking for some insight on what drove your expected cash flow on Pick-a-Pay portfolio up that much during the quarter, and then if any meaningful amount of the total accretable yield difference came from somewhere other than the Pick-a-Pay portfolio?

TIM SLOAN: Fair question. I think, as you know, we look at this estimate every quarter, and there are lots of different factors that drive their assumptions. There is interest rate assumptions; there is liquidation timing, modification assumptions and their performance. And the performance in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio continues to be very strong. So it wasn't any one of those in particular. It was the combination of all of them.

But, again, we have had really good experience to date in terms of the performance of that Pick-a-Pay portfolio. But that was the primary driver for the $2.5 billion increase.

ED NAJARIAN: Do you expect that number to keep going higher? And could you remind us when we look at that $16.9 billion balance how you think about the weighted average or what is the weighted average duration of that $16.9 billion?

TIM SLOAN: Well, on page 28 and page 29 we show the weighted average life on -- for commercial as well as Pick-a-Pay. And I would say that the average is approximately 11 years or 10 to 11 years, because the lion's share of that yield is in the Pick-a-Pay side, so it is going to be around for a long period of time.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, and no outlook in terms of where that $16.9 billion (multiple speakers)?

TIM SLOAN: Oh, in terms of the number, no. I wouldn't -- I would be guessing if there was a specific outlook. As I said, we look at the assumptions and the flows each quarter and come up with what we think is a reasonable estimate and that is what we have here.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks, Tim. And then as a quick follow-up, just looking at your average balance sheet and your mortgage-backed securities yield, that was one of the asset yields that came down a lot during the quarter, down I think by 62 basis point linked-quarter. And I think I understand that some of that decline was because of an increase in the size of the MBS portfolio and the investment of some of the deposit inflows, but obviously probably a good chunk of it was from refinancing activity as well.

So I guess any insight as to how much more pressure you expect on that yield over the next quarter or two from refinancing pressure?

TIM SLOAN: I wouldn't -- there is no question that we had some impact on refinancing, but I wouldn't say that is a big driver. And we don't expect that to be a big driver going forward or at lease more than what we saw this quarter. The other reason that the yield went down is just in terms of some of the securities that we invested in this quarter.

ED NAJARIAN: But generally we should -- well, it seems likely that number will continue to come down, but any sense of how we should think about that from a pace standpoint in terms of that MBS average yield coming down?

TIM SLOAN: No, I really don't have one for you.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, all right, thanks, Tim.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Bank of America recently announced a $5 fee and by my calculations that would recoup most of the loss from Durbin. And if that is the industry standard or if that is one of the -- what some of the major competitors out there -- I guess why are you still more guarded and guiding that you can only recover half? And any idea how long it would take to recover what was lost on the Durbin side?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, the way we think about that is our focus is on building lifelong relationships with our consumers. And we have, as you know, grown checking and savings accounts dollars by $185 billion in three years. And they are binding to the value, the convenience and the choice that we are giving our consumers.

So -- and there is real value here. We have the most stores of any bank. We have 12,000 ATMs. We give free online and free bill pay and all these sort of things. So when you talk about how we are going to get paid for that, we are testing things and we're going to learn. Our customers, they help us understand how they want to pay for that value, that choice, and that convenience. And we will learn from those tests and then we will do what we think will be appropriate so we continue to growth grow household.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Sure. Then, second question I have, it is more of a numbers question and referring to page 37 of the press release, and it is just that on a Basel I basis your risk-weighted assets grew by about $8 billion, but on a Basel III basis they grew by about $60 billion. And I was wondering if that a new interpretation of the rules or they are very different assets that you put on the balance sheet and --?

TIM SLOAN: It is an interpretation of the rules. And in fairness, the rules aren't finalized yet, but we are making our best guess as to what they are, but that is the primary differential.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Can you flesh that out a little bit? Is it beginning to stabilize in your models or -- and can you talk at all about what caused the difference there that (multiple speakers)?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I don't know if we would say it is going to stabilize, because it is going to be a function of how we are going to grow the Company. The easiest way to stabilize would be to shrink, and we don't want to do that.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Well, I meant under the rules, or what caused the delta here and (multiple speakers)?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Chris, one thing is the OCI effects. You're talking about the difference between Basel I and Basel III, that is an influence, and what we are (multiple speakers)? Is that your question?

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: No, I guess my question was under Basel I your risk-weighted assets went up by $8 billion, and under Basel III -- I am looking at the prior press release and this press release side by side -- and your Basel III risk-weighted assets went from $1.12 billion, $1.13 billion to $1.272 billion and it is -- it just seemed like a big increase. (multiple speakers) [your thoughts on Basel III].

TIM SLOAN: Again, we had a growth in the balance sheet this quarter, right. And then we've got, as we continue to refine our interpretation of Basel III, we are going to make adjustments. But again, there wasn't anything significant, and we don't really break that out on an asset class by asset class basis.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, all right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research, LLC.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH, LLC.: A couple questions. There is sort of a shorthand in the market right now with regard to bank stocks that the larger your securities portfolio the more you're going to get hurt in the present rate environment. You guys have always been very astute securities portfolio managers, could you sort of address that?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I appreciate the compliment, first, thank you. What we want to do, Nancy, is look at where we see good risk return. As we have said for the last year, as soon as rates started to really drop it would be really easy for us to grow revenue and to grow the net interest margin by just investing in long dated securities. And then we would be more at risk for a backup when it comes, and some day it will come.

I think from our perspective we want to look at good risk return in terms of what is out there today. There is a lot out there today in terms of securities that we can buy. But we also want to make sure that we are pretty balanced in terms of short, medium, and long-duration assets.

We think we are fairly well-positioned today, because we have an unrecognized gain on the balance sheet that is still pretty significant. I think it is still over $6 billion. So we think we are in pretty good shape even if we saw a rate back up. But again, in a rate back up even if it might affect the unrecognized or unrealized gain, it would be very beneficial for the rest of the Company. So -- and again, I think that is a testament to the balanced model that we have.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, I almost look at it -- I agree with everything Tim said. And one of the things that's happening today, we are not getting recognized or paid for the wonderful deposit franchise we have. And there is real value there. Rates won't stay this low forever. They will back up, and you are either going to see the real quality of the liability side. And in the interim things look different in the market today than they looked nine months ago. Some good and not -- some of it is not good, as far as we've got QE2s and twists and this and that. And those things could have -- surely have an impact influence on rates. But over time rates will rise and I think we are uniquely well-positioned for that time.

NANCY BUSH: The second question is this. I think the CFPB announced last week that one of their first forays would be an examination of the mortgage servicers to basically make sure you're not doing bad things. And it just seems to me that it is getting a little crowded in the mortgage servicing space right now.

Could you guys just summarize for us the various regulatory issues or activities that are swirling around your mortgage servicing portfolio right now, and do you have any idea how much this is costing you?

TIM SLOAN: You are correct, Nancy, that there is a lot of regulatory oversight in the mortgage servicing business today. Whether you're talking about the CFPB's upcoming activities or any of the other regulators. We feel like we are implementing -- we began to implement changes last year. We have continued to implement more changes pursuant to the consent order though the cost of those changes are included in all of our numbers right now.

JOHN STUMPF: Think of it this way. A lot has changed in the mortgage business really starting in 2008. There is no -- this low doc and liar loans and stated income is all history. So if you look at the originations, starting -- it is really the 2006, the 2008 vintages that we are working through. But 2008 from then on it is really a different ballgame, first of all. Secondly, on the foreclosure side, as Tim mentioned, we have made changes.

You are right, there are a lot of people and regulators and so forth that are swirling around, but in our case most of our production is done by our people on the direct side. And we have been around this thing for a long time, and I am confident that we have got the right people leading that organization.

And you never know where all these things turned out. But it is a very different environment today vis-a-vis five or six years ago. Even we didn't participate in some of the most egregious things. We held our disciplines really well during that time -- not perfect, but pretty darn well. I can't predict what is going to happen next, but it is a very different business.

NANCY BUSH: And just one final issue for you, John, as you are -- I am sure you are very well aware every day of Occupy Wall Street and Occupy Montgomery Street and all the other Occupies that seem to be going on. You did a good summary at the beginning of the call of the stuff that Wells Fargo does, I think, that perhaps is not recognized -- the charitable contributions, the level of employment, etc., etc. What do you and for your banking industry peers need to do to make it known that the banking industry is not some big, evil behemoth out to crush the middle class?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, that is a good question. First of all, I understand some of the angst and anger. This downturn has been too long. Unemployment is too high, and people are hurting. We get that.

We have 265,000 people of which most of them are in the US. We live and work in these communities. We are committed to lead more, hire more, lend more, be part of the solution. And I don't think you do that through an advertising program. You do that knee to knee, street corner by street corner, community by community, and that is what we are committed to do.

NANCY BUSH: But, no, you don't see anything coming out of the industry that is an answer to some of the stuff that is being put out there by the administration and others at this point?

JOHN STUMPF: You know, I think we are all in this thing together. And I think we are all trying to respond in the most appropriate way of serving our communities, serving each other, helping to get the economy going. Again, I think this is very much about getting it done as opposed to some program of some type.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Tim, I've got two reconciliation questions. Forget about the margin for a second, if I just look at net interest income dollars, your average earning assets were $26 billion in the quarter. Your deposit growth was slightly accretive to net interest income. And the accretable yields contribution wasn't materially different than what it was in second quarter. And yet your net interest income dollars were down about $140 million sequentially. What drove the dollars being down?

TIM SLOAN: Well, it was a function of one-timers that we had in the second quarter. It was a function of some security and loan runoff, and it was a function of repricing, but it was all those together in terms of the decline.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: But it seems like if 12 of the 17 basis points of margin compression was deposit related, but the deposit was actually accretive to net interest income dollars, it seems like a difference -- the 5 basis points of compression would have been more than offset by almost, what, $30 billion of average earning asset growth in the quarter.

I am just -- I didn't see how the dollars came down as much as I had -- the dollars came down more than I would have anticipated given the growth in the balance sheet.

The second thing on a reconciliation, when I look at the one line item on the income statement, the net gains from trading activities, and I know you went through some of those numbers, but that was a loss of $442 million. If I back out, I think, the three items you mentioned, the $234 million from deferred compensation investment income, the $106 million and the net loss between the two legacy Wachovia positions, and $108 million in the weak markets, if I net those out that line item would have been zero.

In the past four or five quarters it has been running about $500 million or so. So what is the difference netting -- even netting out those three items what is the difference in that category this quarter versus what we have seen in the past three or four quarters?

TIM SLOAN: Are you talking about the debt or equity or just the (multiple speakers)?

CHRIS MUTASCIO: This is just net gains and losses from trading activities, which was a negative $442 million a quarter. In the last four quarters it has been roughly about $500 million positive.

TIM SLOAN: So within that number would have been the outsized equity gains that we had in the second quarter. And that is the primary driver in terms of differential. Because, remember, the equity gain -- the equity gains that we had in the second quarter were about $725 million. In this quarter it was --.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: No, that is in a different line item. On your income statement your net gains on investment -- equity investments (multiple speakers).

TIM SLOAN: I thought you're talking about the trading asset line.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: This is just page 19 of your release this morning. There is two different line items. There is net gains on trading activities, there is also net gains on investment equity investments. I think the net gain on the equity investments includes that one-time gain last quarter. But if you are looking at the net gains on trading activities, and I back out those one-time items, if you will, that would have been a zero versus again about a $500 million run rate the past four quarters. I don't think that includes the equity investment gains.

TIM SLOAN: I thought you were talking about a different line item. I am sorry. So if you look at the -- you're talking about the $854 million, right, that differential? (multiple speakers).

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Yes, yes.

TIM SLOAN: From $415 million to the $441 million?

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Yes.

TIM SLOAN: Right, so you would have had the gross effect of one of the legacy Wachovia positions that we are close to reaching a resolution on. So that was about $370 million, $380 million. Then you would have had the $234 million in terms of the deferred comp. And the rest of it was just a function of what was going on in the market, nothing specific.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay, so there is no one line item in there that was more negative than the three items that you mentioned in your statements?

TIM SLOAN: No, no, we would have called it out if that were the case.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right, thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thanks Chris. I appreciate it. And thank you very much. I appreciate everybody's time, and we will do this next quarter. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: This does conclude today's conference call. Thank you all for participating and you may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020111031e7ah00209
  


 HD
 Q2  2011 Wells  Fargo  & Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
9,831 words
   PD
19 July 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn today's call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Celeste and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf and CFO, Tim Sloan, will review second-quarter results and answer your questions.

Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today containing the earnings release and quarterly supplement.

Information about any non-GAAP financial measures referenced, including a reconciliation of those measure to GAAP measures, can also be found in our SEC filings, in the earnings release and in the quarterly supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I will now turn the call over to John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thank you, Jim and good morning and thanks for joining us today. The results we will review with you this morning are a product of our steadfast focus on five key priorities -- helping customers succeed, growing revenue, reducing expense, living our vision and values, and building strong relationships with our key stakeholders.

The second quarter also reflected the strengths of Wells Fargo diversified business model and operating culture, which continued to produce record high results in a tough economic business climate.

In the second quarter, all of our business fundamentals moved in the right direction -- revenues, loans, deposits, expenses, credit and capital. This is how we delivered the highest earnings in Wells Fargo's history with net income of $3.9 billion, an increase of 29% from a year ago, and an EPS of $0.70, up 27% over the same period.

Our strong financial performance led to strong internal capital generation producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under Basel III capital proposals of 7.4%. We grew capital even as we rewarded our loyal shareholders through dividends and with the reinstatement of our share buyback program during the quarter.

The second quarter also included many examples of the ongoing benefit of our merger with Wachovia beginning with the successful completion of our largest state conversion -- Florida. With Florida now operating under the Wells Fargo brand, we have 83% of our banking customers on a single system, a powerful advantage for the future. We have converted 2215 Wachovia stores, as well as 23.7 million customer accounts, including mortgage, deposits, trusts, brokerage and credit cards. Our success reflects the tremendous effort made by our entire team.

For the conversions in Pennsylvania and Florida alone, team members in our banking stores completed over 217,000 hours of training and practice. To help support our stores during conversion, 2360 bankers from stores in the West each spent more than a week in the converted states to ensure a smooth transition.

But the biggest benefit of the largest merger in our industry's history are revenue synergies, many of which we are already starting to realize. They reflect the payoffs that are possible when a team has a plan, follows it with discipline and doesn't allow headwinds to distract them.

Let me highlight just a few. Our continued strong growth in consumer checking accounts demonstrates our success at attracting new customers even during the integration. In our Eastern retail banking stores, consumer checking accounts were up over 30% from a year ago. New credit card accounts also grew in the East, growing more than 140% from a year ago, as we began to see a meaningful lift in credit card penetration rates in our converted markets, up from 13.2% at the end of 2010 to 14.5% at the end of the second quarter.

Wachovia had a well-run auto business before their merger and it has only become a more robust part of Wells Fargo, growing indirect auto loans by more than 50% since the merger. Our marketshare has also increased and that has made Wells Fargo the largest used-car auto lender and the second largest overall auto lender in the industry.

Wholesale banking businesses have benefited from the merger as well with more customers, a broader productline and higher cross-sell. For example, year-to-date, our investment banking marketshare for 2011 was 4.7%, up from 3.7% for the first six months of 2009.

Investment banking revenue, with corporate and commercial customers, also has increased, growing 53% during the first six months of 2011 versus the same period last year, reflecting continued success in cross-selling investment banking products to our wholesale customer base.

Foreign-exchange revenue from wholesale customers is also up 24% during the first six months of 2011 versus the first six months of 2010 and trade fees in the second quarter from corporate and commercial customers were up 13% annualized in the first quarter.

In Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement, the benefit of converting to one system and greater scale in each of its businesses are reflected in a 27% increase in client assets since the merger. The Retail Brokerage business, which is the third largest full service brokerage business, retail brokerage firm in the US, continued to grow with net flows of more than $50 billion into managed accounts since the merger. And by focusing on meeting all the financial needs of our customers, Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement's deposits have grown 28% and broker loan originations have grown by 47% since the merger.

Clearly, it was an outstanding quarter and we aren't stopping here. As our CFO, Tim Sloan, will highlight in a few moments as he walks through the quarter's details, we think our opportunities to operate more cost effectively are just as promising as the growth opportunities that we believe lie ahead of us and are important as we continue to help even more customers succeed financially in the future. Now let me turn this over to Tim Sloan.

TIM SLOAN, SVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, John and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the slide presentation included in the first half of the quarterly supplement starting on slide 2. I want to focus my comments today in four areas. First, the drivers behind our strong business results this quarter, which included record earnings of 5% from the first quarter, our highest ROA in three years, continued improvement in credit and linked-quarter growth in revenue, loans, deposits and pretax pre-prevision profit.

Second, as I promised, I will discuss our focus on reducing expenses, including Project Compass and our $11 billion quarterly noninterest expense target by the fourth quarter of 2012.

Third, I will update you on current mortgage issues, including the quality of our servicing portfolio, mortgage repurchases, securities litigation, and consent orders and also highlight some of the actions that we have already taken.

Finally, I will conclude with an update on our growing capital levels and capital actions.

Let me start by highlighting just how strong our results were this quarter and our many areas of growth. We achieved record EPS of $0.70, up 4% from the first quarter. Our revenue was up $57 million from Q1 with growth in both net interest income and non-interest income. Growth was broad-based with several businesses generating double-digit annualized linked-quarter growth, including corporate banking, commercial real estate, debit card, insurance, international, merchant services, retirement services, and SBA lending.

Pretax pre-prevision profit was $7.9 billion, up 4% from the first quarter. Our period-end loans were up $766 million and average core deposits increased $10.7 billion from the first quarter. The benefit of our continued focus on meeting our customers' lending needs throughout the past few years helped produce loan growth this quarter despite the continued reduction in our liquidating portfolio. Our core loan portfolio, which excludes the liquidating portfolio, grew by $5.8 billion from the first quarter. Loan growth in this quarter was driven by our commercial portfolio, which grew $7.5 billion, or 2% from the first quarter.

Growth was diverse across commercial businesses, including linked-quarter growth in commercial banking, commercial real estate, corporate banking, capital finance, asset-backed finance and international. Consumer loans were down 2% from the first quarter, driven by the liquidating portfolio runoff, partially offset by growth in auto, credit card and private student lending. The runoff of the liquidating portfolio continued as expected, down $5 billion from the first quarter and down $69 billion, or 36% since the Wachovia merger.

Deposit growth remained very strong again this quarter, driven by new account and balance growth. Average core deposits were up $10.7 billion from the first quarter and up $45.7 billion, or 6% from a year ago and were 107% of average loans. Average checking and savings deposits were up $735 billion, up 9% from a year ago and were 91% of average core deposits, up from 88% a year ago.

Consumer checking accounts were up 7% from a year ago. The strong growth we achieved throughout our banking states demonstrates our ability to both acquire and retain customers as we successfully complete the largest merger integration in the industry.

While deposit rates are at historically low levels, we continue to bring down deposit yields with average deposit costs declining to 28 basis points, down from 30 basis points in the first quarter and down 35 basis points from a year ago.

Turning to slide 6, as I mentioned, our revenue growth this quarter was driven by growth in both net interest income and non-interest income. Tax-equivalent net interest income increased $39 million from the first quarter. The increase was driven by the period-end balance of our available-for-sale securities portfolio increasing $18 billion, reflecting deployment of excess liquidity and the decline in our long-term debt expense from the maturity of debt and the redemption of high-cost trust preferred securities.

These positives were partially offset by the decline in mortgages held for sale, driven by lower funding volumes and the fact that loan growth in the core loan portfolio was offset by expected runoff in the higher-yielding liquidating portfolio. These loans generally have higher charge-offs and cost more to service.

Non-interest income was up $30 million from the first quarter with growth in deposit service charges, trust and investment fees, card fees, processing fees, insurance, equity gains and operating leases more than offsetting declines in mortgage. The increase in card fees, up 46%, or 5% from Q1, reflects an 8% increase in debit card volume and a 13% increase in credit card volume. New credit card accounts were up 12% from the first quarter and up 63% from a year ago.

Mortgage banking revenue was down $397 million, or 20% from the first quarter, reflecting a $20 billion decline in origination volume. As rates declined in this quarter, there was an increase in application volume and the unclosed mortgage pipeline increased $6 billion to $51 billion as of the end of the second quarter.

With the final Federal Reserve rules regarding debit interchange fees, we have lowered our estimate of the impact on our earnings to approximately $250 million quarterly after tax before any offsets starting in the fourth quarter of 2011. We expect to recapture at least half of this through volume -- half of this over time through volume and product changes.

Our second-quarter results also benefited from lower expenses. Non-interest expense was down $258 million, or 2%, from the first quarter and down $865 million from the fourth quarter of last year, driven by lower commissions and incentive compensation, employee benefit costs and equipment expense.

Second-quarter expenses included only $10 million of higher FDIC insurance assessments, which is lower than our previous guidance. Our assessment reflects the fact that deposits as a percentage of assets is greater than many of our peers.

Second-quarter expenses also included $484 million of merger integration costs, up $44 million from the first quarter, reflecting increased integration activity. And finally, second-quarter expenses included $428 million of operating losses, substantially all driven by litigation accruals for mortgage foreclosure-related matters.

As I promised last quarter, I am going to spend some time on the call today talking about our expense initiative, Project Compass. This starts on slide 9. Project Compass is a companywide initiative focused on removing unnecessary complexity and eliminating duplication as a way to improve the customer experience and the work process of our team members.

While Project Compass is focused on reducing expenses, we are using a bottoms-up approach to ensure revenue is not adversely affected. Wells Fargo is still very, very focused on growing revenue as we did this quarter and we believe if we do this right, we will have increased revenue and a more streamlined operating model.

Project Compass has three main areas of focus. First, staff and technology functions. As our Company has grown, we have become more complex. We are focused on removing unnecessary complexity and eliminating duplication in our staff functions. Throughout the merger integration, we have been focused on IT consistency, one platform throughout our Company to serve our customers seamlessly. With Project Compass, we are focused on simplifying the technology environment across our Company, particularly in such areas as data centers, help desks and application development and support. For example, we recently moved technology support for Human Resources, Finance, Corporate Properties and Internet Services under the Corporate Technology group.

Second, loan resolution, loss mitigation and foreclosed asset expenses should decline as the credit cycle improves. At the same time, process improvements can also be made in this area such as automating asset tracking and payment processing and centralizing certain functions.

The third area of focus is business optimization, which consists of business efficiency and business portfolio reviews. Business efficiency is focused on ensuring team members are supporting revenue-generating activity as cost-effectively as possible by removing unnecessary complexity and duplication. To date, we have consolidated our auto business and reorganized our Wealth Management business to improve business efficiency.

Business portfolio review is a continuation of our long-standing practice of reviewing all lines of business to ensure they are generating appropriate returns and work within our business model. As a result of these reviews, we have closed Wells Fargo Financial stores, exited the reverse mortgage business and announced the sale of H.D. Vest.

As a result of Compass initiatives and the completion of merger integration activities, we are targeting quarterly noninterest expenses to decline to $11 billion by the fourth quarter of 2012, down 12% from the $12.5 billion this quarter. The target reflects expense save initiatives that will be executed over the next six quarters. However, quarterly expense trends may vary due to factors such as cyclical or seasonal increases, particularly in the first quarter when higher incentive compensation and employee benefit expenses typically occur. Our $11 billion target includes currently contemplated investments in our businesses and team members such as hiring more team members in banking stores in the East.

Turning to our segment results starting on slide 13, Community Banking earned $2.1 billion, down 4% from the first quarter, reflecting lower mortgage banking results. Other businesses within Community Banking continued to grow. We had record retail banking cross-sell of 5.84 products, up from 5.64 a year ago. With cross-sell in the East at 5.29 products compared to the West at 6.25, we have plenty of opportunity to continue to grow across our franchise. Over the past year, we have added an incremental 1500 platform banker FTEs in the East, up 16%, to better capture this opportunity. Core product sales in the West were over 8.3 million, up 16% from the prior year. Core product sales in the East grew by double digits.

Wholesale Banking earned $1.9 billion, up 17% from the first quarter, with revenue up 3%, expenses down 1% and continued improvement in credit costs. Linked-quarter revenue growth was driven by strong results across many businesses, including investment banking, Eastdil Secured, commercial real estate, international, corporate banking and insurance.

These results also reflect strong loan growth, up 4% from the first quarter, which was broad-based across a number of the wholesale businesses. This growth reflects our commitment to meeting our wholesale customers' financial needs. We continue to meet with our customers and grew our customer base when the market was soft and we are now benefiting from the relationships we have both expanded and built during the past three years.

Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement earned $333 million, down 2% from the first quarter, driven by lower brokerage transaction revenue reflecting lower market activity, while asset-based fees remain strong, up 3% from the first quarter. Expenses were down 3% from the first quarter due to lower personnel costs. Average loans were up 2% from the first quarter with growth in brokerage lines of credit, margin loans and wealth. Managed account assets were up 3% from the first quarter, driven by strong net flows. Our continued focus on helping customers succeed financially drove cross-sell to 9.9 products, up from 9.7 a year ago.

Credit quality continues to improve as shown on slide 17. Charge-offs declined for the sixth consecutive quarter, down $372 million from the first quarter and 48% below the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009. Provision expense was $1.8 billion, down $372 million from the first quarter, including a $1 billion reserve release. Absent a significant deterioration in the economy, we expect future reserve releases.

Other credit metrics continued to show improvement. Nonperforming assets were down $2.6 billion, or 8% from the first quarter, driven by loans returning to performing status, loan payoffs, loan sales, improved success in home modifications and increased short sale activity. Non-accrual loan inflows were down 15% from the first quarter. Loans 90 days past due declined for the sixth consecutive quarter, down $598 million from the first quarter, or 25%. Early-stage delinquencies, both balances and rates, also declined from the first quarter.

We believe our servicing portfolio is among the best in the industry. Our portfolio is fundamentally different from other large mortgage servicers. Starting on slide 19, we highlight the quality of our portfolio. The majority of our $1.8 trillion residential servicing portfolio, or 69%, is serviced for the agencies. Only 6% are private securitizations where we originated the loans.

As a reminder, the characteristics of our non-agency securitization portfolio are different from our larger peers. 80% were prime at origination, 58% are from pre-2006 vintages. There is an insignificant amount of home equity and there are no option ARMs. Approximately 50% of the private securitizations do not have traditional reps and warranties. 6% of the total servicing portfolio is non-agency acquired servicing and private whole loan sales with the majority having repurchased recourse with the originator. The remaining 19% are loans we hold on our balance sheet and losses are recognized through the loan-loss reserves and the PCI non-accretable difference.

The quality of our portfolio is demonstrated by our delinquency and foreclosure rate. Once again, based upon the most recent publicly available data, our rate was the lowest among large bank peers and was over 300 basis points lower than the industry average. Total outstanding repurchased demands are down in both number and balances for the fourth consecutive quarter. Losses on repurchases also declined from $331 million in the first quarter to $261 million in the second quarter.

Agency repurchased demands were up modestly from the first quarter due to an acceleration in the timing of the review of defaulted loans on older vintages. We do not believe this acceleration increases our future demand risk. Total non-agency repurchase demands declined for the third consecutive quarter. We added $242 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter, essentially flat with the $249 million we added last quarter.

Let me highlight a few other mortgage-related matters. We recently reached a preliminary settlement of $125 million to address securities law claims by buyers of private-label mortgage-backed securities. This settlement should resolve pending securities law claims for most purchasers of our private-label mortgage-backed securities. If approved, this settlement would have no future P&L impact since it has been considered in our litigation reserves.

As we discussed last quarter, we entered into consent orders with the OCC and the Fed regarding foreclosure processing this year. We remain committed to full compliance and we are enhancing several aspects of our servicing, including single point of contact. We remain committed to helping our customers who are experiencing financial difficulties. And we have done approximately 695,000 trial and completed modifications since 2009 and we have forgiven over $4 billion of principle.

In addition to these actions to help our customers, we have continued to reflect our best estimates of potential costs surrounding mortgage-related issues in our financial results. We have reduced the value of our MSR asset by $445 million in the second quarter and have reduced the value of this asset by over $2.5 billion over the past 2.5 years to reflect higher servicing and foreclosure costs.

And as I previously mentioned, we also had $428 million of operating losses in the second quarter, substantially all from litigation accruals for mortgage foreclosure-related matters.

As shown on slide 22, capital ratios continued to grow through strong internal capital generation. Our Tier 1 common equity ratio increased to 9.16%, up 23 basis points from the first quarter, and up 155 basis points from a year ago. Under current Basel III capital proposals, our estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio grew to 7.4% this quarter.

$3.4 billion of trust preferreds were redeemed in the second quarter with a weighted average coupon of 7.44%. We expect to redeem additional trust preferred securities in the second half of this year. We restarted our open market common stock repurchase program and repurchased 35 million shares in the second quarter and we will continue to opportunistically buy back our stock.

In summary, our strong results this quarter reflect strength throughout our franchise as we produced quarterly growth in revenue, loans and deposits and our return on assets was 1.27%, our highest ROA in three years.

The decline in non-interest expense from the first quarter is just the beginning of our efforts targeting $11 billion in quarterly non-interest expense by the fourth quarter of 2012. The quality of our loan portfolio has resulted in continued improvement in charge-offs, nonperforming assets and early-stage delinquencies across our portfolios. Our capital levels continued to grow and we returned more capital to our shareholders.

We are optimistic that the momentum demonstrated in our results this quarter will drive future growth as we complete the Wachovia merger integration, remain disciplined on expenses and continue to focus on meeting the financial needs of our customers. I will now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. I just wanted to make sure -- you said you were going to be doing a portfolio review and you mentioned that in the context of the expenses. Does that suggest that there would be any revenues impacted by a portfolio review or not?

JOHN STUMPF: No, I wouldn't read that into it. We are always looking at our portfolios and what makes sense. But no, I wouldn't go -- that is not our intention.

TIM SLOAN: And Betsy, I would just reinforce that the $11 billion target that we set for the fourth quarter of next year assumes revenue growth. We believe that we can achieve that target by continuing to grow our revenues.

JOHN STUMPF: And Betsy, just let me highlight that. Nothing -- revenues remain king around here and we think that by becoming more efficient, we actually can grow revenue faster. We will be more competitive on the street and we have, as Tim mentioned in his comments, we have assumed in these numbers adding more people, put more feet on the street and if we see some opportunity between now and the end of 2012, we will even do more.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just separately on page 6, you talk through the NII during the quarter. Can you talk about what kind of mitigating factors you have to deal with the potential for further earning asset yield compression?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think the key for the business is to continue to grow loans and we were able to grow loans on a sequential basis, particularly in our wholesale portfolios in the quarter, which was really exciting. We saw a decline in the rate of the drop-off in the noncore nonstrategic portfolios.

I think in addition, as we mentioned, we purchased about $18 billion of AFS securities, high-quality, short duration assets toward the end of the quarter. We will continue to look for those types of opportunities. And it is also likely that we will hold more mortgages that we originate on the sheet.

JOHN STUMPF: Especially as the conforming caps come down.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. That is going to happen in September, so as we move to fourth quarter, can you give us any sense of how much you are expecting to retain relative to current run rate?

TIM SLOAN: No, we don't have a good estimate for that right now because we are not 100% sure what jumbo origination would be in terms of that mortgage class, but it is likely that we are going to hold more mortgages on the balance sheet than we did in the second quarter.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, all right, thanks.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Tim, a question on the noninterest expense side and the target. The foreclosed asset expense, it doesn't decline that much in your target by fourth quarter of 2012. Does that assume that you are still working through the cycle there and there is more room to improve that particular line beyond the fourth quarter of 2012?

TIM SLOAN: That is a reasonable assumption, John, but I would also say, John, there are some additional costs because of regulatory reform and some of the -- and the consent order that we had to build into our thinking there.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. So some piece of that is still cyclically elevated and some of it is just going to be structurally a little bit higher than it was historically?

JOHN STUMPF: Correct. That's a good way of thinking of it.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Another question is you are not a huge international player, but you do have some businesses. Could you comment on your exposure to the troubled economies in Europe and how you think about risks there for your business?

TIM SLOAN: Sure. Right now, we have $3.2 billion of exposure to the countries affectionately called PIIGS. Very little of that exposure is sovereign risk. Most of it is the corporates and bonds. Having said that, one of the real benefits from putting Wells Fargo and Wachovia together was growing our international presence and our GFIS business is a terrific business and will continue to grow internationally, but we want to do it in a way where we take appropriate credit risk and deal with the right customers.

JOHN STUMPF: And John, most of our international business -- first of all, it is a very small percentage of our revenue, but as Tim mentioned, it is a business we like a lot. It is a correspondent business for central and international commercial banks and it is highly biased or skewed towards foreign exchange, trade and those kinds of things. But it is a very small piece of our overall Company.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last question is could you give us any color on where you stand in terms of building reserves for litigation and regulatory matters, including the AG discussions? Is this process of building litigation reserves likely to go on for a while in your view?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, here is how I think about that. First of all, I am not going to speculate on the ultimate outcome of the discussion with the AGs and the Department of Justice. But the reserves, the litigation reserves we have today reflect our best estimate of the [essable] and probable outcomes of the discussions and conversations we have had.

And remember, in addition to that, we have also written down the MSR by $2.5 billion to reflect the future costs of servicing those mortgages and we, of course, have a loan-loss reserve that we believe is adequate considering all the discussions we have had. So think of it in those three ways.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: That is our best estimate for what we know today.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, and then one quick follow-up, Tim, on Betsy's discussion around the NIM and the NII. So as you look ahead, how would you kind of summarize the puts and takes for the net interest income and the NIM going forward here?

TIM SLOAN: In terms of what the NIM might look like in future quarters?

JOHN MCDONALD: Just positives and negatives and where the key variables are, what leverage you might have and what environmental factors are going to influence whether you are able to grow NII and keep the NIM stable.

TIM SLOAN: Well, I think the key leverage we have is just to continue to grow loans. We have really grown relationships. We have talked about the success of the merger integration and so that is number one. I think number two, as we've talked about in the past, to the extent that rates rise a bit, we will invest at a faster pace than we are investing our excess liquidity today.

Having said that, as we mentioned, in the second quarter, we took advantage of some short duration assets that we found attractive. Again, these are high quality, well underwritten. We will continue to do that.

JOHN STUMPF: John, I think of it this way. We have a NIM around 4% now in probably one of the toughest environments I have ever seen. I mean there is very tepid loan demand. We are winning new relationships. But you've got to run pretty hard just to cover the runoff of some things that we would like to see run off. And this wonderful deposit franchise we have is I think really undervalued in today's economic times. So these are pretty tough headwinds and we are doing pretty well in that. And we are also sitting on almost $90 billion of liquidity that is -- we are not even earning the cost of our deposits on that. So I mean we have some real dry powder here, if you will.

TIM SLOAN: And John, just the final point and that is when you look at one of the reasons that our liability costs came down, it was because we repurchased some TruPS. As I mentioned, we will continue to repurchase TruPS in the second half of the year as well as the fact that we have got about $20 billion of debt that is going to mature in the second half of the year and I think will reduce our funding costs there too.

JOHN MCDONALD: And can we assume that the amount that you deployed this quarter, Tim, was pretty small relative to the $90 billion of liquidity? Can you tell us --?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, that is correct. Yes, absolutely.

JOHN MCDONALD: Very small. Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. Can you comment at all on the timing of the expense reductions as we think about getting from the mid-12s down to the 11 range over the next I guess six quarters? Is that straight line, front-ended, back-ended?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it is not back-ended and it is probably not going to be front-ended. I don't know if it is going to be at a straight line, but it is probably going to be closer to a continued quarterly reduction like we have shown for the last couple of quarters than anything else. Though, again, I would highlight that we could have some seasonal impacts, but the important thing, Matt, is you shouldn't expect the expenses to be flat and then all of a sudden we will just have a big drop in the fourth quarter of next year. We are going to continue each quarter to reduce our expenses and work hard at doing that.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: And any related restructuring charges that we should expect?

TIM SLOAN: Not anything that is abnormal, no.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay, and then just different topic, among the regional and super regional banks, you have a bigger delta between your Basel I and Basel III capital ratios. I think it is about 1.8% or so. One, can you remind us why there is such a big difference? I think part of it is deductions and part of it is the RWA inflation. And then two, what are some of the opportunities you have to narrow that 1.8% gap?

TIM SLOAN: Matt, I will take you at your word that it is about 1.8%, but the way that we think about it is that, historically, Wells Fargo has always felt that it is important to have adequate capital. That is one of the reasons why we got through the downturn as well as we did. So we have been competing against the regional banks, other smaller regional banks, with more capital and we don't believe that is a big issue. I think that the difference is specifically between our sheet and each bank's is going to be kind of bank by bank.

JOHN STUMPF: Matt, I am a little confused. I thought the big banks we compete with have a bigger delta between 1% and 3%.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: No, I'm sorry. I meant versus other regional -- I guess I tend to think about you -- (multiple speakers).

JOHN STUMPF: No, no. On the regional side, I get it, but surely not on the big side.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Right. So your gap is less, but I think all things else being equal, you would like it to be even less than it is. (multiple speakers)

JOHN STUMPF: Less is good in this case.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: So are there opportunities to --?

JOHN STUMPF: If there are -- we are always looking at that, but we are not going to do anything stupid or anything that doesn't make business sense. I don't worry about us getting to whatever our number will be. We are growing capital very quickly now and we are going to do the right thing for the business and for our customers and I wouldn't do something different just because I am trying to figure out some way to narrow that gap or that we have a challenge getting to the number.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just lastly, it is a little bit of an annoying and accounting question on the accretable yield, but on page 32, you show the accretable yield balance coming down by about $1.1 billion or $1.2 billion, the weighted average life increasing and I am just trying to understand what drove both the accretable yield balance down much more than the accretion that came into earnings and then why the average life -- I assume it is related, but why that increased?

TIM SLOAN: So, you are right, Matt. When you look at the PCI accretable yield, it was down about $1 billion from the first to the second quarter. About half of that reduction was the normal accretion, which we recognized in NII this quarter. The other half was due to a decline in our expected cash flows. This decline was driven primarily by Pick-A-Pay. Again, recall these are lifetime estimates. We update these quarterly. They can be affected by interest rates, liquidation timing, loan modification activity.

I think the important thing to remember is that the projected accretion is still significantly better than we had at acquisition. At acquisition, we thought this would be about $10.4 billion. We are at $14.9 billion this quarter. So even after netting out the $6.1 billion of accretion we have recognized since the merger, we are still higher.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: So the pace that that accreted into earnings, we can think about the remaining balance of roughly $13 billion that is 10 years, so it is going to be with us at a similar pace more or less for quite some time?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, it has been pretty steady, so I think that is a fair way to look at it.

JOHN STUMPF: A good way of thinking of it.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Thanks for taking all my questions.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. And there has been a lot of stuff, earnings out this morning, so I am all over the place, but did you address loan demand and also especially like I think you had a big drive this year to drive small business loans and I am wondering if you can give us an update on that.

TIM SLOAN: Yes, we did address loan demand. Our loans were up sequentially from the first to the second quarter by $766 million. The core loan portfolio grew $5.8 billion from the first quarter. The loan growth was strongest in our commercial portfolio at $7.5 billion, which is up about 2% from the quarter, and then the runoff of the liquidating portfolio was down about $5 billion. And one of the areas that we grew, I think we got an award actually in the second quarter, SBA, was our small business area.

JOHN STUMPF: Those loans were up, small business.

PAUL MILLER: There has been a couple of banks out there saying that, in mid-May, they saw loan demand kind of dry up due to some of the headlines from the debt ceiling talks and overseas. Have you seen loan demand consistent throughout the quarter and even into July?

TIM SLOAN: We saw loan demand consistent throughout the quarter overall. Every area is going to be a little bit different, but overall loan demand was pretty consistent and I think that reflects the balance of our diversified model. We are not dependent on one specific area, which is pretty exciting.

JOHN STUMPF: Not only -- also by geography.

TIM SLOAN: By geography too.

JOHN STUMPF: And by product type.

PAUL MILLER: So did you see consistent across geography? Was there certain areas that you saw better loan demand than others?

JOHN STUMPF: Not necessarily by geography different, but surely difference based on the kind of business it is. Those who have commodities that they are selling, as commodity prices go up or down, you will see more inventory financing. Agriculture, we are the largest US lender to agriculture and people putting crops in and doing things and buying fertilizer, we are financing that. So it's more I would say business-specific or industry-specific as opposed to geography-specific.

PAUL MILLER: Okay. Thanks a lot, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KEEFE, BRUYETTE & WOODS: Thanks. I just wanted to follow up on the capital discussion. I mean we are expecting to get some word this week out of the Basel committee on how they define global systemically important companies. I am wondering any thoughts in terms of where Wells falls into that and your thoughts on that, number one. And number two, with 7.4% Tier 1 common under Basel III, that looks quite healthy relative to the 7%. Should we expect continued capital accumulation in the next year or two or can we expect that to level off at some point?

JOHN STUMPF: Fred, we did get more information since the last call and now the bid/ask seems to be between 1% and 2.5% and they also shared, as you have all read, some of the criteria that gets you closer to the 1% or closer to 2.5% based on size, interconnectedness, complexity.

On some of those measures, we don't even hit the scale. We are so whatever the opposite of interconnected is, not connected and not complex. So we have not been told our number and we will know more as you will know more, but my expectation is that whatever the number is, I am expecting it to be in the low to moderate side. And what you add that to the 7, I just don't see this as an issue for us as I mentioned in my comments. And we can't wait here to return more capital to our shareholders, our very loyal stockholders for a very long time. And if you think of the kind of earnings we have today and the capital accumulation, I mean you can just do your own math. This is just not a big issue for us as I see it today.

PAUL MILLER: Great. Okay, thanks. Then just on that, John, once we get those numbers, would you like to operate any kind of strategic sense of where you would like to operate, how much above that or pretty close to it?

JOHN STUMPF: Wells Fargo has always had this bias and view of strong capital. We even did that before Basel -- even knew where Basel was or anything about the accords. And that is the history of the Company and what it gives you is the financial flexibility to do a Wachovia or do strategic things that really are important at a time when that capital really matters then. But we will have to see what the numbers are and what the rules are and how it all comes down. So it is a little too early to comment on that, but, again, just we have got other six quarters or so before the start of 2013 and I just don't see this as a big issue.

PAUL MILLER: Thanks and just one more. In terms of the loan growth, one thing I don't think you've talked about too much was credit cards. It looked like you got some pretty good fee growth quarter-over-quarter and year-over-year. It's still a relatively small portfolio compared to your peers. Any color on that portfolio or opportunity?

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. So we have something in the range of $28 million plus retail checking accounts and the penetration of credit cards in the East is about 14.5% of our retail checking accounts have a credit card. It is 2.5 or 3 times more than that on the West. We think there is huge opportunity here. And I can't wait to get a credit card in every one of our customers -- our creditworthy customers' wallets and not only in there, to be the dominant card or the primary card. So I think there is huge organic opportunity here.

We like that business from a customer perspective and not only for the transaction volume that they do, but it is another payment product. So we think there is big opportunity. And again, we are growing checking accounts also very quickly. So as we are catching the train, the train is also moving here, which is a good thing. Net checking accounts were up on the retail side 7% year-over-year. Those are big numbers because it is off of a big base.

PAUL MILLER: Great, thanks, John.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. Could you expand a little bit in terms of your earlier comments, John, about capital deployment and how you see kind of the mix between further purchases and TruPS stock buyback? You have done obviously some of both this quarter and whether any acquisitions for cash also fit into that category.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay. Again, so let's start with the idea that we like a strong capital position; it is part of our history. We have some instruments, some hybrids that are not going to fit into the capital regime going forward and at an appropriate time and it will take a process. We will look to a deal with those, eliminate some of those. And then the key will be how do you deploy your capital. And I think the first call on capital or one of the calls is to support the business. We think we are a growth business and acquisitions are a part of that, but also organic growth is also part of that, adding people, adding distribution capabilities and so forth.

I've said this publicly, the acquisitions that look most opportunistic or promising would be help build out our Wealth, Brokerage Retirement area. We like that business a lot. We have opportunities to gain share there and have that share be more relative to the share we have in the business compared to our deposit business. We have opportunities I think in the insurance distribution business. We could -- so there is just opportunities like that.

With respect to -- and then the rest should be -- once you get to your numbers -- should be returned to shareholders. It is their capital; it is your capital. And we will do that through -- there is an annual process now with our regulator and then we will also -- part of that is dividends and part of that is stock repurchase, which we have done some in the first half of the year. So you should expect that we have a strong bias to return capital to shareholders if we can't use it internally or don't need it.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Kind of on a separate question, when I think about that $125 million for the settlement, obviously Countrywide is something of an outlier, but even just using their kind of loss expectations, we still would have come up with a higher number. Just can you talk a little bit about how that settlement was reached and what it encompasses?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I won't talk about how it was reached, but I will talk about how it was -- first of all, think of that as securities. So you have got to separate reps and warranties, kinds of settlements and litigation from securities law. This related to securities issues and it is a settlement that involves most of the purchasers of those securities.

You first have to think -- so let's think about, first of all, securities and then think about reps and warranties. But everything starts with the quality of the portfolio. So you go to page 20 and look at that portfolio, look at the dichotomy, the differences, and remember, in our numbers, in the 7.2, is also -- some of the stuff is on balance sheet. Pick-A-Pay, which is in that, so if you took that out, it would even be a better number of what we sold.

So how I think about the reps and warranties side, the portfolio is different than our competitors, some of the riskiest or most problematic portfolios we have on balance sheet and we have dealt with the rep and warranty costs through our PCI process. So we have dealt with it that way. And in our -- $125 million is still a lot of money.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Yes, it certainly is. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, everyone. Just following up on Paul's questions, I guess. The C&I balances in particular were up nicely from the first quarter and I just wondered if you could talk more about what was driving that, any particular businesses? Was it more kind of large corporate or middle-market? Did you see line utilization tick up at all and any comments just in general on the competitive environment?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, good question. I think the first point is that we did not see much line utilization, which makes the growth that much more impressive from my perspective. That is number one. Number two, it was really broad-based across the entire wholesale platform. We saw it in commercial banking, real estate, corporate banking, capital finance, asset-based finance and international. So it was good that it wasn't just based upon line utilization and it was great that it was broad-based.

JOE MORFORD: And any comments on the competitive environment right now?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, it is competitive out there. I mean it is always going to be competitive. I think that depending upon the business, it is probably a little bit more competitive than others. It is probably a little bit more competitive at the high end and certainly the large corporate when there is investment banking opportunities, but it is certainly a very reasonable environment. We like our chances in this environment given how much we have grown customers over the last couple of years because we were there for people when things were a little bit tough.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. How are you? Three questions for you. On the Pick-A-Pay portfolio, do you continue to try to convert those loans to quote a more normal type of amortizing loan? Can you just speak to sort of ongoing restructuring efforts in that portfolio?

TIM SLOAN: Absolutely. I mean we are trying -- anytime we have an opportunity to modify a loan on a makes sense basis for a customer and for us, we are going to do it and we will continue to do that. I think that is one of the reasons why the portfolio continues to perform better than our initial expectations because we got at it very quickly.

NANCY BUSH: Do you have a sense of how -- I mean at what point will that portfolio essentially disappear? I mean is there still sort of a half-life on it at this point?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I would think of it that way. First of all, let me just say, on the loans that have an option to them, about 56%, so less than 60% overall today has the pay option, if you will and that is down substantially from where it was when we started out. Some of these customers -- these portfolios were built earlier. The average loan balance is in the $200,000 range for the ones that were not marked, if you will. About $300,000 for the ones that were marked so this will probably behave much like a real estate first mortgage portfolio as it is over time. So there will be a tail here.

TIM SLOAN: But you should think about it as a 10-year portfolio, Nancy.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Secondly, I know it is very early on in the expense reduction in the Project Compass days, but do you have any sense very roughly at this point how much of the expense reductions are going to come from sort of front-line branch activities versus non-branch?

TIM SLOAN: Well, very little is going to come from front-line branch activity and let me just go back. We have been working on Project Compass for a year and one of the reasons why we started a year ago is because we wanted to make sure that it was a bottoms-up process so it was focused on improving how our team members do their jobs and how they interact with our customers. It is not hard to reduce expenses at the expense of revenue and we are just not going to do that. We want to continue to grow revenue during this time period.

So when you think about Project Compass, I would think about it in a reduction and merger integration expenses. We are nearing the tail end of the merger. It is costing us between $400 million and $500 million a quarter. You think about the reduction in loss mitigation expenses and then it is going to become much more from staff and back-office type functions as opposed to the front line. We want to continue to invest in our front-line bankers and stores as we have done in the East, in our relationship managers in wholesale, in our financial advisers in Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement to take advantage of the opportunities we have out there.

JOHN STUMPF: I have been convinced for 25 years now that distribution matters. We were convinced of that when people were saying it didn't matter and it wouldn't be around anymore and now you are having people -- then everybody said, it doesn't matter, now you are getting some saying it doesn't. We think it does. And you should expect more stores, net stores, we are still opening stores, you should expect more people in the stores in the East. I mean that is -- we wouldn't be growing the accounts we are without it.

So that does not mean the store makeup might not change. We continue to innovate. I mean today we have about 5 billion retail transactions a year and 2.5 billion, half of those, are online. Another 300 million or 400 million are on mobiles. I mean so we continue to innovate and change in the store design make-up, what we do there, we continue to think about that, but distribution matters big time.

NANCY BUSH: Thank you. And finally, just, Tim, do you have an estimate of the tangible book value per share for Wells Fargo? I know that is a metric you guys don't think that much about or really present that much, but do you have the number and if so, can you just kind of walk us through how you come up with it?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, Nancy. Jim will give you a call on that.

JOHN STUMPF: We are so interested in Basel, we don't think of that.

NANCY BUSH: Well, unfortunately, the market still does from time to time.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, seriously, we will get you that number. I don't have it at the top -- I mean I'd --.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, John, Tim, how are you? Two quick questions. Do your litigation reserves take into account the civil money penalties that could be coming about from the Federal regulators and/or the AG settlements that may be coming?

TIM SLOAN: It is the best estimate we have for everything we know today.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. And then the final thing. John, my fear is that the AGs will look at the penalties or fines, whatever they want to do and they will prorate it based on originations or based on servicing book and not based on the quality of the servicing book, which you showed in your slides, is much better than others. Is my fear justified and if it is justified, do you balk and take your chances in court?

JOHN STUMPF: I think what we should think about that is that our portfolio is different from others and we are very proud of the prudence we had. We didn't do everything right, but the prudence we had and we tell the Wells Fargo story in plain English when we have those kind of discussions.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Are they listening?

JOHN STUMPF: We say it in plain English.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: I appreciate it. Thanks, John.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. Thank you very much. Very much appreciate all of you on the phone and we will see you next quarter at this time. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c173 : Financing Agreements | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110802e77j001p5
  


 HD
 Q1  2011 Wells  Fargo  and Co Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,315 words
   PD
20 April 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
Presentation

OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to Wells Fargo's first-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn today's call over to Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Celeste, and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and CFO, Tim Sloan, will review first-quarter results and answer your questions. Before we get started I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.

I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits.

In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplements available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim, and good morning and thanks for joining the call and your interest in Wells Fargo. We're extremely pleased with the performance of the Company in the first quarter with record earnings of $3.8 billion, up 48% from a year ago. Each of our business segments contributed to the overall profitability and the value of our diversified model was never more evident.

We generated broad-based growth across our business segments including revenue growth in businesses as diverse as commercial and corporate banking, investment banking, commercial real estate, international banking, wealth management, brokerage, auto dealer services, merchant and payroll services. We also achieved significant improvement in credit quality during the quarter and here too our improvement was broad-based across our portfolios.

These strong business results enabled us to continue to grow capital internally, producing an estimated Tier 1 common equity ratio under current Basel III capital proposals of 7.2%. We're extremely pleased that we were able to reward our loyal shareholders by increasing our quarterly dividend rate, by reinstating our stock repurchase program, and by calling $3.2 billion in trust preferred securities. As we just announced today, our Board authorized a second-quarter dividend of $0.12 per share.

As I've said many times, our merger with Wachovia is exceeding our own high expectations and has created, in our view, the most powerful platform in the industry. We completed the conversion of banking stores in Connecticut, New Jersey, Delaware and New York in the first quarter and late last week we completed the Pennsylvania integration. Including Pennsylvania, 74% of our banking customers are now on a single system.

We've had a positive customer response to the new store design and enhanced product offering while continuing to provide the same focus on providing excellent customer service. We are successfully meeting the financial needs of our customers throughout the east as evidenced by our cross sell now reaching 5.22 products per household, up from 5.02 just a year ago.

Checking accounts in North Carolina grew by 8.5% and in Florida by 12%. Sales of credit cards more than doubled in the east from a year ago. This success will help drive revenue growth for years to come as we continue to deepen the relationships of our existing customers and grow market share.

The steady progress in consolidating our Company across the nation is coming at a time of transition for our industry. Two changes that have been top-of-mind for investors are the fate of debit interchange revenue as part of Dodd-Frank and the recent regulatory and legal actions related to the mortgage servicing and foreclosures.

Regarding debit interchange, we believe lawmakers should take the necessary time to better understand the direct and indirect consequences of the proposed reduction in debit interchange fees on consumers, merchants and banks. Banks should be fairly compensated for the value that debit cards provide for merchants and the convenience they offer consumers.

Government price controls that wouldn't even enable banks to cover the cost of providing the services make no sense, particularly for consumers. We are hopeful that Congress will do the right thing, which is to delay the scheduled implementation until these issues are addressed.

As you are aware, federal banking regulators recently issued consent orders regarding foreclosure policies and practices. We take this issue seriously and are committed to complying with those orders. In addition, Wells Fargo supports the idea of national servicing standards suggested by the regulators which we hope will provide greater clarity for customers, servicers and investors.

We are not perfect, but Wells Fargo has been and always will be committed to doing the right thing for our customers and our country. We remain dedicated to helping our at-risk customers as evidenced by our over 665,000 active, trial and completed modifications we've done since the beginning of 2009.

Our outreach efforts continue to grow as we have now conducted 22 of our home preservation workshops across the country and we plan to hold twice as many this year as we did last year. We have met with over 20,000 customers face-to-face at these events and this effort has helped us complete almost twice as many modifications for customers as foreclosures since 2009.

We have been working with our regulators for an extended period on improving our servicing practices and we have already begun instituting meaningful changes to our processes. Last summer we adopted a single point of contact strategy to help customers seeking loan modifications. In the fourth quarter we established a uniform foreclosure affidavit for each judicial state subject to local rules.

So we've already started making some of the operational changes and incurring at some of the costs that will result from the expanded servicing responsibilities outlined in the consent order. While we continue to focus on helping our customers, our first-quarter results demonstrate that we're off to a great start in 2011.

The rest of the year holds additional opportunities as we work to convert the remaining Wachovia banking stores in the east, focus on improving our efficiency, invest our liquid assets wisely, and continue to lend to our commercial and consumer customers. At the same time we continue to reduce our exposure to higher risk portfolios, benefit from improved credit quality and build capital internally. Now let me turn this over to our CFO, Tim Sloan.

TIM SLOAN, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John, and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the slide presentation included in the quarterly supplement available on the Investor Relations section of the Wells Fargo website.

As you have seen from our press release today, we had a very strong quarter. Our record earnings were driven by continued improvement in credit quality, higher sales and deposit growth and lower expenses. These results generated strong returns with our return on asset increasing to 1.23%, the highest in three years, and our ROE up 103 basis points from the fourth quarter to 11.98%.

Liquidity remained very strong including cash and fed funds balances up $13.3 billion from the fourth quarter and we ended the quarter with our capital ratios at record highs, including our 7.2% Tier 1 common ratio estimate under current Basel III capital proposals. I'm going to highlight the drivers behind these strong results on the call today.

Moving to slide 3, our first-quarter EPS was $0.67, our highest quarterly EPS since the merger. This ties our previous record of $0.67 in the second quarter of 2007 when we had approximately 40% fewer diluted shares outstanding. Revenue in the first quarter of $20.3 billion was down $1.2 billion from the fourth quarter primarily due to lower mortgage banking revenue and lower net interest income.

The decline in net interest income reflects two fewer days in the quarter and an 11 basis point decline in the margin. Approximately half of the margin decline was due to a lower level of accelerated income from PCI loan resolutions and securities redemptions predominantly related to the legacy Wachovia positions, both of which tend to be uneven.

The remaining portion of the decline in margin was related to higher levels of lower yielding cash and short-term investments which reflect our disciplined interest rate management. Our cash and short-term investments averaged $101 billion and earned a yield of 29 basis points in the first quarter.

When thinking about the margin in an improving credit cycle we believe it is useful to look at risk-adjusted NIM. Our has improved for four straight quarters, ending the first quarter at 2.85%, up 10 basis points from the fourth quarter and 60 basis points from a year ago.

There were a number of selected items in the first quarter that I'd like to highlight as shown on slide 4. Merger integration expenses totaled $440 million in the quarter, down $94 million from the fourth quarter and consistent with our prior estimate for 2011 costs. Operating losses were $472 million in the quarter, substantially all from additional litigation accruals for foreclosure-related matters.

Incentive compensation and employee benefits, which are seasonally higher in the first quarter, were up $352 million from the fourth quarter. Reflecting continued improvement in credit quality across our consumer and commercial portfolios, we released $1 billion in reserves in the first quarter and would expect additional releases in the future absent significant deterioration in the economy.

Finally, our effective tax rate was 29.5% in the quarter, which included the benefit associated with the realization for tax purposes of a previously written down investment. Currently our estimated full-year 2011 effective tax rate is approximately 32%.

Let me now turn to key growth drivers across our diversified model. On slide 5 you can see that average loans increased $402 million from the fourth quarter driven by commercial loans which grew for the second consecutive quarter and increased 4% linked-quarter annualized.

Growth in this portfolio was broad-based including growth in commercial and corporate banking, asset-backed finance, commercial real estate, SBA lending and international. This growth reflected loans to new customers as well as increased line utilization, both positive signs of continued growth.

Average consumer loans declined from the fourth quarter, although the rate of decline has slowed for the past four quarters. There was growth in brokerage, private student lending and in auto. Auto dealer services had record originations in the first quarter with average loans up 14% linked-quarter annualized. This strong volume enabled us to increase our margins in this business while we continued to benefit from lower charge-offs and delinquencies.

While average loans increased slightly from the fourth quarter, period-end loans declined $6.1 billion, reflecting the expected runoff in our nonstrategic portfolios which declined $6.5 billion in the quarter. We are no longer originating these loans including legacy Wells Fargo financial indirect auto, liquidating home equity, legacy Wells Fargo financial debt consolidation, government student loans, Pick-a-Pay mortgages and other PCI loans. Other than these portfolios our core loan portfolios grew $371 million from the fourth quarter.

As you can see on slide 7, deposit growth was strong again this quarter with average core deposits up $37.7 billion, or 5% from a year ago, and up modestly from the fourth quarter. Average core deposits were 106% of average loans. Retail core deposits, which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrows, had stronger growth, up 7% annualized from the fourth quarter.

For the first time since the merger with Wachovia retail core deposits grew in the eastern markets as deposit balances are no longer facing the headwinds from the intentional runoff of $117 billion in high rate Wachovia CDs that have matured over the past two years. At the time of the merger approximately 41% of our retail core deposits in the eastern markets were in CDs compared with only 17% at the end of the first quarter. These high rate CDs now account for only 2% of our total core deposits.

Average checking and savings deposits were $723 billion, up 9% from a year ago and were 91% of average core deposits, up from 88% a year ago. We continue to see strong account growth across our franchise with net retail checking account growth of 7.4% including 7.9% growth in California, 8.5% growth in North Carolina, and 12% growth in Florida.

Our ability to generate such strong growth in states throughout our footprint reflects our unrelenting focus on providing industry-leading distribution, convenience and customer service which benefits our current customers and attracts new customers. Our continued strength in attracting low-cost deposits is reflected in our overall low deposit funding cost of 30 basis points in the first quarter.

Turning to non-interest income on slide 8, the $753 million linked-quarter decline in non-interest income in the quarter was almost entirely due to a $741 million decrease in mortgage banking fees. Mortgage fees reflected a $44 billion decline in origination volume in the quarter as higher mortgage rates reduced refi volume. These higher rates also increased the value of our servicing portfolio with net MSR results of $379 million and the ratio of MSRs to loan service for others at 92 basis points.

MSR valuation adjustments included a reduction of $214 million in the first quarter for higher projected servicing and foreclosure costs. It is important to note that factoring in servicing and foreclosure costs in our MSR value is not new for Wells Fargo. In fact, we reduced the value of our MSR by over $1 billion in 2009 and by over $1 billion in 2010 as servicing and foreclosure costs rose.

Let me highlight a few other key drivers of fee income this quarter. Service charges on deposit accounts were down 2% linked-quarter due to seasonality and down 24% from a year ago due to the impact of Regulation E. The Reg E impact this quarter along with the estimated 2011 impact from regulatory reform is in line with estimates we provided last quarter.

We continue to refine our estimate of lower debit interchange fees from Dodd-Frank. If implemented, which we now estimate will be approximately $325 million quarterly after-tax but before any offsets, this estimate also reflects the higher debit card transaction volume our consumer and small-business customers are generating.

Card fees were up 2% from the fourth quarter, which is strong considering the usual seasonality in first-quarter results. Year-over-year card fees were up 11% reflecting an 11% increase in debit card volume and a 6% increase in consumer credit card volume driven by new account growth and increased card usage by our existing customers. Trading gains were up 15% from the fourth quarter and 14% from a year ago reflecting strong sales and trading volume driven primarily by interest rates and commodities trading activity on behalf of our customers.

On slide 9 you'll see that expenses improved in the quarter, down $607 million from the fourth quarter. As I mentioned earlier, expenses in the first quarter included $440 million of merger integration costs, higher operating losses related to a build in our litigation reserves, and seasonally higher incentive compensation and employee benefit expenses.

We also continue to have higher loan resolution and loss mitigation costs of $792 million this quarter. The lower expenses we had in the first quarter does not yet reflect the benefits we expect to realize from Project Compass, our company-wide effort to reduce core expenses while not compromising future growth opportunities. While Compass is focused on reducing our core fixed cost, our total expenses in any given quarter will depend on many factors, including the variable costs associated with many of our businesses including residential mortgage originations.

Residential mortgage origination is one of the largest variable cost businesses at Wells Fargo, and it is important to consider the impact of expenses, not just revenue, on the bottom line. To manage this variable cost effectively we utilize a temporary workforce for a portion of our origination activities that we can expand or contract depending on current and expected origination and application volume. In order to ensure strong customer service and preparedness for rate volatility we manage these costs carefully and increases and decreases can lead or lag actual volume.

As the graph on slide 10 indicates, we ramped up production to support demand from the refi boom in the third and the fourth quarters of last year. Now we are in the process of resizing the organization to reflect current demand levels as well as -- as we always do in the mortgage cycles. This is not new for us.

Importantly, expenses can lag changes in volumes since we need to provide notice to temporary staff before the end of their assignments with us. As mortgage volume slowed in the first quarter we took actions to reduce retail fulfillment staff by over 4,500 people. However, at the end of the quarter over 2,000 were still on the payroll due to the required notification period. We expect to realize the expense savings from these reductions in the second quarter.

Turning to our segments, which start on slide 11 -- community baking earned $2.2 billion, up 13% from the fourth quarter with $12.6 billion in revenue. We continued to sell more products to more customers across our banking footprint, achieving a record combined cross sell of 5.79 products in the first quarter, up from 5.6 a year ago.

This growth reflects continued increases in the west with cross sell reaching a record 6.21 products while the east grew cross sell from 5.02 a year ago to 5.22 this quarter. Cross sell improvement reflects record sales with core product sales up 16% in the west reaching 3 million sales in a single month for the first time ever. We also continue to increase sales in the east by introducing new sales and service practices as well as new products.

Let me highlight a few examples. Approximately 33% of households in the west have a Wells Fargo credit card compared with less than 14% in the East. In the first quarter credit card sales in the east more than doubled from a year ago. In the first quarter partner referrals in the East that resulted in a sale, including products such as insurance, mortgage and merchant services, were more than six times a year ago.

Wholesale banking earned $1.7 billion on $5.5 billion in revenue in the first quarter. Loans grew 9% linked-quarter annualized with broad-based growth in commercial banking, international, commercial real estate, asset-backed finance, government banking and corporate banking. Loan growth was driven by new customer activity and an increase in line utilization, up 50 basis points from the fourth quarter.

Linked-quarter revenue was down primarily due to lower loan resolution income in the Wachovia portfolio. This decline was expected since we have already recognized the benefits from the largest loans in that portfolio. Many businesses within wholesale banking grew revenue linked quarter by adding new customers and continuing to focus on cross-selling. These included fixed-income sales and trading, equity sales and trading, investment solution, commercial mortgage servicing, equipment finance and real estate capital markets.

Let me give you a couple of quick examples of the momentum building in the first quarter. Commercial mortgage servicing won six master servicing deals in the first quarter compared with 13 for all of 2010.

Wells Fargo Capital Finance arranged and syndicated the largest transaction in their history with a $1.8 billion refinancing for Hertz. Investment banking revenue with corporate and commercial customers increased 68% from the first quarter last year due to attractive capital markets conditions and continued success in selling investment banking products to our wholesale customer base.

Wealth brokerage and retirement had a very strong quarter, earning $339 million, up $142 million from the fourth quarter. Revenue was $3.2 billion, up 4% from the fourth quarter. Revenue growth was driven by strong asset-based fees with managed account assets up 7%; this growth benefited from the strongest quarterly net client asset flows since the merger. Expenses were down 2% from the fourth quarter resulting in positive operating leverage. Average core deposits were a record $125 billion, up $4 billion from the fourth quarter.

WBR results are already benefiting from the systems conversion completed early in the first quarter. Over 15,000 financial advisors in all 50 states are now on one common platform. Loan originations by financial advisors are up 56% from the first quarter 2010. Cross sell continued to improve to 9.82 products per WBR customer, up from 9.67 products a year ago.

Our results this quarter continue to benefit from significant improvement in credit quality, as shown on slide 14. Charge-offs declined again for the fifth consecutive quarter, down $629 million from the fourth quarter and 41% below the fourth-quarter 2009 peak.

Non-performing loans declined for the second consecutive quarter, down $1.3 billion from last quarter. Provision expense was $2.2 billion, down $779 million from the fourth quarter including a $1 billion reserve release. Absent a significant deterioration of the economy, we believe future reductions in the allowance -- we can expect future reductions in the allowance for loan losses.

The allowance for credit losses was $22.4 billion at the end of the quarter and we also have $12.9 billion of non-accretable difference to absorb losses in our PCI portfolio with the non-accretable difference equal to 29.6% of remaining PCI unpaid principal balance.

The key credit metrics highlighted on slide 15 point to continued improvement. NPAs were down 5% from the fourth quarter, our second straight quarterly decline. Non-performing loans declined $1.3 billion from the fourth quarter with reductions in commercial and industrial, commercial real estate construction and each of the consumer loan categories.

Total non-performing inflows were down 11% from the fourth quarter. This is the second consecutive quarter of reduced inflows which is a key driver of our NPA improvement. We had the fifth consecutive quarterly decline in loans 90 days past due and still accruing and early-stage delinquencies also declined from the fourth quarter, the second consecutive quarter of improvement.

This improvement in credit quality in part reflects the ongoing balance decline in nonstrategic portfolios, down a total of $64 billion or 34% since the merger with Wachovia. The PCI portfolio continued to perform better than expected. Due to improved expected cash flows in this portfolio, largely Pick-a-Pay and resolved commercial loans, we have released a total of $5.5 billion of non-accretable difference, $1.5 billion of which has been recognized in earnings since the merger from loan resolutions and most of the other $4 billion will be recognized through accretable yield over the life of the loans.

This benefit has been partially offset by reserve builds netting to $3.9 billion improvement over original expectations. While the non-accretable balance has absorbed $28 billion of losses related to PCI loans, we have $12.9 billion of non-accretable difference remaining to cover 29.6% of remaining PCI unpaid principal balance. As we said at the time of the merger, we wanted to ensure that our portfolio marks were accurate and we are pleased with the performance so far.

As we have done over the last few quarters, we updated the information on our mortgage servicing portfolio as well as our repurchase demands on slide 17. The delinquency and foreclosure rate continued to decline to 7.22% in the first quarter, the lowest in two years and down significantly from a peak of 8.96% in fourth quarter 2009. Once again, based on the recent publicly available data as of 12/31, our rate was the lowest among large bank peers.

We believe these results reflect the relative strength of the Wells Fargo portfolio and the sustained improvement in the industry. Our outstanding agency repurchase demands declined for the third consecutive quarter with the number and dollar volume of demand outstandings down over 50% from the second quarter 2010 peak. The most problematic vintages in terms of losses continue to be 2006 through 2008, but new demands in those vintages have dropped significantly from a year ago.

New non-agency repurchase demands based on loan count have declined for four consecutive quarters and we only had $69 million in total non-agency repurchases in the first quarter. Total repurchased losses declined substantially in the first quarter to $331 million, down $175 million or 35% from the fourth quarter as repurchase volume declined. We added $249 million to the repurchase reserve this quarter, down $464 million in the fourth quarter.

As John spoke earlier on the call when he addressed the regulatory consent orders, and as highlighted on slide 18, we have already made many improvements to our servicing and foreclosure practices. As we have responded to changes in the housing market and strengthened our servicing practices we have added over 10,000 team members to our home preservation staff, bringing the total to 16,000 team members. We plan to add or reassign approximately 1,000 additional team members over the next year with much of these costs already reflected in our current MSR value.

As we disclosed in last quarter's release, estimating the expenses we will incur to service our portfolio is a routine part of our quarterly MSR valuation process. We reduced the value of our MSR asset by $214 million this quarter due to increased servicing costs and have reduced the asset value by over $1 billion in each of the past two years as servicing and foreclosure costs have risen.

As shown on slide 19, capital ratios continue to increase with strong internal capital generation. Tier 1 common grew to 8.9%, up over 60 basis points from the fourth quarter and up over 180 basis points from a year ago. Under current Basel III capital proposals we estimate our Tier 1 common ratio grew to 7.2% this quarter.

Our other capital ratios continued to grow as well with Tier 1 capital increasing to 11.5% and Tier 1 leverage to 9.3%. These ratios were reduced by approximately 30 basis points in the quarter as we called $3.2 billion of trust preferred securities that under regulatory capital guidelines no longer qualified as capital once we gave notice of redemption.

Our capital levels continue to demonstrate the ability of Wells Fargo to generate capital organically and, as it relates to Basel III standards, the benefit of our diversified lower risk model relative to our large bank peers.

As John mentioned at the start of the call, our strong capital position enabled us to begin to return more capital to our shareholders. We took several actions that were contemplated in the capital plan we submitted to the Federal reserve including increasing our quarterly dividend rate to $0.12 a share, which is just the first step toward returning to a more normalized payout ratio of 30% over time.

I would also highlight that we not only increased our quarterly rate, we actually paid this higher rate in the first quarter in full to our shareholders and the Board has already authorized the same payment for the second-quarter dividend. We also increased our share repurchase authority by 200 million shares starting this month and starting this month we began to buy back shares. We also expect to call additional trust preferred securities that will no longer count as Tier 1 capital under both Dodd-Frank and Basel III.

In summary, we had a very strong quarter. We are very pleased with our record earnings reflecting growth across our businesses, the strength of our franchise is reflected in the continuing growth in deposits, in high-quality loan originations and deepening customer relationships with record cross sell. The quality of our loan portfolio has resulted in continued reductions in charge-offs, NPAs, and early-stage delinquencies across our portfolios.

Internal capital generation remains strong, enabling us to return more capital to our shareholders. Liquidity remains at a very high level. We believe that our franchise remains very well positioned for the future. I'd like to now open the call up for questions.

Questions and Answers

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Joe Morford, RBC Capital.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL: Good morning, everyone. I guess, Tim, maybe to start, could you talk a bit more about Project Compass and how you're going about that and more specifically what are the goals or opportunities for the program and when we might start seeing -- should see that start to flow through in the numbers?

TIM SLOAN: Sure, I'd be happy to, Joe. We started talking about Project Compass in the fourth quarter and in the fourth quarter we mentioned that we were going to provide more guidance and more detailed guidance in the summer. And the reason for that is that we look at Project Compass as a very important effort on behalf of the Company and we look and we structured it as a bottoms up process.

What we want to do is make sure that we can improve our efficiency and become more cost effective without a reduction in revenue. And so we want to start from the bottom up and talk to all of our folks or as many of our folks as we can that are closest to the customers, figure out what we can do to improve their ability to deliver better products and services more efficiently to the customers. So in terms of outlook and expectations, we will provide more detail this summer.

JOE MORFORD: Okay and then just one follow-up.

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, let me add this. This is about getting clearly more efficient. But it's also becoming more nimble. We want to be able to grow revenues faster, and we think by simplifying some of the things that we do that don't affect customers actually can help our team spend more time with customers and enhance our revenue growth and become more relevant to our customers.

So it really has -- yes, it does have an expense feature and that is going to be an important part of it, but it is all about growing the business.

JOE MORFORD: Great. And then just a follow-up. It sounded like from your comments that your expectation for the impact of the Durbin Amendment is (technical difficulty)?

TIM SLOAN: That is correct. Last quarter our estimate was $250 million after-tax, and we have increased that estimate to about $325 million a quarter after-tax, primarily because of higher volume in the underlying product.

JOHN STUMPF: As you grow checking accounts, of course, we are growing them as fast as I've seen in the experience I've had with this company for many, many years. It becomes a bigger issue, of course.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning, Tim. I was wondering if you -- can you give us any feel for how much in dollars a reduction of 4500 FTEs in mortgage could help the mortgage expense area.

TIM SLOAN: No, we don't have that detail on a per-person basis.

JOHN MCDONALD: But it is something that we should see move the needle over the next couple quarters. That alone should move --?

TIM SLOAN: Well, yes. John, in terms of timing as we mentioned, we ended the fourth quarter with a good pipeline of mortgages that we needed to underwrite and close. So we closed those through the first quarter. So we did not begin the reduction in that staff until late in the quarter. So you should expect that the reduction in the origination staff should be completed by the end of the second quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: But in terms of magnitude, it's something that we should see move the needle of your overall expense numbers?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, it's a meaningful number for the mortgage company, absolutely. And think of it, John, these are processors and fulfillment kind of people. So think about -- and you can do the math probably as well as I can. The average compensation, pick a number and you can do it. These are people that, as Tim mentioned, because of the Safe Act they're actually on payroll as temporaries, and we have a different process in how we reduce us having to give them a couple months notice. So, yes, it's a meaningful number.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Last quarter you had a slide entitled Expense Discipline that showed the sense of cyclically elevated expenses and where you thought they could go to in 2011 and 2012 and I don't see that in today's packet. Do those thoughts still hold about those items that you talked about last quarter?

TIM SLOAN: John, they do. I think that last quarter we had a few line items in there, one was integration costs which we provided some detail for this quarter which were -- and the $440 million was within the range that we talked about for 2011. We continue to be pleased with the rate of loan resolution and loss mitigation cost reduction.

We haven't broken out Wells Fargo Financial residual cost and we're not going to do that anymore because all those portfolios have now been spread across the rest of the Company and it's not necessarily material. But we still feel confident about those ranges that we provided in that slide in the fourth-quarter deck.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, okay. And then in terms of Project Compass, you said on the second-quarter call we could expect you to discuss that in a little more detail. And should we think about you announcing some specific targets around that?

TIM SLOAN: I don't know if we're going to announce specific targets beyond, for example, the type of guidance that we provided in that fourth-quarter page. But you will see more detail this summer. We'd like to try to put it together by the time of the second-quarter earnings announcement, but it may be a little bit later than that.

JOHN MCDONALD: But you might do something like that former slide where you gave some potential quarterly expense progressions?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, I think that you should expect something like that.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. My last question is just on the liquidity position, Tim. Why are the cash and fed funds portfolios increasing so much? And what will lead you to start investing some of that cash?

TIM SLOAN: Well, the primary driver for the increase in our liquidity is our deposit growth. As we mentioned, the deposit growth continues to be beyond our expectations and we're really, really pleased with that growth, particularly, as we mentioned, in the eastern markets where we're completing the integration and consolidation of the Wachovia stores.

But in terms of the timing and decisioning around how and when we might invest that cash in other assets is going to be a function of growth. Clearly we want to make sure that we can meet all of our customers' needs in terms of loan demand. And then secondly, we're hoping to invest those funds as interest rates go up.

We continue to believe that we're more likely to see interest rates go up than go down and we want to be very careful about investing a lot of funds in this kind of environment, because we don't want to find ourselves a year or two from now having invested at a low point in the cycle.

JOHN STUMPF: And, John, I view this as a real asset of the Company. Just think about it, we're growing deposits and this liquidity is -- we have $100 billion or so invested at 29 basis points. Just think of when we do employ that and in this point in the cycle this is not atypical as a recovery happens. You have uneven loan growth, corporate balance sheets have never been in better shape, consumers paying down debt.

So it's just going to take us, and it's going to take the industry some time to -- and customers some time to borrow and start to draw on lines and we're seeing some of that on the corporate side, but this is -- I view it as good news, the potential here.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: If you could just talk about the NIM trajectory going forward. There might be a little bit of benefit from calling the higher cost true-ups, but how should we think about some of the other moving pieces?

TIM SLOAN: In terms of the direction of the NIM?

MATT O'CONNOR: Correct.

TIM SLOAN: Well, it's going to depend. It's going to depend on loan growth and the mix of that loan growth. As we mentioned, we saw nice loan growth in our wholesale groups; we haven't seen as much loan growth yet in the consumer portfolio. It's going to depend on the rate of decline in our nonstrategic portfolios which, as we mentioned, were down about $6 billion for the quarter. It's going to depend on our decisions, as we were just talking about, related to investing the treasury portfolio. And then it's going to depend on deposit growth.

I really can't give you a specific direction in terms of the NIM. I will reinforce, though, that we don't think about running this Company based upon the NIM. We think about running the Company based upon making sure that we can meet our customers' needs. What comes out of that is -- one of the measures is the NIM. But I can assure you we're not managing the Company based upon NIM.

JOHN STUMPF: And the other thing we -- I know you know this, but we for the big bank peers, we have the best NIM in the industry by some distance. And there is some impact as to how we recognize the PCI resolutions. But I think Tim said we don't run the Company based on that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Well, maybe just to rephrase the question. I mean the net interest income dollars came down a bit quarter to quarter. And you pointed to a couple of things that seem like they might be one-time or lumpy. And I'm just trying to get a sense of what you might be thinking from here in terms of some of these moving pieces. Or do we just look at this as a run rate and it will all be driven by loan growth from here?

TIM SLOAN: Well, again, the current NIM might be the run rate, we'll continue to watch that as we go through each quarter. We do expect that the PCI loan resolution effect within the NIM is going to be lumpy and it has been ever since the first quarter of 2009.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then just separately, the mortgage originations were down pretty similar to what we're seeing for the overall industry. But if we look at the loan production revenue, that might have come down a little bit more than I would have expected given the decline in originations. And I appreciate the gain on sale came down a little bit this quarter, but I thought it was still pretty solid. So wondering what might have driven down the origination revenue a bit more than the originations there.

TIM SLOAN: Well, the gain on sale margins declined in the quarter and that's just a question of the spread in the loans. You saw the refinance -- as you pointed out, you saw refinance volume going down, but also the gain on sale went down because spreads went down.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, good morning. So just a question on PPOP, I mean you've got a couple of big levers that you have in the expense line with merger and integration charges coming down and the mortgage line coming down. Obviously you're going to reinvest some of that into Project Compass. On the top line you've got the rebranding of Wells Fargo going on in the entire East Coast.

Could you just give us a sense as to how you are thinking about managing all those levers as we go through the next couple of quarters here, maybe even in 2012? I want to make sure I understand how you're thinking about doing these reinvestments and timing it with what you hope to get from cross sell.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Betsy, let me take that. So you think about the Company, there's a lot of stuff going on right now, so we want to complete the Wachovia merger and do that exceedingly well. And I couldn't be happier with how that has gone.

Secondly, let's not forget the improvement in credit quality here. This was, in some people's minds, a big bet on credit. And we thought we did a good job analyzing it up front and the proof in the pudding is in the eating, as they say. And we sure like the results. In fact, if you look at the numbers, we've had better news there than we had planned for and we want it to stay that way and we're very pleased with that.

So those expenses to complete the merger will largely extinguish at the end of the year as we finish that integration. We're on schedule, we're on budget and we have a plan -- I think we have five or six more events to finish the eastern integration. So think of that as on schedule and largely in place and as a passage of time those will happen.

With respect to credit quality, we expect that we will see improvement and we will get the numbers we're looking for. We put a lot of people -- added a lot of people in this Company, as the industry has, to serve customers who are having challenges. On the mortgage side for example, we've seen dramatic improvement in our past due.

In fact, we are for the larger servicers an industry-leading position. We've gone from almost 9% delinquency of our servicing portfolio of all of our mortgages down to just a little over 7% now. That's a 20% improvement. That's a huge move in five quarters. There are real people attached to that and we'll be able to see improvement over time as that happens.

And even with what's going to happen in some of the new servicing standards, there will probably be as much reassignment of some people as anything, but we should see the improvement there.

Then with respect to Compass, when you have an opportunity that we have to get rid of some expense that doesn't add to customer value, to make us more efficient, more relevant, we expect those things are going to happen and we'll give you more information on that. So there's a variety of things going on.

In the meantime we're growing accounts, we're growing households. In the middle-market and wholesale side we're growing the business there. We have a wonderful global financial institutions group and we're doing a lot of business there. The wealth management business is growing. So there are lots of good things that are happening, but at a time in the cycle right now it's uneven. So that's to be expected.

But I'm encouraged that during this period of time now we're doing all things that we can manage to make a difference for the long-term prosperity of this Company.

BETSY GRASECK: (Inaudible) on the East Coast integration where you've rebranded to date how the cross sell is tracking relative to expectations?

JOHN STUMPF: It's better, it's better. In fact, I can't tell you -- the only thing we didn't expect is how many pictures people would be taking of the stagecoach in Manhattan. If we could have figured out how to -- how about if (inaudible) for a picture, we'd even -- but no, Betsy, it's been much better. In fact, as you recall when we did the economics of the merger, we never put in the revenue synergies. But we had expectations because we saw it in other places. But I can tell you, cross sell is growing faster now than it has since we started measuring this some 15 or 20 years ago.

BETSY GRASECK: When do you think (multiple speakers)?

JOHN STUMPF: I can't be more encouraged. And I think you're going to see that accelerate now because all of a sudden people are seeing the signs. They're seeing the connectivity.

BETSY GRASECK: And when do you see that hitting the top-line do you think?

JOHN STUMPF: I would say it's -- it takes a while for that to run through. Typically when you add products, arithmetically the profitability grows geometrically. So you're going to start seeing that I think accelerate in the next number of quarters, that's when that comes through.

But if you think about the east, and again I want to go back there one more time. On the cross sell in consumer, small numbers times big numbers equals big numbers. We went from just a little over 5 products per household to 5.22 in one year. That's huge. We used to add 3 or 4 basis points per year; adding 20 basis points is -- you just don't see stuff like that.

BETSY GRASECK: Then just lastly on the buybacks, when would you start the repurchase? Are you waiting for SIFI buffer discussions or are you good to go before that?

JOHN STUMPF: No. No, we're buying.

TIM SLOAN: Betsy, we started buying shares back this quarter from our benefits plans which we were allowed to do. And you should expect that we'll, as we've done historically, buy back shares at opportune times. We're going to take advantage of the fact that we've got that authority so we can deliver more returns for our shareholders.

JOHN STUMPF: In fact we are growing -- we're sitting at the highest capital levels I ever recall in this Company. We're growing capital very rapidly. Look at what's happened just the last quarter or the last year. And the one thing I think that Basel did get right is the way they looked at risk. And this Company runs with a whole lot less risk than our big bank competitors. So, when you look at our capital ratios and the reduction that comes from the Basel III side, it's a fraction of other companies. And that's really important.

BETSY GRASECK: When does your blackout period end for the quarter? When do you start repurchasing?

TIM SLOAN: Later today.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thanks.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Some of the banks that released earnings this week talked about how they saw a significant slowdown in borrower's interest in the second half of the quarter, probably most likely March driven by events globally, Japan and whatnot. Can you just talk a little bit about what you're seeing out there in a global sense out there for borrower demand?

TIM SLOAN: We didn't see any significant decline in our commercial corporate real estate customer borrowing levels toward the second half of the quarter. And in fact our loan volume for international was up. As John mentioned, we have a very, very strong financial institutions business on an international basis that the combined company has been in for over 100 years, it's called our GFITS business. And we saw really -- we saw good demand in the first quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: I would describe loans more as a re-regionalization, if you will, or more product type or the kind of business you're in. If you're in the commodities business, that business is doing quite well. We saw activity there. On the other side, if you're on the consumer side, consumers are paying down debt, so it depends on the kind of business -- the kind of consumer or the kind of customer, but because of our national franchise, because we're in so many different businesses serving customers, we see a variety of things, but we did not see that phenomenon that others talked about.

PAUL MILLER: And then on the side of -- on the jumbo market, I mean there have been some banks that have reported some increases in jumbo loans on their balance sheets. Have you seen the jumbo market improve, especially since some of the discussions with Treasury where they want to lower the conforming loan rate?

TIM SLOAN: No, not in reaction to the -- to any changes that are coming from the Treasury. As you can imagine given our platform, we originate a large number of jumbo loans and we're continuing to keep some on the balance sheet. We didn't keep as many on the balance sheet in the first quarter as we did in the fourth quarter just because the volume was so high in the third and fourth quarter. If you look at our individual business line segments you can -- we can say that within our wealth management and brokerage business that a good portion of the loan growth was related to jumbo loans.

JOHN STUMPF: The jumbo volume is more connected to just the activity of the marketplace.

TIM SLOAN: Yes.

PAUL MILLER: Hey, thanks a lot, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. I'm stuck on page 28 of the presentation, PCI accretable yield.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay.

MIKE MAYO: A very technical question -- did you shorten the amortization period for the accretable yield grow forward?

TIM SLOAN: No.

JOHN STUMPF: On --?

TIM SLOAN: No.

JOHN STUMPF: So there are different terms or different time frames depending on the type of loan. I think it was -- consumer was something like nine years and commercial is something like a couple of years, but --.

MIKE MAYO: But the gist of my question is why did accretable yield contribute more this quarter than last quarter?

TIM SLOAN: The first quarter included a gain of about $150 million from the sale of a pool of consumer real estate loans.

JOHN STUMPF: So, Mike, if you look at Pick-a-Pay, just last quarter we had the average life was 9.4 years, this quarter we thought it would be 9.3 years, which we're one more quarter into it. And on the commercial side we were at 1.8 years weighted life of that portfolio and now we're at two years. So they're largely unchanged. And Tim had the answer for that.

MIKE MAYO: Maybe if I can back up a little bit. When I look at the end of period balance for the accretable yield roll forward, from the third to the fourth quarter that stayed about flat, and from the fourth to the first quarter that was $800 million less. So does that mean you had an $800 million benefit in net interest income? And if so what does that mean for the future quarters?

TIM SLOAN: No, Mike, we can provide you with -- I'll let Jim follow up and provide you with more detail. But you shouldn't expect that the results for the first quarter are going to have any material impact on what you should expect for the future quarters. As John pointed out, the duration in our expectations is pretty similar to the fourth quarter.

MIKE MAYO: All right, yes, I can follow up off line. Just another technical accounting question. So it seems like your guidance for the tax rate stays about the same at 32% for the year, but you had an adverse decision in the Court of Appeals in Washington, DC on Friday.

TIM SLOAN: Right.

MIKE MAYO: And so how much might you have to pay to the IRS and why doesn't that get reflected in your tax guidance for the year (multiple speakers)?

TIM SLOAN: Yes, good question, Mike. We were obviously very disappointed in the decision. We originated the underlying leases in the early part of the last decade and what's ironic is that both state and federal governments were very -- very much encouraged us and encouraged those products at that time. We felt very strongly about our position; obviously the Court felt differently. But we were fully reserved for that decision. So there's not going to be an impact from that decision this year.

MIKE MAYO: Okay, that's helpful. And then lastly, this is a very sensitive question but it's a question that still comes up in a lot of my discussions. And that is why did the prior CFO leave the firm? Can you add anything to that topic?

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, that is so yesterday. I mean we've got a terrific CFO, we're moving forward, I can't be happier with how things are going here and we're looking to the future.

MIKE MAYO: All right, well, I'll look forward to working with you, Tim.

TIM SLOAN: Thanks, Mike.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning, guys. As I look at the operating expense base currently -- and I know there have been a few questions related to this, but just trying to sort of run through it mathematically -- I see $440 million of integration cost, $472 million of operating losses, you talked about potential benefits from reducing the headcount on the mortgage side of the business and then also Project Compass, so those four things.

I don't know what they all would quite add up to, but it strikes me that you could potentially be running at a quarterly expense run rate of $12 billion or less by 2012. Is that a reasonable conclusion on my part?

TIM SLOAN: Well, based on the math that you just described you can get to that number. I think, Ed, the way that we think about our expenses are going to be much more a reflection of what our revenue looks like and the mix in our businesses. Some of our businesses are more efficient and have less expenses per dollar of revenue than others.

I know you wish I could give you a more defined answer, but I'm not able to do that. It's really going to be much more an effect on the mix of the business than -- as well as our progress on expenses. But there's no question that we're going to make progress.

ED NAJARIAN: Let me ask you a different question -- let me ask it a slightly different way. I might come up with sort of my own math on those numbers. Would you expect the underlying growth, sort of excluding those four things, in the franchise -- the underlying expense growth in the franchise to be fairly minimal in '12 versus '11? So if these things come out there's not going to be a big offset from underlying core expense growth or will there be?

TIM SLOAN: Well, again, when you think about -- when we think about core expense growth we think about it based upon the opportunities we have to grow our businesses. For example, we've been adding new salespeople and relationship managers in wholesale banking for the last year. So would that affect core expense growth? You bet it would.

The reason we've done it is because we've got opportunities to bring new people onto the platform. We've done that -- we've done the same in our wealth management business because there are terrific financial advisors to bring out, that would affect the core expenses too. So I appreciate the difference in how you asked your question, but I'm afraid you're going to get the same answer.

JOHN STUMPF: Ed, here's what I think about that. I think about the 275,000 or 280,000 team members we have, there's a group that are servicing -- a group that sell products and services to our customers, there's a team that services that and there's a team that supports that. And we want to make sure that we have the business aligned around our customers in a way that we can react to customer opportunities and to company opportunities and not be burdened with additional expense that makes it more difficult for us to do that business, that we're slower.

So for example, how many data centers do we need, and how many different customer information files do we need? How many different places do we need to do the same business and how many different divisions? So those are the kinds of things that we're going to -- that we are attacking, that we are -- and it's a good time to do it because now we're almost done with the Wachovia merger and we can see how it is to operate in this new larger platform.

But as Tim said, we don't -- this is hopefully going to help us accelerate growth. So we're surely going to -- and take the mortgage company, for example. If all of a sudden we get a housing boom we're going to want to add team members to capture that growth. So -- and I know you appreciate that, but that's how we think about it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, okay, that's helpful. And then to follow up, you've talked about how you already have been repurchasing some stock, you can get back in there this afternoon and start buying back more. Is it reasonable for us to think that you're going to repurchase or get close to repurchasing that whole 200 million share authorization this year?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, it's going to be a function of how we view the stock price more than anything. We're going to repurchase stock based upon the capital plan that we submitted to the fed. And it's going to be based upon that, it's going to be based upon what the stock price looks like and it's going to be based upon liquidity. But I wouldn't necessarily conclude that we're going to buy 200 million shares next month or by the end of the year. We might, but it's really going to depend on market conditions and our performance.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, and then just one final question. Any insight on when down the road -- I know this is sort of tough to look out, but you might get to the point where you're no longer incurring a significant mortgage repurchase cost and you can sort of play out the remaining repurchases through the existing reserve? Is that several quarters away or is that more like a couple years away?

TIM SLOAN: You know what, I don't have a good answer for you. My crystal ball is a little bit cloudy there. What we do know is that things are improving faster than we would have expected three months ago, six months ago and nine months ago. Again, I think that's a reflection of the fact that our portfolio, both what we own and we service for ourselves and what we service for others, is just a higher quality than everybody else's.

So I think that the industry, while it continues to be under stress, I think when you look at Wells Fargo, we're just a little bit different. But I really couldn't tell you exactly when it's going to go away, but it sure did improve this quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: I think if you think about how that portfolio was built and how it performs and you look at what the risks are in the industry, I think the biggest risks are in the private side. And if you look at our portfolio, a small percentage of our servicing is private and about half of that doesn't carry a lot of the traditional reps and warranties. And it's evidenced by the kind of repurchase we've been seeing.

When you have 7% of your portfolio, 7.22% past-due versus some of our competitors had 10%, 12% or even 14%, that's a huge difference. Secondly, if you have 7% of your portfolio of private, which have half of that (inaudible) traditionals, it makes the math such that it's not something that I spend a lot of time worrying about.

Now if we have a double dip, if we have another whole thing that I don't expect all bets are off. But I sure like the trajectory and the trend. You can't argue with that. I couldn't be happier there.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER: Yes, I'm wondering with regard to what's required of you under the consent orders for mortgage servicing, I don't care so much about the existing stock of problems that we're working through, but does it change the underlying economics of the mortgage servicing business going forward? I mean does it structurally impact your costs and can you recover those costs and pricing and how on a going forward basis can you price the product effectively to reflect those costs?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we like the mortgage servicing business, it's been a good business for a lot of years, it's still a good business. Part of what we get in that business is the servicing fee, the 25 basis points. We get a higher propensity when those customers refinance if you refinance with us. And we also sell those customers other products and services. So we like that a lot.

As Tim mentioned in his comments, with respect to the existing -- what we know about the changes that have come about through either legislation or through the performance of the portfolio, we have priced it into our MSR. So and what we don't know we actually put a reserve up. We added to substantially all of the litigation charge we took was related to mortgage for this quarter.

But going forward I think is where your comment or the biggest part of your question is -- it's going to be one or two things -- either we're going to get paid for it and we're going to be in the business, or if you can't get paid for it people will go do something else with their money. And this is a necessary and important part of the mortgage business. And quality matters.

And others might have a different view because they have a much more troubled portfolio. Ours doesn't have that. And it's a business that I suspect will be part of a discussion as in the future GSEs get reformatted or we figure out what life is like in the future and my guess is that it will continue to be a good business for those who do it well.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: So, I mean I guess what you're saying is I mean the ultimate business model will take years to figure out and shake out. In the meantime we're kind of stuck with a 25 basis point servicing fee and the only way to protect yourself is by being very, very careful on underwriting, right?

TIM SLOAN: Well, I wouldn't describe it as being stuck with a 25 basis point servicing fee. I mean this is a very profitable business for us. We like this business and even with the incremental cost that we've incurred for servicing and foreclosure it's still a profitable business for us. And so, as John mentioned, we like it.

We think we're good at it. In the past we've made some mistakes; we fix them when we find them. But we think we're very good at it. And again, our servicing business is also a reflection of the quality of the portfolio. And a quality of the portfolio that we service is the highest of our big bank peers. So overall we like the business.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, how are you? This is sort of an add-on to Chris's question I guess. Given what is going on in the mortgage business generally, all these proposals or thoughts that are sort of swirling around Fannie and Freddie, etc., etc., your Company has always been, and rightfully so, regarded as the major mortgage player among the large banks.

And that has always helped your stock I think, but in the past few weeks or couple months I think your stock has begun to be sort of negatively impacted by this speculation around mortgage. John, could you just give us your view of how you see the mortgage business shaking out over the long term with regard to Fannie and Freddie and how it may impact the relative size of the business for you?

JOHN STUMPF: I was hoping you'd ask Tim that question.

NANCY BUSH: Well, he can answer it.

JOHN STUMPF: I'm just teasing, Nancy. It's an important question because for most families, the home purchase is the most significant financial transaction they'll ever have. It affects the whole family, the whole family gets involved in it and it's an important thing and we want to make sure we get it right.

I give credit to the Administration and to members of Congress, it's now becoming part of the active discussion and debate in Washington. As you saw, there were three proposals. Wells Fargo has opined and we've made some of our own comments known about, and I actually had an article not long ago in the Fortune magazine, about some views about this.

So, I'm hopeful -- let's just put it that way -- I'm hopeful when we get all done with this, whatever that time frame is, and it will take -- probably won't happen this month or this year. It's going to take some time because there are very divergent views on this. That mortgage money will be available for consumers; it will be a available broadly at prices that make sense but also reflect the risk.

Whatever the government's involvement is ought to be explicit and they ought to get paid for it. The private sector ought to pay a large role in this. And this whole idea about risk retention ought to reflect the fact that everybody who touches a mortgage ought to be interested in making sure it's a good mortgage. So whatever happens there. So I think when you get all said and done I'm optimistic we'll get this right.

NANCY BUSH: Well, you were -- correct me if I'm wrong, but you were a supporter of the QRM guidelines or suggestions as they came out from the FDIC, is that correct?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, but we have a view that -- we've got to be careful about QRM to this extent that we've not punished the mortgages that don't make it into the QRM. So if you start to broaden the QRM view to qualify residential mortgages when you have one that does not qualify it could be so price different, in other words more expensive, that you've got to be careful there.

And the QRM is too broad, not enough discipline around that. Then you're going to get more people trying to force things into the QRM to get around the retention side. So I mean this is just one of many, many issues.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, John, Tim, how are you? Tim, a quick question. I want to go back to John McDonald's question and ask it a little differently. On the 100 or so billion dollars in cash and short-term investments, when the new world order is set in Basel III and liquidity, what do you think a run rate for that type of cash and the type of balance will be? Will it be half that?

I'm trying to figure out how much revenue you're leaving off the table, if you will, by investing $100 billion and 25 bps. Can $50 billion be invested in five-year treasuries over time?

TIM SLOAN: Chris, that's a good question. I wish I could give the answer. And the reason I'm hesitant is we're in the midst of discussions with regulators with the fed -- very, very productive discussions from our perspective, a lot of give and take. But until we complete the discussions I couldn't comment specifically on whether it's a half or three quarters or two thirds or what.

Clearly we're not maintaining -- and I want to make sure this is really clear -- we're not maintaining $100 billion of liquidity because we're concerned about where the LCR is going to end up. That's not what's preventing us from investing more of that. What we're hesitant about is investing more today what we think are lower rates.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: (multiple speakers) I understand that because your unrealized gains of $9 billion, clearly you're taking on less risk than some others. I'm just -- if I use $50 billion at a 175 basis point spread assuming a five-year treasury at 2%, but you're already earning 25 basis points on this. You're going to be leaving over $220 million a quarter off the table.

TIM SLOAN: I would not disagree with your math.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay, all right, thank you very much.

JOHN STUMPF: Is there another question or --.

OPERATOR: That was your final question. I will now turn the floor back over to you.

JOHN STUMPF: Okay, great. Well, I want to thank all of you for joining the call. I appreciate your questions and, again, thank you for your time and we'll talk to you next quarter. Bye-bye.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c22 : New Products/Services | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110504e74k0020a
  


 HD
 Q4  2010 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
13,061 words
   PD
19 January 2011
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©011 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn today's call over to Jim Rowe. Please go ahead, sir.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Good morning, thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and CFO, Howard Atkins, will review fourth-quarter 2010 results and answer your questions. Before we get started I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website.

   TD
I'd also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits.

In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include reference to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Jim. Good morning, everyone, and thanks for joining the call and, again, thanks for your interest in Wells Fargo. I'm very pleased with our record results for the year and the fourth quarter which again demonstrate the power and momentum of our franchise. We continue to focus on meeting the financial needs of our customers and, as a result, we grew revenue, loans, deposits and cross-sell as well as increased market share across our businesses.

We also experienced significant improvement in credit quality in the quarter, continuing the steady improvement we experienced throughout 2010. The Wachovia merger continues to exceed all of our expectations and we are particularly pleased with the positive customer response we have received as we begin integrating the Wachovia stores in our eastern states.

In fact, for the second consecutive year Wells Fargo ranked number one among large banks in the American Customer Satisfaction Index. Our internal metrics indicate greater customer retention and deepening customer relationships even as we completed increasingly complex merger activities.

For example, we've already replaced more than 5,000 Wachovia ATMs with all of our over 12,000 ATMs now on one operating platform. Simply by offering our customers in the east the same Web-enabled envelope free ATMs we have in the west, ATM deposit transactions in our eastern markets increased 55%. This is just one example of how we continue to execute our business model while serving our customers when, where and how they want to be served.

Deposit growth ranked strong throughout our Company with net checking account growth of 7.5% including California up 8.2% and Florida up 10%. Since the merger we have grown core deposits by $53 billion while favorably changing the composition from higher cost CDs to lower cost checking and savings accounts. In fact, listen to this, at the time of the merger 23% of our core deposits were in CDs compared with less than 10% today.

Just this past weekend we successfully completed the systems integration of our retail brokerage business. As a consequence we now have over 15,000 financial advisors in all 50 states on one common platform, state of the art and very robust trading, planning and investment platform activities and capabilities. This further enables cross-sell across banking, Wealth Management and brokerage customers nationwide.

Even as we celebrate the outstanding success of the Wachovia merger to date, we continue to focus intently on the remaining work ahead, converting the rest of the East Coast Wachovia banking stores to Wells Fargo throughout 2011.

Turning to the issue of regulatory reform, we have always been supportive of changes designed to better protect and serve consumers, businesses and the financial system. In some cases, however, such as the currently proposed control of debit interchange fees, suggested changes may have unintended consequences for the US consumer which causes our industry some concern.

We believe that lawmakers should engage all constituents -- merchants, consumers and banks -- and take the necessary time to reach a reasonable and equable solution. In that way we can all help make our regulatory and operating framework a positive one for customers, the banking industry and the overall health of the US economy.

As a company with more than 280,000 team members, our focus in this period of a new normal will be, as always, on how we best serve our customers by providing more value. So we are focusing on reducing expenses, being more efficient and nimble, and increasing revenue by winning more customers and deepening existing relationships and thereby limiting the impact of regulatory reform costs on our customers.

Granted there will be some costs that will be passed along to customers. We've begun to implement some changes and there are more to come. But these decisions will always be made with the customer at the center. As we work through these changes we will focus on three things -- providing our customers with choices and education about their options; rewarding customers for doing more business with us; and finally, offering meaningful value at fair prices.

With the evolving environment we are more convinced than ever that our commitment to helping our customers succeed financially will create the best long-term value for shareholders. Now let me turn this over to Howard.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John, and good morning, everyone. My remarks will follow the slide presentation included in the quarterly supplement that's available on the Wells Fargo Investor Relations website. I've got a lot of ground to cover this morning -- as shown on the slide labeled Fourth-Quarter Overview, I'd like to organize my remarks around five key areas.

First, our earnings were once again very strong, a record $3.4 billion in the fourth quarter. Perhaps more important was the high quality of our results with broad-based revenue growth across a large number of our 80 plus businesses, an acceleration of checking and savings account deposit growth and now loan growth in total and in load portfolios other than the non-strategic portfolio which we've been running off.

Second, we had a significant improvement in credit quality in the quarter with non-performing loans and non-performing assets now down this quarter and net charge-offs down once again after having peaked over a year ago.

In terms of mortgage securitization, we continue to experience declining repurchase demands, outstanding demands in total are only about $2.1 billion right now and we consider the $1.3 billion reserve as of 12-31, 2010 to be adequate given what we are seeing from investors.

On reg reform, I'll spend some time discussing the actual Q4 impacts as well as our evolving cost estimates and how we are thinking about the issues here.

And on capital, we had a 12% annualized internal capital generation in the fourth quarter. Our capital ratios are higher than they've ever been. In terms of Basel III Tier 1 common, we had approximately a 7% ratio and our objective, of course, is to build Tier 1 common while at the same time returning capital to shareholders at a more normal level.

On slide 3 you can see our earnings have been very strong every quarter since the merger with Wachovia. We earned a total of $24.6 billion over the past eight quarters, including the record $3.4 billion earned in the fourth quarter which represents a 15% return on tangible common. Our earnings increased 9% linked-quarter annualized and 21% year over year, producing a $0.61 earnings per share in the fourth quarter.

As a reminder, a year ago our EPS was $0.08 a share, but that reflected the $0.47 reduction for the TARP preferred stock dividend including the redemption of TARP in the fourth quarter of 2009. Apart from TARP our EPS was up 11% year over year on a 10% larger base of diluted average shares outstanding.

Now there were a number of items in the fourth quarter that affected revenue and earnings and demonstrate the quality of our results. As you can see on slide 4, I'd like to go over some of these in some detail.

First, the full-quarter revenue impact from Reg E was $431 million pre-tax in the quarter, up $51 million from the third quarter. If you remember the changes here started in the middle of the third quarter. As more customers opt in and we make product changes we expect this revenue impact to diminish progressively over the next two years and I'll have more to say about that in a moment.

Continued -- we continue to earn income on our PCI commercial loans that were sold at gains or otherwise favorably resolved, we had $99 million of PCI resolution, loan resolution income in the quarter, down $103 million from the third quarter.

Given the fact that we marked the Wachovia loan portfolio at the widest credit spreads in the cycle, and given the success we've had in resolving problem loans, loan resolution income has actually averaged about $186 million in the eight quarters since the merger. And we see some additional potential for additional resolution income as the economy and markets improve, but of course with fewer loans to work out and hard to predict exactly when that may occur.

We had equity gains of $317 million in the quarter compared with $131 million in the third quarter. Now this is a more regular source of earnings for our Company; we've averaged about $195 million of gains in the past four quarters. Largely from the private equity portfolio and given the relatively buoyant stock market there's some potential for additional gains going forward here.

We had $268 million of bond losses, almost all due to the sale of our lowest yielding securities which we repositioned at higher rates prevailing at quarter end and early first quarter. This will offset almost all of the equity gains in the quarter.

Merger integration expenses totaled $534 million, up $58 million from the third quarter. If you remember, we said that the fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011 would be the peak quarters roughly in terms of the integration. These expenses of course will go away after we finish the integration in late 2011 and early 2012.

In the quarter we made a $400 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation. We typically contribute about 1% of annual earnings each year to the Foundation, so the fourth-quarter contribution covers three full years of estimated funding and estimated expenses for the Foundation.

We typically have higher expenses in the last quarter of each year. If you look at the advertising, travel and equipment expenses in the quarter, which is where most of the seasonality occurs, Q4 was higher than Q3 by over $300 million. Foreclosed asset expense was $452 million, up $86 million from the third quarter. These costs will remain elevated in the near term before declining as problem assets decline.

Next, reflecting the improvement in credit quality, we had an $850 million reserve release in the quarter and we expect additional releases in the future absent significant deterioration in the economy. I'll discuss in a moment some additional items in our mortgage business including an increase in repurchase reserves, higher foreclosure costs and volume-related expenses in that business.

Now, while I like to say our earnings are our earnings, I've noted these particular items on this slide, which includes more unders than overs, simply to underscore the very high quality of our earnings in the fourth quarter.

Slide 5, our earnings growth in the fourth quarter was driven by two main factors, one of which was the very strong revenue that we had in the quarter. In the next few slides I'll highlight for you just how strong and just how broad-based our revenue was across products, across segments, across geography and across customers.

Given the fact that we operate and cross-sell across 80 some odd different businesses, our quarterly revenue has been relatively diverse in most quarters, but in this quarter particularly so. Two-thirds of our businesses generated revenue growth in the quarter in the aggregate producing 12% linked-quarter annualized revenue growth. Over 60% of the Company's $21.5 billion in fourth-quarter revenue came from businesses that produced double-digit revenue growth. This revenue growth was broad-based across all product lines.

We began seeing signs of some loan demand two quarters ago and in the fourth quarter that translated into an increase of loan outstandings which were up 2% in total and up 6% linked-quarter annualized in portfolios other than the non-strategic loans we were running off.

We've had strong core deposit growth now for many quarters and in the fourth quarter checking and savings account growth accelerated to 17% annualized from the prior quarter. As John mentioned, about 90% of our core deposits are now in the form of checking and savings reflecting the success we've had in gaining, retaining and building household and business relationships.

Mortgage originations were up 27%. We had a continued increase in client assets and wealth brokerage and retirement which were up 12% annualized. Trust and investment fees which included brokerage and investment banking fees rose 15%. So you can see across many, many product lines very strong growth.

On slide 6, each of our business segments had a solid quarter. Community Banking earned $2 billion in profits on $13.5 billion in revenue, core product sales in this business reached $7.1 million sales in the west, up 17% from a year ago, and grew at double digits in the east year over year. Sales were strong in both consumer and small business and across geographies.

We saw linked-quarter loan growth in auto, private student lending and SBA lending. And as shown on slide 6, many diverse businesses within the Community Bank had linked-quarter double-digit revenue growth.

Now global remittance, an interesting one, is an interesting example of the traction we are getting in our revenue growth from the combination with Wachovia. Remittance transaction volume increased 41% to $1.42 billion in 2010. The global remittance business is benefiting from revenue synergies with Wachovia with over 30% of the increase in dollar volume in the fourth quarter coming from Wachovia stores that have converted to Wells Fargo. Now this was a product that was not offered at Wachovia stores prior to the merger.

Our Wholesale Banking group earned $1.6 billion on $5.8 billion in revenue. This business had linked-quarter loan growth for the first time since the merger including loan growth in commercial banking, commercial real estate, asset-backed finance, capital finance, government banking, equipment finance and international.

Wholesale Banking has grown revenue consistently for many quarters, in fact many years, as it has gained more customers and cross sold deposits -- I'm sorry, cross sold deeper into its relationships. This revenue growth in the quarter also reflects merger synergies. For example, in investment banking revenue coming from our commercial customers -- that was up 44% in large part as more of our [current] relationships use Wells Fargo securities to underwrite their bond and equity financings.

Our wealth, brokerage and retirement business had solid linked-quarter revenue growth, up 18%, as client assets grew to $1.3 trillion, up 12% linked-quarter annualized. Client demand for managed account relationships continued to be strong as managed account assets grew 30% annualized from the third quarter.

Brokerage lines of credit increased 18% annualized. We now have more than 15,000 financial advisors who are increasingly focused on meeting our customers' total financial needs and who originated loans up 50% in this group in 2010. This business is an increasingly important growth business for us and an increasingly important source of cross-sell.

On slide 7, as you can see, the main reason our revenue has been so strong and so consistent is that our business model leads to greater market share and greater share of wallet. In the fourth quarter retail cross-sell for all households combined was 5.7 up from 5.47 a year ago.

Cross-sell was up about 4% in the west and up even more in the east as Wachovia stores adopt the Wells Fargo sales model. We still have what we think is roughly a 20% revenue growth opportunity in the east simply by increasing cross-sell in the east up to the west cross-sell of 6.14.

Importantly, on slide 7 we show the market share data starting with the first quarter after the merger through the last available quarter, and there are two things I'd point out about the market share data. First, you can see just how much market share we've gained after having put the two companies together at the end of 2008. And second, you can see just how broad-based our market share growth has been in virtually every type of financial services that households and businesses need and want.

Before turning to credit quality I would like to make a few points about the mortgage business on slide 8. Mortgage banking non-interest income increased $258 million in the fourth quarter. Not coincidentally we also had approximately $200 million higher operating expenses in the quarter to process all these originations -- an example of our ability to modify capacity and variable expenses up and down as volume ebbs and flows.

On slide 8, for purposes of analysis, we've broken down mortgage fees into component parts, originations and servicing. On the origination side the total gain on origination activities was $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter, but that included $464 million provided for repurchase reserves, up $94 million from the third quarter. This addition primarily reflected an increase in loss severity projections even though unresolved repurchase demands are down again in the quarter. The $2.9 billion gain from origination activities was up 27% from the third quarter on a 27% increase in originations.

All in servicing revenue was $240 million in the quarter. I'm often asked where in the income statement we account for higher residential foreclosure costs. And in fact the present value of projected residential mortgage foreclosure costs is reflected in the MSR valuation, so when foreclosure expenses are projected to rise, the full higher expected costs reduce current period earnings through a reduction in the MSR.

As you can see on this slide, we reduced the value of our MSR by $143 million in the fourth quarter for higher projected servicing and foreclosure costs. We review and adjust our servicing and foreclosure cost projections within our MSR valuation each quarter and have been adding to this cost for several quarters now to reflect the current higher cost environment.

The ratio of MSRs as a percent of loan service for others was 86 basis points, up slightly from 72 basis points in the third quarter simply due to the higher mortgage rates in the quarter. But we expect we will once again be at the lower end of the peers on this metric.

Let me now shift to credit quality starting on slide 9. In addition to building the franchise, the second key reason our earnings were so strong in the quarter was because credit quality improved significantly. Charge-offs declined again as they have in every quarter since the fourth quarter of 2009 and are now 29% below the peak.

We've indicated in the past that given our particular loan portfolio mix the peak of non-performers would lag the peak in charge-offs. Non-performing loans appear now to have peaked and we're down $2.1 billion in the fourth quarter with new inflows dropping significantly and outflows accelerating.

Provision expense was $2.99 billion, down $456 million, including an $850 million reserve release and reflecting the $256 million quarterly reduction in losses. Absent a significant deterioration in the economy we expect future reductions in the allowance for loan losses.

Our allowance for credit losses stands at $23.5 billion at year end, that's 6.1 times quarterly charge-offs. In addition, the PCI non-accretable difference of $13.4 billion represents about 29.5% of the remaining PCI unpaid principal balance.

On slide 10, not only were charge-offs down in the quarter, but virtually all of our leading credit metrics point to continued improvement. As I mentioned, non-performing assets were down linked-quarter for the first time since the merger with Wachovia, down 6%. Non-performing loans declined $2.1 billion from the third quarter with reductions in C&I, commercial real estate construction and each of the consumer loan categories.

Total non-performing inflows were down 13% and outflows increased 21%. Criticized classified assets were down roughly 10%. Apart from some definitional changes, the biggest decline we've had so far in this cycle. We also continue to see a reduction in loans 90 plus days past due and still accruing, which have declined now for four consecutive quarters, commercial loans 90 days or more past due improved significantly from the third quarter, down 40%.

And finally, early-stage delinquencies declined from the third quarter, quite a positive development actually since fourth quarter is usually a seasonally higher quarter for delinquencies, as you can see from the fourth quarter of 2009.

On slide 11, this improvement in credit quality in large part reflects the success we've had over the last two years and into the fourth quarter reducing higher risk asset portfolios. On this slide we show the decrease in our higher risk non-strategic portfolios since the merger with Wachovia which are now down a total of almost $55 billion with 32% over the past two years. This portfolio has been reduced significantly in the aggregate and in each type of portfolio we have decided to exit.

Now while these portfolios do have an interest yield, they are breakeven at best after considering charge-off rates and workout and loan resolution costs and, of course, these loans also tie up a lot of capital, so this portfolio will continue to decline.

The PCI portfolio continued to perform better than expected. Over the past two years we've have only had to add about $1.6 billion to the reserves related to PCI loans in the commercial portfolio. Due to improved expected cash flows in the PCI portfolio, largely the Pick-a-Pay portion of that portfolio, and also due to commercial loans that have already been resolved.

We've released a total of $5.3 billion of non-accretable difference with $1.5 billion recognized in earnings since the merger from loan resolutions and $3.7 billion recognized through accretable yield over the life of the loans. Again this was not a big factor in the fourth-quarter results.

While the non-accretable balance has absorbed $22 billion of losses related to PCI loans, we have $13.4 billion of non-accretable difference remaining covering, as I said before, 29.5% of the remaining unpaid principal balance. Actual quarterly losses have been declining and were $836 million in the fourth quarter on the PCI portfolio compared to a $2.8 billion eight-quarter average. In other words, actual quarterly losses in the PCI portfolio are down significantly, which is what you'd expect after working with these assets for two years now.

On slide 12, talk about mortgage securitization. Last quarter we gave you a lot of detail regarding the quality of our servicing portfolio and our repurchase reserves; let me provide just a few updates for you this quarter. As you can see on the slide, our residential servicing portfolio is predominately comprised of agency paper, nearly half of the loans in the servicing portfolio were originated through our retail channels and less than 2% were subprime at origination.

The majority of originated or acquired non-traditional product, such as Pick-a-Pay, Wells Fargo debt consolidation and home equity, is on our balance sheet and therefore losses on these loans have been handled through loan loss reserves and PCI non-accretable and therefore have no repurchase risk.

Quality of our servicing portfolio is reflected in our low delinquency and foreclosure rate. As of the end of the third quarter, the most recently available quarter publicly, we continue to have the lowest delinquency and foreclosure rate among large bank peers.

Our delinquency and foreclosure rate continued to decline in the fourth quarter and was down at around 8% which is counter to typical higher fourth-quarter seasonality. In fact, we've not seen the delinquency rate improve during the fourth quarter in at least the last 10 years. It's also down significantly from a peak of 8.96% a year ago.

Our outstanding agency repurchasing demands -- repurchase demands continued to decrease in the fourth quarter with both the number and the dollar volume of demands outstanding down nearly 50% from the second-quarter peak. Total outstanding agency demands are down to $1.5 billion and the most problematic vintages in terms of losses continue to be 2006 through 2008; we saw new demands in those vintages drop for the third consecutive quarter in Q4.

New non-agency repurchase demands, based on loan count, have declined now for three consecutive quarters with only $137 million of repurchases in the fourth quarter. The repurchase demand levels reflect the quality of our non-agency portfolio.

In terms of private securitizations in the non-agency portfolio, 70% are jumbo loans, 81% were prime loans at origination, 58% were originated prior to 2006. We have an insignificant amount of home equity in this portfolio and approximately 50% of our private securitizations do not have traditional reps and warranties and therefore by definition are not subject to repurchase risk.

Now the segment of the private securitizations where we might have the possibility of higher risk, which would be the combination of sub prime 2006-2007 vintages, with reps and warranties and with current LTVs, close to 100%. That combination represents only 6% of the total private securitizations, in other words less than 0.5% of total securitizations.

Let me now touch on regulatory reform on slide 13 and talk a little bit about Q4 impacts and how we're thinking about the issue more generally. First on Reg E. If you remember Reg E went into effect in the middle of the third quarter, so Q4 was the first full quarter impact. We calculated about a $270 million after-tax impact in the fourth quarter that's very consistent with our prior guidance on the subject.

We expect 2011 quarterly averages impacts to decline over time, perhaps into the $215 million to $240 million after-tax range, as we benefit from higher opt-in rates and product changes. Now I should mention we are being very measured in our approach here -- first because we want to make sure that our customers understand all their options and can make an informed choice; and second because our first priority, in the east at least, is to complete the integration.

On the Credit Card Act, if you remember, that also went into effect in the third quarter of last year where we had a $30 million impact and a $50 million impact in the fourth quarter. That of course is now already in our run rate. We have a much smaller impact from this act for us than for all of our large peers who have much larger credit card businesses.

On FDIC, we expect the FDIC quarterly expenses to increase by about $40 million after-tax starting in the second quarter of 2011. Since approximately 80% of our total funding is from core customer deposits, a real competitive advantage for us. The FDIC changes will have a much smaller impact on Wells Fargo than on those companies who are more wholesale or more market funded.

Now on debit interchange fees, as John mentioned, this topic is still being -- it's still being debated and we would suggest there's a wide range of potential outcomes, including obviously no impact if this regulation is not implemented. Based on the facts as we know currently, a place marker for this would be around $250 million plus or minus per quarter initially. But I want to emphasize that this is just an approximation and is very, very, very preliminary. We believe there's still a lot of work to be done on this so we will have to see where this goes, when it goes and indeed if it goes into effect.

Regulatory reform and its impact on the banks and its customers is still a work in progress. Through its direct impact on checking, debit and credit cards reg reform will clearly place additional costs on the nation's payment system, some of which will need to be borne in the form of higher fees by the consumers and businesses who benefit from the significant ongoing investment the banking industry makes in maintaining a viable payment system.

We believe this is about revenue though, not simply about fees and gaining more business and more customers by having the right value proposition across all payment products will be an important part of our response.

The second part of our response to reg reform will also be to step up our efforts to be cost competitive in the marketplace. So on slide 14 let me describe some of the things you can expect on expenses. As I mentioned earlier, we had $533 million of Wachovia merger integration expenses in the fourth quarter. This expense will decline as the integration activities start to wind down in 2011 and there could be some small tail into the first quarter of 2012.

While credit quality continues to improve; we still have higher than normal costs associated with loan resolutions and loss mitigation, including both personnel and foreclosed asset expenses. We expect these expenses will decline moderately in 2011 and then perhaps more significantly. And we provided here again some range of potential expense levels for loan resolution and loss mitigation costs in both 2011 and 2012 compared with the $827 million of actual expense in the fourth quarter of 2010.

In the third quarter of 2010 we closed the separate branch network of Wells Fargo Financial -- by the way, a very good example of the economies of scale we can achieve with Wachovia -- and we expect additional cost saves as the Wells Fargo Financial portfolio is reduced over time.

As mentioned earlier, we had a $400 million charitable contribution to the Wells Fargo Foundation in the fourth quarter covering three years of estimated expenses and funding for the Foundation and our current view is that that will of course go to zero in the next two years as a result.

As I mentioned, advertising, travel and equipment expenses in the fourth quarter were seasonally higher than the average quarterly run rate, so that will be somewhat lower all other things constant in 2011 and 2012 in the fourth-quarter number that you see.

And finally, as we've mentioned before, we are working on a companywide expense initiative that's focused on process improvements, improving time to market, reducing complexity in our product lines and eliminating redundancies and we'll provide much more comprehensive details on this by the middle of this year.

Finally, on slide 15, our capital ratios continued to increase in the fourth quarter driven by strong internal capital generation of $3.5 billion, up 12% annualized. Tier 1 common grew to 8.37%, up 36 basis points from the third quarter. That ratio is well above our average of 7% Tier 1 common from 2001 to 2007. Under the Basel capital proposals we estimate our Tier 1 common capital ratio at 6.9% in the fourth quarter.

Now as we wait to hear from our regulators on our capital plan submission we remain eager to increase our dividend and hope to eventually -- and I emphasize eventually -- return to a more normalized pay-out ratio of at least 30% and to engage in repurchasing shares in step with continued capital growth. We also expect to redeem those trust preferred securities that are callable and that would no longer be considered Tier 1 capital under new regulations.

While of course all of this is subject to regulatory approval, I would highlight that our capital is very strong, it's been growing steadily through industry-leading internal capital generation, credit quality has clearly improved and we have shed significant asset risk now from our balance sheet.

So in summary, our fourth quarter continued to demonstrate the Company's ability to earn strong and consistent earnings. Our results in the fourth quarter in our view were high-quality driven by broad-based revenue growth and significant improvement in credit quality and our capital position is strong and continues to grow. With that I'd like to now open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Howard, a question on just liquidity. If we look at your cash, your Fed fund sold position, it's grown dramatically in the last year; it looks about $72 billion average in the fourth quarter. Just wondering why is it you seem to be sitting on so much cash and liquidity and what will be the criteria for you to start putting some of that to work?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, John, we do have a lot of liquidity and that's really the result of having such strong deposit growth. As I mentioned earlier, 7% checking account and savings account growth just in the fourth quarter and, as you know, our deposit growth has surpassed our loan growth in the last period of time.

Obviously we'd love to see more loan demand, we're beginning to see some of that now, and we think that the cash that we have on the balance sheet positions us very well for when loan growth does materialize. And of course, should interest rates go up enough we can consider adding more to the bond portfolio which we've been reluctant to do in a significant way so far just given what we think may be the very low level of long-term interest rates that have been prevailing.

JOHN MCDONALD: So you view this as offense -- this isn't really defense of getting ready for new liquidity requirements or anything like that?

HOWARD ATKINS: No, this is not about --

JOHN STUMPF: Total offense, John.

HOWARD ATKINS: -- required to hold more liquidity. This is simply we've been incredibly successful in growing deposits and, as you know, we've always tried to do the right thing for our balance sheet and earnings. So this is just very offensive and positioning for the future.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. The second question on expenses, on the page 14 slide, first, why did the Wells Fargo Financial wind-down costs last for three years?

HOWARD ATKINS: It's not the wind-down costs, it's the ongoing costs of keeping the portfolio going. There is a loan portfolio there, the debt consolidation portfolio. And as that portfolio matures over time we'll be able to pull the costs down, further integrate into the existing retail system.

JOHN STUMPF: But, John, the store costs are all out.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, okay, got it. And then on that slide, it seems from looking at that that you could have some meaningful expense leverage in 2012. And the question I hear a lot and I'm sure you get is, will you let any of this fall to the bottom line or is there a long list of investment projects that this is going to get redirected to? And feel free to answer that it will be some of both.

JOHN STUMPF: First of all, we are not under investing today. We think this company as a growth company we invest in growth opportunities, we opened stores this last year, we've added tons of bankers, more feet on the street. So, as we get to 2012, if we see some great investment opportunities that are incrementally above where we are today we'll do that, otherwise this will flow to the bottom line. But we are not under investing today and this is not to redirect some place because we have to make an investment some place.

JOHN MCDONALD: Right, right. Okay, that's very clear, thank you. Last thing on mortgage. I know you don't give out the number, but directionally did the origination gain on sale margins come down materially in the fourth quarter? And can you give some just directional magnitude on that? And do you expect further contraction again in early 2011?

HOWARD ATKINS: In terms of the spread on gain on sales is what you're saying, John?

JOHN MCDONALD: Yes, yes.

HOWARD ATKINS: There wasn't a material change in the quarter.

JOHN MCDONALD: Was not?

HOWARD ATKINS: No.

JOHN MCDONALD: Since volume -- volume really drove the change in --?

HOWARD ATKINS: As I said, we put aside the repurchase reserve provision, the origination fee and non-interest income was up roughly the same as the origination volume.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And could you comment at all on what your thoughts are going into this year on those margins holding up?

HOWARD ATKINS: The industry has consolidated, so on average margins are not going to change very much. But what will drive margins up and down is the level of interest rates and volume and the industry is adding and subtracting capacity. So it really is going to be a function of demand overall.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

DAVID HO, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, good morning, this is David Ho on behalf of Matt. A question on the Tier 1 common, it rose by 36 basis points in the fourth quarter under Basel I. I'm curious to see why you don't see an increase under Basel III?

HOWARD ATKINS: Because of, again, some evolving definitional changes, number one. And number two, because we had some real growth in risk weighted assets.

DAVID HO: Got it. That was the only question. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. A couple of questions. One is on capital management and, Howard, you mentioned that you've got the dividend share buybacks reinvestment. Can you just prioritize how you're thinking about that? Does the 30% payout come first and then everything else follows after that?

HOWARD ATKINS: I think the point I'd try to make, Betsy, is that there are really things that we're focused on right now. We want to start getting the dividend back up to a more normal pay-out ratio, we think that's important, appropriate and time to reward our shareholders in that fashion.

Number two, share repurchase simultaneously is important in combination with a higher dividend. And clearly want to call the TruPS which has an immediate impact on both earnings and Tier 1 common and doesn't cost us anything from a capital perspective. So all three of those things are important and represent an important part of our capital management.

BETSY GRASECK: Because when you talked about doing the buybacks you were talking about doing the buybacks in step with capital growth.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, here's sort of conceptual construct. As you know, a company that's growing capital at twice the rate of its asset growth can return a lot more than 30% of its capital back to its shareholders and still grow capital. So when we think about total return of capital to shareholders, it's really the combination of dividend and share repurchase that we're thinking about and that number could be more than just the 30% dividend pay-out ratio.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, okay. And I was wondering how you think about what kind of capital you feel you need to run the business under Basel III? I realize that you put out the 6.9% in the discussion here on page 15. I'm just wondering what are some of the major elements that differentiate the Basel I versus the Basel III, because we didn't get any detail on that. And how do you plan on managing that going forward? I'm just trying to understand what kind of active capital level you have.

HOWARD ATKINS: Okay, well let me try this way. First, as you know, historically we've always run the Company with very strong capital ratios. The 7% Tier 1 common that we had prior to 2008 was at the top-end of the industry and served us pretty well when we went to buy Wachovia.

Our Tier 1 common today under Basel I is now 20% higher than that already strong capital ratio. So on a Basel I basis we already think the Company is being operated at very, very strong capital levels. And of course given our capital generation we'll see how high that goes.

If that translates back to roughly a 7% Tier 1 common under Basel III, that also feels about right to us and that's before taking into account other things that the regulators may require that appears to be about where the regulators are coming out now on Basel III. So, 7% Basel III, 8 to 8.25 on Basel I for Tier 1 common feels like an appropriate kind of target for us going forward.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, Betsy, I'd just add this, I absolutely agree with where -- because, Howard, we've talked about this a lot at this Company. I think the part that Basel III got right was around calibrating the risk. And this company just runs with a lot less risk. If you look at how we fund our balance sheet, the level of core deposits, the kind of credit and other risks that we take and manage and so forth, running at about a 7% Basel III kind of number give or take seems like that's strong capital.

BETSY GRASECK: And so the RWAs that you've got in the Basel III is point in time what you have today or does that include mitigation?

HOWARD ATKINS: No mitigation, we don't feel that mitigation is necessary. Because again, remember, as John mentioned, we will have a much smaller impact from Basel III than the other banks because we don't have the same --.

JOHN STUMPF: Risk profile.

HOWARD ATKINS: -- risk level other companies do. And it's a quite significant advantage for us and will not lead us to have to take mitigating actions from where we are given how rapidly our capital has been growing.

BETSY GRASECK: And anything on the M&A front outside of the depository business? Any --?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, the biggest issue right now is finishing Wachovia. We've had operators that look at things that could or could not be interesting like there's consolidation going on in the industry, but we simply want to -- we're over two-thirds through this and we want to really do this exceedingly well.

I mentioned in the past we have an interest in growing our insurance distribution business and we're doing a lot of things organically. But there are some opportunities as that industry consolidates and the wealth brokerage retirement business and asset management -- those are other areas that we have I think opportunities to play a larger role, in many cases just serving our existing customers.

So if there are things that are opportunistic, terrific. If there are things that are not opportunistic, we have so much to do organically. And you know this. The Wachovia thing really did change the reach of this Company; it was such a wonderful merger and acquisition it really gave us a lot of what we needed to play on the national stage in many of our businesses.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, that's why I was wondering if there were any fill-in's in the non-depository businesses that you might have on the radar screen?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, yes. Well, sure. Like I said, some of the wealth and asset management things and some in distribution. But there's not a big gaping hole in our product suite or our menu that's problematic for us today -- either geography or product.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just last on the TruPS, callable TruPs. I'm looking at about $4.6 billion in callable TruPS right now. Is that accurate or am I off on that number?

HOWARD ATKINS: We have, as you know, about $21 billion in total. Some of that will convert by its terms to qualifying forms of preferred. And we have about $11 billion or $12 billion left that theoretically could be callable.

BETSY GRASECK: If you were to pay up?

HOWARD ATKINS: No, just callable.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. All right, great. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Brian Foran, Nomura.

BRIAN FORAN, ANALYST, NOMURA: I guess as a follow-up to that last one, there's still a decent sized gap between net income and net income to common. So is working down preferred dividends an opportunity as well?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well again, to the extent that that represents qualifying capital, we're not going to call stuff that represents qualifying capital.

BRIAN FORAN: Okay. And then just more broadly on recapture. USB kind of mentioned 50% as a guess for the overall recapture rate across all the regulatory stuff that's happening and seemed to kind of indicate it will happen starting in 2011 versus 2012. If I put everything you're saying together is that translating to a [roughly similar] ballpark or how should we think about overall recapture rates and timing?

JOHN STUMPF: Brian, we've not given a number, Brian, and we are -- we are busy about changing some products, looking for ways to add value and get paid for that. But we've not -- for us, we don't even know what the debit thing will be yet, that's still in play. We've just not given a number on that.

HOWARD ATKINS: And frankly it depends on what you call recapture because, as we said before, some of this is going to be fee increases, some of it's going to become -- is going to be expense management. Some of it is going to come from greater volume as we increase the value proposition to our customers. So again, I don't know how to do math on that.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, we are trying to look at a balanced approach on a multidimensional approach. Some of it will -- we have -- different customers have different levels of profitability with us. We've not been sitting around here just hoping. We've been working very hard about strengthening our relationship model.

In fact, the relationship model we employ here is probably the best thing -- the best anecdote to what is happening in the regulatory form arena, because as we deepen relationships profitability grows exponentially as we add products [arithmetically]. So I think it's a work in progress.

BRIAN FORAN: If I could follow up this way, I mean some of the stuff that is going to happen seems like maybe annual fees on debit cards, maintenance fees on low balance accounts, stuff that's going to be not particularly popular with customers. So, is it better to move with the industry on that, or is it better to kind of wait and be the last one to do that and kind of gauge how customers move around and maybe pick up market share by still offering a free product?

JOHN STUMPF: I think it's best to serve your customers and put their interest -- they understand we have to get paid. Nobody can operate a business at a loss and we are going to get paid differently, so it might not be an increase. And like Howard mentioned, we are also tightening our belt and we are going to try to drive our costs down so we can be more competitive.

So I think it's a -- I don't know that it's an earlier or later kind of thing. It's about serving customers and stake -- and evolve. We are always evolving. In fact, if you look back, I have been with the industry 35 years and what we got paid for a checking account was very different 35 years ago than it was 20 years ago than it is today. So things change.

HOWARD ATKINS: And again, not to make too fine a point about it, as we said, this is about the customer and the revenue we earn from the customer not about the fee.

BRIAN FORAN: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank. Good morning, everyone. I just -- question on the loan growth. The C&I increase is very encouraging this quarter; I just wondered if you could talk a little bit more about the drivers to that. Was it actual increase in line utilization rates, was it more new clients? And what about, generally, your expectations as we head into the first half of 2011 here?

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, it's more on new clients and not on -- utilization rates really have not changed. That still is dry powder. But we are out winning more relationships and it's more in that area.

HOWARD ATKINS: Joe, as you know from public data, there has been an increase in total loans in the system the last quarter or two. But as I pointed out on the market share tables, we've increased market share and that tells you that we've been picking up relationships during this period.

JOE MORFORD: Great, okay --.

JOHN STUMPF: But we are hearing more comments from our customers that -- where a year ago you didn't hear as much about "I'm thinking of adding a plant or adding some people or doing this or whatever," you're hearing more of that today. But typically what happens is you see some run down in deposit balances then you see the borrowing.

JOE MORFORD: Right, okay. Thanks. And then just a couple quick questions on the mortgage repurchase stuff. I guess first, have you explored at all a possible settlement with the GSEs of the outstanding pipeline of claims or have they approached you at all?

And then also, the provision for losses, while overall still low, was up from the last several quarters. You talked about increased severity. Is that primarily on the private label side or across the board and any other comments you could share there would be helpful?

HOWARD ATKINS: Again, the loss severity is just our estimate based on what we're seeing in both portfolios. As we've indicated, the larger of the two issues for us is still the agency side of it. We've had virtually nothing on the private side. And as far as a global settlement, again as we've said before, this is a rapidly declining issue for us and we think we're very well reserved. So I'm not sure a settlement would make a lot of sense.

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, I think of it in these terms -- this is a very issuer or company specific kind of thing. And you've got to look out what's going on, what you have in the portfolio, percentages prime, percentage current and all of that. Because it might make sense for one company -- again, very unique by company.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, that makes sense. Very helpful, thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you, Joe.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Thank you very much. Now that you're becoming more of a national franchise, is there any one area where you're seeing more economic growth or more loan demand or more positive comments than -- like is it the South or is it California?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, sure. We see -- there's things that are different. Texas tends to be -- our business there is doing quite well. So I think it depends on where the states are or the areas of the country that are into certain economies. Where you have a housing basis for the economy that's more difficult. Where there's energy or agriculture it tends to be a little better. So it reflects that.

But I would say the general mood is, and the general feeling is that while it's tepid so far there is a recovery in place. Things are better than they were a year ago -- not as good as they need to be, not as good as they will be hopefully and jobs are still the big issue. But surely there's a little more spring in the step of our customer, business and consumer.

PAUL MILLER: And then on the deposit side, I mean you're the best deposit base out there. But is it a case that your liquidity is really building up? Are you starting to push out some non-core deposits or just trying to maybe not be such a good deposit gatherer in this market? Because eventually this stuff will move out.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well remember the deposits that we're talking about here that we've been gathering are checking accounts and savings accounts, they're not CDs and time deposits. So in effect the way we've been thinking about and pricing CDs is not to take the higher cost money and just continue to get the growth and customer operating balances is really what this is all about. And what that really says is we've been successful at growing the number of customers who are doing business with us and getting more of their operating balances and not that we're pricing to get more time deposits.

JOHN STUMPF: Paul, we are really focusing this Company on checking account, what I would call transactional deposit growth, because what that means is you're winning households. It's one of my favorite things to do every morning when I get here is read the deposit report from the day before, because when you're growing checking accounts you're growing households.

And the checking account and the mortgage frankly are about two of the biggest hooks you can get. And when we see Florida last year, we grew checking accounts by 10%. We all know Florida did not grow households by 10%, they might have been even or maybe there was an outflow last year. So we are gaining share and the same thing is true in New Jersey and even in California here, we grew by over 8%.

And while those deposits might not be that valuable today because we're going to invest them, let me tell you, that is our lifeblood. We're going to like those and those relationships a lot. We like them a lot today, we're going to like them even more in the future.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, thanks a lot. Thanks a lot, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Good morning. I just want to maybe follow up a little bit on John's initial question about how much liquidity you have on the balance sheet. There was a line in your third-quarter 10-Q that talked about being able to at some point invest a lot of excess liquidity into investment securities.

And I'm sort of wondering what your thoughts are in terms of how you would invest that and what kind of thresholds we would need to see from an interest-rate standpoint for you to think about investing more aggressively in terms of some of that excess liquidity. And then I also have a follow-up question. Thanks.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, the best way we can invest that liquidity is if we get loan growth, right. And we think we are particularly well leveraged for loan growth. We gave you the data on loan outstanding increases. But I should also mention that while loans have not done up significantly we have been very active in growing the number of new lines and committed facilities. So, once loan demand actually comes back it could come back pretty quickly here for us.

In terms of the investment portfolio, we've been saying for many quarters now that we've been keeping our powder dry. We did do some investing in the fourth quarter when rates started moving up and we actually, as I mentioned, sold some of the lowest yielding securities we've had in the portfolio and repositioned that up into the higher yields that were prevailing at the end of the quarter.

I can also tell you, Ed, that if you look back historically at securities that we bought for the portfolio, typically that has been mortgage-backed securities, just plain vanilla agency mortgage-backed securities, which we think is good for our portfolio given the long duration of our liabilities. And secondly, we typically in the past have not bought securities of that kind unless rates were up in the sort of 5%-ish level or higher.

Now that's a yield level that may have been more relevant for the past than for the future, so I'm not suggesting necessarily that that's the right benchmark going forward. But throughout most of 2010 at least mortgage-backed security yields just felt awfully low to us relative to both history and relative to earnings that were coming through for us in the mortgage business.

ED NAJARIAN: I take it we should think about you not being too aggressive in terms of investing in terms of growing the MBS portfolio unless we see a material additional pickup in rates?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes. And again, that could change because the one thing that could change that thought a little bit is we do have to look at the total balance sheet and we don't want to have our liability durations moving too far too fast away from our asset duration. So we are trying to keep a relatively balanced balance sheet. But all other things aside, yes, we prefer seeing higher yields before beginning to load up on the portfolio.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Ed, you're asking the right question because there's a lot of earnings power there. I mean there's a lot of -- when you look at the spread we're getting on those excess dollars today it's minimal. So there's a real opportunity.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, great. Okay, thanks. And then just a follow up question has to do with mortgage servicing income and the rate positioning of your servicing portfolio. Prior to the third quarter we went through a number of quarters where you were getting market-related MSR valuation gains net of the hedge as rates were falling. In the third and fourth quarter that didn't happen, in fact there was, it looked like a net loss this quarter and I'm looking at the table on the top of page 43.

And I'm just wondering, you've always traditionally talked about how the servicing portfolio was a natural offset to the origination side of the business. And I'm just wondering if you are adopting sort of a view that rates will rise over time. And in that sense, are you thinking about sort of not completely hedging the servicing portfolio so that if rates do rise we could get some net gains in terms of the valuation of the servicing portfolio net of the hedge? Or do you just want to keep it as well hedged as possible and not really think about that as a source of potential revenue?

HOWARD ATKINS: A lot of things in the response of that question. First of all, we're not necessarily operating with a view that rates have to go up, but we at least want to make sure that we're properly protected in case they do.

As far as the hedge is concerned, the actual hedge result of the quarter was really close to zero, as I mentioned in my remarks, because the reported numbers included the additional cost for a servicing of foreclosure expense that went through the MSR in the quarter. So you take that away and we were really at zero.

And the third point I'd make in terms of the size of the hedge and the composition of the hedge, obviously that's changing all the time and is a function of yield curves and rate levels and spreads between mortgage assets and treasuries and LIBOR and so on. So there's really no singular answer to that question.

But yes, following your thought, to the extent that we felt that higher interest rates were more likely than lower interest rates, we might actually reduce the size of the hedge and therefore benefit by a greater up valuation of the asset relative to cost of the hedge should rates go up. And again, I'm not saying that's where we are, but theoretically that could happen in that circumstance.

JOHN STUMPF: And another piece that gets involved in that analysis, Ed, is what's the carry on the hedge? So if you're doing really well on the carry you might want to be more matched versus -- so this is something that we go through every Monday morning, it gets lots of management attention around here and -- but Howard is right.

If we're convinced that there's a high probability that rates are going to go up, in the past we've employed a strategy of maybe less hedged in that -- that's always on the table.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And not to sort of belabor the point, but I guess it seems very likely that origination revenue will decline from third- and fourth-quarter levels. So I guess more to the point, should we think about probably mortgage banking revenue going down or do you think there's an offset available in the servicing portfolio revenue if origination volume does drop?

HOWARD ATKINS: You are touching on the point as to why we think of the mortgage business as being a balanced business between servicing and origination. So that when we do our simulations and everything in terms of what impact interest rates may have on the business holistically, we look at both sides of the business and take into account effects of both sides of the business and the way we manage it.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, all right. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks and good morning. Just kind of as a follow-up, the FHA -- FHFA proposed earlier this week to cut the servicing fee for the GSEs. And I was curious as to your thoughts in terms of the impact of that on Wells Fargo and how what you guys think of that proposal.

JOHN STUMPF: Fred, conditions over the past few years have caused many (inaudible) and policy positions to rethink servicing contracts and what's going on there. And any changes likely -- if there are changes they'd be prospective in nature. And it's probably more than a year or so away whatever will be decided, so it's probably too early to give you any view on impact.

But let me just say this -- it's probably -- it could be neutral to us because we're both in the origination business and the servicing business. So if you allocate less of the -- of what the customer pays, allocate less of that to a capitalized servicing asset you'd probably get more than on your gain on sale.

And there are pluses and minuses in having a smaller servicing asset. You can hedge less -- so I'm not -- so I think what I'm suggesting is it's still in the very early stages, it's still being discussed, it's probably going to be prospective if anything on new volume and I'm not sure that this is more about geography and less about economics.

HOWARD ATKINS: I think essentially -- essentially what this really means is that -- if it happens, as John says -- less of that gain on sale when you sell a mortgage is attributable to the servicing asset and more of the gain on sale just comes through as an origination gain in cash.

One interesting potential benefit, if you will, if this happens, again as John mentioned, is that simply the amount of capitalized servicing on the balance sheet will be less over time and that has some positive implications, if you will, under Basel III which caps the amount of capitalized servicing that can be counted as Tier 1 common. So there are some interesting benefits from that if it happens without really changing the economics of the business.

FRED CANNON: Great. I just kind of viewed it as probably a positive for you in that gain on sale as determined in the marketplace wouldn't change much, more gain on sale would be cash and your servicing asset would be smaller freeing up some capital while the actual reported income probably wouldn't change much. Is that kind of a fair characterization of thinking about it? Obviously as was stated, it would play itself out over an extended period of time.

HOWARD ATKINS: I think that's a short and sweet or way of thinking about it, yes.

FRED CANNON: Okay, great. One other quick question, Howard. In terms of interpreting the Fed's policy in terms of dividends, obviously you all are going through a stress test and have to get that all buttoned up. Secondly, they did discuss Basel III kind of reaching that 7% level. Should we interpret the Fed's statement as saying before you increase dividends you have to be at that 7% Basel III level or simply just have to have a plan kind of to get there in the near term?

HOWARD ATKINS: I think the best way I could answer that is to say that Basel III is still evolving. I don't know whether there will be a soft or a hard or any kind of requirement for 7% under Basel III. But as you know, if there is one we're already there. So in our case it doesn't really matter.

FRED CANNON: Okay, great. All right, thanks very much.

HOWARD ATKINS: Thank you, Brad.

OPERATOR: Ron Mandle, GIC.

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. In regard to capital, the 6.9% Basel III, last quarter the Basel III ratio went up more than the Basel I ratio and you referred to deferred tax assets in using the PCI and so on. So, assuming this is just the flatness this quarter versus last quarter, as you say, it was just definitional. Does that mean that as and if Basel I ratio continues to go up in the next few quarters that the Basel III ratio should again go up faster than the Basel I ratio -- for the reasons you mentioned in the third quarter?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, you can't simply do the transfer -- it's not a fixed spread between the two ratios, Ron. Some quarters the spread between the two may go up, some may go down. I gave you some factors before -- you've got the MSR calculation in there, you've got DTA --.

RON MANDLE: Yes, you referred to (inaudible).

HOWARD ATKINS: So on and so forth. So again, it's really just not a fixed spread between the two. And in this particular quarter, as I say, we had real growth in those assets that impact the Basel III ratio.

RON MANDLE: But going forward we should expect more of a lock-step than we saw this quarter? Should we think of it that way?

HOWARD ATKINS: No, as I said, because of these other definitional factors for the Tier 1 common, I'm not prepared to say that the spread between the two ratios is going to be fixed and therefore it may or may not go up and down. Generally speaking the two ratios should move in the same direction and simply because the overriding driver of both is internal capital generation, it's earnings. So, yes, in that sense they both should move in the same direction and roughly by the same amount. But plus or minus -- the tweaks that come along with Basel III.

RON MANDLE: Okay. And then my other question is in regard to [Durbin]. You referred to a $250 million quarterly charge. One question was whether that's pre-tax or after-tax?

HOWARD ATKINS: That would be after-tax.

RON MANDLE: Okay.

HOWARD ATKINS: But again, I don't want to put too much precision on that, Ron, because again, it's such an approximated figure at this point and so preliminary. But we put that out there as kind of a place mark.

RON MANDLE: Right. No, I just wanted to make sure that it was after-tax.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes.

RON MANDLE: You mentioned a couple of times in discussing it that -- as to if it would be implemented at all. And I was wondering if you could elaborate on that point. It's not clear, to me anyway, under what scenarios it might not be implemented at all. So if you could elaborate I'd appreciate it.

JOHN STUMPF: Let me just give you a little larger or a broader response to that. I don't -- I'm not in favor of government price controls as part of a market-based economy that we have, I just think that's bad as an initial thing as an overall statement. It wouldn't be free enterprise and government debt. What product is next, what industry comes next? I've not seen that work in the past very well.

With respect to the issue specifically, it's in the interest, the long-term interest of merchants and consumers and the Basel service industry that we get this right. And right now it's on a fast track, we've got to make sure it gets on the right track, where the people who develop these products, the banks and so forth, this is a big fixed cost business. And I don't know of any industry or business that can continue to grow, innovate, support a product where you don't get paid for it and you get paid on a variable rate basis when you have all this fixed cost.

And there's real value being created here. Debit cards largely have transplanted cash and check. This is good for merchants, merchants -- the cost of handling that cash, the checks taking the risk, getting immediate funds with debit is enormously valuable. And that value creation helps them and we need to get compensated and I don't understand why cost became the issue.

But anyway -- so I think there is good reason and opportunity for us to sit around, get on a table and make sure we come up with the right situation. In fact, the President even asked a couple days ago that look at these regulations, he didn't say this one but he said regulations in general. And I think this is a great example of something that we simply have got to get right. Because at the end of the day if we can't get paid this way we've got to get paid a different way. And we want to make absolutely sure that we make -- that customers don't get disadvantaged in this process.

RON MANDLE: John, I understand what you're saying completely, but it seems to me that the Fed is implementing the law as it currently stands. So unless the law itself changes, I don't see how we go to the environment that you're describing from where we are now.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we will be prepared for whatever outcome, but we're going to make the point as an industry that in this case we need to really understand what we're doing here.

HOWARD ATKINS: We have time for one more question.

OPERATOR: Adam Barkstrom, Sterne, Agee.

ADAM BARKSTROM, ANALYST, STERNE, AGEE: Hey gentlemen, good morning. I wanted to -- not to pound you guys on the dividend question, but just at some point obviously you guys are going to be given the green light to increase dividends. And I'm just curious from your perspective, do you think that's going to -- let's just say 30% payout is kind of the bogey. I mean do you -- would you envision kind of jumping up to the 30% or kind of gradually working your way through to that number? And then I have one follow-up.

HOWARD ATKINS: Really can't talk about the specific submission to the Fed or let alone what the Fed may or may not approve. So a lot of this is really going to be up to the Fed.

ADAM BARKSTROM: Yes, I guess just to follow up -- just assuming hypothetically that 30% give or take is kind of the number, would you envision getting to that number very quickly or kind of more in a gradual process.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well again, as I say, restoring a more normal dividend, buying back shares, calling the TruPS and continuing to generate more capital are all important things to us. But at this point really the best way I can answer the question is it's up to the regulators at this point.

ADAM BARKSTROM: Got you, okay. And then, Howard, one last follow-up. Any further color you could give us kind of on margin from here? You mentioned in your opening remarks that you guys sold some of your bond portfolio, the lowest yield stuff. You've certainly benefited from some nice loan growth this quarter. Should we expect kind of looking out maybe a gradual turn in the margin from here?

HOWARD ATKINS: The margin really is a result of many things that occur on the balance sheet and in our earnings and what we're trying to do is grow net interest income and revenue and the margin will be what the margin will be. To the extent we have continued success in growing checking and savings, that will increase the margin. Frankly if loan demand accelerates that will be great for the top-line, but it may actually reduce the margin if we're not growing deposits at the same fast rate. So lots of things can happen to the margin here which, as I say, are just the result of many, many other things that we're trying to do.

ADAM BARKSTROM: Okay, gentlemen, thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. We're going to wrap right now. Sorry, we went a little over our time, but we appreciate your interest in the Company and your questions. Thank you for joining us and we will do this again 90 days from now. Thank you much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i8150107 : Debit Cards | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020110202e71j000dx
  


 HD
 Q3  2010 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
14,048 words
   PD
20 October 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question and answer session. (Operator Instructions)

I would now like to turn today's call over to Mr. Jim Rowe, Director of Investor Relations. Please go ahead, sir.

   TD
JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you and good morning, everyone. Thank you for joining our call today, during which our Chairman and CEO John Stumpf and CFO Howard Atkins will review third-quarter 2010 results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our third-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits. In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I will now turn the call over to Chairman and CEO John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT, CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Jim, and thanks to all of you for joining our call and for your interest in our Company. The third quarter was the best quarter in our Company's history, with record earnings of $3.3 billion, up 9% from last quarter. The strength of our diversified business model and the power of the Wells Fargo and Wachovia merger are clearly reflected in these results.

The Wachovia merger is exceeding all of our expectations, helping us generate more than $21 billion in earnings since the merger. In the third quarter we completed the integration of Wachovia's stores in our overlapping states and began the integration in our eastern states, successfully converting 170 banking stores in Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee.

This success paves the way for the rest of the eastern market conversions which we will complete next year, giving millions of customers access to more products and the largest banking store network in the United States. In addition to the banking stores, we have also converted many other businesses and systems including mortgage, credit card, trust, and mutual funds. Howard will provide some examples of the revenue synergies we are already realizing from the merger, but let me just say I am particularly pleased with the positive results we have had in retaining and attracting deposits, which are an important contributor to our results.

Checking account growth remains strong throughout our Company, up a net 7.3%, with very strong growth across the East, including 9% growth in Florida and 11.2% growth in New Jersey, as examples.

Now, I know we have all been hearing in recent months about business practices within our industry. I am proud of Wells Fargo's adherence to a culture of doing what is right for customers, which not incidentally benefits our team members, our communities, and our shareholders in the long run. For us, this means doing the hard work early and building processes that adhere to our standards as a Company. This is as true in our approach to merger integration as it is to our day-to-day business operations.

Let me quickly give you my views on the latest topic, related to mortgage foreclosures and repurchases. Howard will address this topic in more detail later on the call, but there are a couple of important points I want to make up front.

First, foreclosure is always a last resort, and we work hard to find other solutions for our customers. Since January 2009 we have completed over 556,000 modifications, more than twice the number of foreclosure sales completed during this period. We have forgiven $3.5 billion of principal to help customers stay in their homes.

Second, we are confident that our practices, procedures, and documentation for both foreclosures and mortgage securitizations are sound and accurate. Third, we did not and do not plan to initiate a foreclosure moratorium.

As it relates to regulatory reform, we continue to work internally with our regulators to better understand how reform measures may affect our businesses and our customers. The services we offer our customers including financial security, convenience, and advice obviously have a cost, and we need to be compensated for these benefits we provide our customers and for the capital we use to support these businesses. This is not new.

Over the years, there have been numerous environmental and regulatory issues in our industry, and the breadth of our diversified model and the strength of our underlying customer relationships have enabled us to succeed in the aggregate and relative to our peers. This environment is no different.

In the same way that helping our customers avoid foreclosure is the right thing to do for them and our shareholders, we will work to make sure that any changes we make in response to regulatory reform are in the best long-term interest of our customers, our team members, and of course our shareholders.

Our customer-centric approach has given us what I believe to be the best and most valuable franchise in the industry, and our actions will be consistent with the principles that have driven our actions over the years. Now let me turn it over to Howard.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, John. My remarks this morning will follow the slide presentation included in the quarterly supplement, which is available on the Wells Fargo investor relations website. I've got lots of ground to cover this morning but there are six key themes that I would like you to remember in my remarks.

First, as John indicated, we had record results in the quarter, best quarter ever, $3.3 billion in profit, with earnings per share of $0.60, or up 7% year over year.

Second, the way we grew earnings in the third quarter is the same as we have done to produce strong earnings every quarter since the merger. Revenue growth in most of our businesses, with expenses down.

Third, the Wachovia merger is already a big financial success for us with better-than-expected credit experience, expense savings on track, and abundant revenue synergies.

Fourth, we had continued improvement during the quarter in credit quality. Our chargeoffs are now some 24% below the peak last year and 9% down from the second to the third quarter.

Fifth, our balance sheet is stronger than ever. We have been growing Tier 1 Common at a rate of about 40 to 50 basis points per quarter organically. Tier 1 Common hit 8% during the quarter. And while the new Basel rules are still in process, we expect to be above 7% Tier 1 Common on the proposed Basel III rules, as we understand them, within the next few quarters.

Then finally, we are confident in our foreclosure and mortgage securitization policies, practices, and controls and the adequacy of our repurchase reserve. And I will get to that later on in this presentation.

If you look at slide 4, which is our earnings trend, as indicated we earned a record profit of $3.34 billion in the third quarter. This is not a new development. Quarterly profits, as you know, have been consistently strong since the merger two years ago.

Nor is the strength of our earnings in the quarter due to any one factor. Our results were relatively broad-based across many business segments and products.

I would like to point out a number of special items that in the aggregate reduced revenue and earnings on a linked-quarter basis. This would include for the first time now the impact of Reg. E, which cost us $380 million during the quarter in revenue.

Second, while we continue to have commercial loan resolutions in the PCI portfolio, $202 million in the quarter, that is down $304 million from the second-quarter PCI loan resolution income.

And thirdly, we only had $17 million in bond and equity gains. That is down $300 million from the second quarter.

When you add those items up, it's almost $1 billion worth of less revenue from the second to the third quarter, which means that all of our other business operations -- basically our core operations combined -- grew revenue by some $465 million in the quarter.

We had double-digit annualized linked-quarter revenue growth in a number of businesses including asset-backed finance, asset management, auto dealer services, brokerage, commercial banking, commercial mortgage servicing, commercial real estate, debit card, mortgage banking, private student lending, real estate investment banking, and retirement services. When you add up all of those businesses in which we had double-digit revenue growth, that amounts to some -- just under half of the total revenue of the Company in the quarter.

The third-quarter results, continuing with the special items, also included $476 million in merger integration expenses. Our operating losses were down close to $400 million from the second to the third quarter, largely reflecting the higher level of legal accruals we had in the second quarter. And in the third quarter we released $650 million from the allowance, reflecting the improved loan portfolio performance at Wells Fargo; and we expect additional releases in the coming quarters, absent significant deterioration in the economy.

Slide 5 shows you our returns and operating margins, which were strong and generally up in the quarter. Return on assets was increased to 1.1%. Return on tangible common, 15%. Both among the highest of the large bank peers.

Net interest margin did decline by about 13 basis points from the second quarter, but that was largely driven by lower PCI loan resolution income, as I mentioned earlier. As you know, lots of factors impact the margin, some positively, some negatively.

The decline that we have seen in the nonstrategic loan portfolio that we are running off does reduce the margin to a certain extent. On the other hand, we have had continued and significant growth in checking and savings deposits, which helps the margin.

As I mentioned before, our earnings continue to be very broad-based. As has been the case for many quarters, all of our business segments continue to contribute to the Company's earnings, with Community Banking growing earnings in the quarter by 13%; our Wholesale Banking group growing earnings by 2%; while the Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement group had essentially flat NIAT in the quarter, earnings in this business were almost double -- a little bit more than double from a year ago.

Let me take you through a little each of the main business segments. On slide 7, our Wholesale Banking group, you can see the trend in revenue and earnings there. Revenue in this group was down somewhat in the quarter due to the lower PCI loan resolution income and seasonal decline in insurance revenue. But many businesses in this group including customer flow trading, commercial real estate, commercial mortgage servicing, and asset-backed finance had double-digit annualized linked-quarter revenue growth.

Like our retail business, in the Wholesale business revenue to a very large extent is driven by cross-sell. As I mentioned we had many businesses that contributed to the result and to the growth in our cross-sell in this business.

We did see signs of lending activity increasing already in the second quarter in this business segment. But lending activity actually picked up in the third quarter with period-end loans up during the quarter in commercial, commercial real estate, asset-backed finance, and capital finance. And as another example of increased activity, new commercial real estate loan commitments in this business segment up 44% linked-quarter.

Credit quality in Wholesale improved once again during the third quarter, with chargeoffs down 29% and a continued drop in the number of problematic loans and transfers to work out.

In our Community Banking segment, Community Banking had a very strong sales quarter with sales up 14% and small-business sales actually up 25%. We also had very solid checking account growth once again in this business.

Lending activity picked up somewhat in Community Banking with loan growth during the quarter in core autos, private student lending, and SBA lending. We have been very active for several quarters now, including the third quarter, in providing credit to small businesses across the country.

On slide 9 you can see our cross-sell statistics, which are one of the key sources of revenue growth in the Company. The consumer cross-sell is still increasing at legacy Wells Fargo as it has been consistently for many years. And now with Wachovia we have also had success in increasing cross-sell in the Wachovia footprint.

We are experiencing very broad-based growth in checking accounts. This is really a very important message, very important to understand in terms of the way we are building our franchise.

The growth in checking accounts at our Company has been very strong, very broad-based. It is a very important driver of our Company's strong operating and financial results. What this growth in accounts indicates is that more and more households and small businesses are banking with Wells Fargo, and this generally leads to more business and higher cross-sell over time.

Slide 14 (sic - see slide 10) talks about our mortgage banking business. Mortgage banking had a great quarter in terms of originations and applications. Originations during the third quarter were up 25% linked-quarter. Applications were up -- were $194 billion, roughly 80% driven by refis and our second-highest quarter ever.

The chart here shows you the relationship between the average note rate on our servicing portfolio and the current 30-year mortgage rate. We think we are in a very unique period here with a unique combination of historically low absolute levels of new mortgage rates and, in combination with that, the widest-ever spread between new mortgage rates and rates on outstanding mortgages.

So as you can see, the average note rate on our servicing portfolio in the third quarter was 5.46%, compared with new money rates of 4.35%. What this means obviously is that the incentive to refi right now is huge. And by the way, the wealth effect for homeowners who are refi-ing is also very huge.

So given this unique combination of low mortgage rates and the wide spread to the servicing portfolio, the potential is very high for every homeowner in the United States that can refi to do so. And this could take several quarters to play out if rates remain as low as they are right now.

We have already had our second-highest mortgage application ever in the third quarter, just under $200 billion in applications. And so far in October, applications remain strong.

On slide 11, in our Wealth and Brokerage, Retirement business, revenue grew 2% from the second quarter. Earnings, as I said before, were relatively flat, although more than double from a year ago.

Client assets were up 5%. Managed account assets in the Retail Brokerage group were up 10% from the second quarter. And despite many retail investors being on the sidelines for the last couple of quarters, as I said client assets were up 5% linked-quarter and we are growing share.

This business closed $1.7 billion in loans during the quarter, double from a year ago. And for the first time since the merger, loans in this business were flat linked-quarter and were up slightly from August to September.

Cross-sell continues to grow in this business, as it has every month and every quarter since the merger, and now stands at 9.76 products relative to 9.45 products a year ago.

Deposits have been a great success in this business. Deposits in our Wealth and Brokerage business now stand at $127 billion. Essentially this business has brought back all the deposits it lost during the dark days in 2008 and has had incremental growth on top of that -- a terrific success story.

We now have 888 dedicated standalone brokerage offices across the country in basically all the markets where there is wealth that can be serviced.

The terms of our lending in the third quarter -- we continue to supply credit to both US consumers and businesses as we have for many quarters now. Since the merger we have supplied over $1 trillion in credit to US consumers and businesses, including $176 billion in the third quarter, up 17% from the second quarter. This is not just the mortgage originations that I mentioned before. We've had good activity in home equity, credit card, C&I loans, and commercial real estate.

In terms of loans outstanding on slide 13, here is essentially a Tale of Two Cities, if you will. We have been continuing to reduce our nonstrategic portfolio. This is a portfolio comprised of about $119 billion in loans where we exited or no longer write new business, including Pick-a-Pay, indirect home equity, legacy Wells Fargo Financial, indirect auto, Wells Fargo Financial debt consolidation, and commercial and CRE PCI loans. As I said, we have continued to work down these higher-risk portfolios, which have now declined over $30 billion since the second quarter of 2009.

The $616 billion in the so-called continuing portfolios are down less than 1% from the second quarter. So we clearly seem to have had a flattening out in our loan portfolio.

As you can see on the chart, many of our individual loan portfolios grew in the quarter. We had growth in auto dealer services, Wealth and Brokerage Retirement consumer loans, wholesale commercial real estate, Capital Finance, asset-backed finance, wholesale commercial banking, private student lending, and SBA.

This reflects in our view -- on the commercial side at least -- some inventory and CapEx financing, plus in both of our consumer and commercial businesses what we believe is market-share gains.

We continue to experience exceptionally strong core deposit growth, as you see on slide 14, particularly in checking and savings. Over 90% of our total funding right now is coming from core deposits; and about 90% of our core deposits are in the form of checking and savings accounts. Growth in deposits actually accelerated at Wells in the third quarter and continue to be broad-based, with growth in consumer and business checking accounts and deposits up in both wholesale and wealth, and growth in deposit and checking accounts in basically all parts of the country.

Now shift to our expenses on slide 15. Non-interest expense declined $500 million roughly or 4% from the second quarter. To be fair, most of this was in the operating losses, where we had higher legal accruals in the second quarter as well as in the second quarter having restructuring costs booked for the Wells Fargo Financial restructuring that we undertook in the second quarter.

We have continued to invest in our businesses throughout our footprint, including increasing Regional Banking platform banker FTEs in the East by some 1,250 FTEs this year so far. This investment in bankers is one of the key drivers of the improvement in cross-sell we are already realizing in the eastern footprint.

We had $476 million of merger expenses in the third quarter as we converted 363 Wachovia stores in Texas, Kansas, Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee. We have also converted many of our operating systems now, and in the third quarter our mutual fund business.

The merger is on track for the $5 billion of expense savings that we have consistently articulated.

I would like to mention here one of our highest expense items in the last year or two is obviously for problem asset management. In the third quarter we had over 24,000 people in some fashion or another working on loan modification and loss mitigation throughout Wells Fargo, and that amounts to roughly $750 million of personnel and foreclosed asset expense during the quarter. Obviously this will in the end not entirely go away, but over time we do expect this very high level of expenses to decline as problem assets and chargeoffs continue to decline.

I would like to talk briefly about the Wachovia merger. As I mentioned earlier, this is already a big success from a financial perspective.

Since the closing of the Wachovia acquisition at the end of 2008, we have now earned $21 billion in seven quarters. We have significantly reduced higher risk assets.

On the credit side, we are seeing better-than-expected credit quality and credit experience. For example, the life -of-loan losses that we now expect in the Wachovia loan portfolio will be less than the $40.9 billion write-down that we initially took. We still have remaining PCI loans on our books written down to roughly 64% of the remaining unpaid principal balance, even after using almost $23 billion of the nonaccretable difference.

On the expense side, as I mentioned we are realizing the expense saves from the merger. About 85% of the targeted $5 billion of consolidation savings has been realized.

Then on the revenue side, we are seeing multiple revenue synergies in every one of our businesses. To give you a couple of examples, as I mentioned earlier Wachovia's cross-sell ratio is growing nicely. We have grown auto dealer market share from 4.75% in the first quarter of 2009 to 6.84% in the third quarter of this year. The auto dealer business is an excellent business that we acquired with Wachovia that has benefited from the strength of the Wells Fargo brand and the strength of our balance sheet.

Within Wholesale Banking, the amount of investment banking revenue coming from our own commercial customers is up 21% this year, again benefiting from more legacy Wells Fargo commercial and corporate customers using Wells Fargo securities to underwrite their bond and equity financings.

In the Wealth business, cross-sell as I mentioned before is up to 9.76%, demonstrating the success this business is having at growing deposits, loans, and managed assets. Loan originations by financial advisors in this business were up 33% year-to-date compared with a year ago.

Let me now turn to credit quality, which continued to improve in the third quarter. To quickly summarize, net chargeoffs continued to decline, down 9% linked-quarter. The early credit quality indicators in most of the consumer and commercial portfolios were either stable or continued to improve.

Our PCI portfolio continued to perform better than originally expected. In the third quarter, $639 million of nonaccretable difference was reclassified to accretable yield, which will accrete to future income over the remaining life of the underlying loans. In addition, $202 million of nonaccretable difference was released into income for commercial loans that were paid off or sold.

At the end of the quarter we had $24.4 billion in allowance for credit losses; and in addition we had $14.5 billion in remaining nonaccretable difference. Because of the improved portfolio performance we released $650 million in reserves in the third quarter, and we currently expect additional releases absent significant deterioration in the economy.

Slide 18 shows you the trend in our chargeoffs, which as I have indicated a couple of times are now down both linked-quarter and substantially lower than the peak last year. Almost all loan categories -- other than a seasonal increase in auto -- showed a decline in chargeoffs during the quarter. So this is a very broad-based reduction in credit costs.

Slide 19 takes you through the early indicators in the large consumer loan portfolios, which as you can see have been stable to improving for a number of quarters now, including improvements in Pick-a-Pay, credit card, home equity, and personal credit management.

Non-accrual loans in total stabilized in the third quarter, with the exception of a relatively small number of new large corporate non-accruals and a modest increase in first -- in the mortgage portfolio. Non-accrual balances in all other loan portfolios were flat to down in the third quarter, including large declines in non-accruals in wholesale commercial real estate division, auto dealer services, Pick-a-Pay, and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.

Foreclosed assets and OREO increased from the second quarter, but approximately half of the increase was a shift from PCI loans to real estate owned and a $148 million increase in fully-insured Ginnie Mae loans. Keep in mind most of our loans and therefore most of our problem assets are in secured portfolios, and so the majority of the projected loss content of these assets has already been written down or is government insured.

As I mentioned, we released $650 million in the third quarter as you can see from our allowance trends on slide 22. And absent significant deterioration in the economy, as I mentioned a couple of times, we expect future reductions in the allowance, given the improvement we are likely to see in the portfolio.

Our appendix to this presentation includes a lot of detail on the Pick-a-Pay and other loan portfolios. I'd just like to mention here on slide 23, since this is a large portfolio, that the Pick-a-Pay portfolio continues to perform better than originally expected.

We have had great success in modifying loans in this portfolio, completing over 73,000 full-term modifications. And we have forgiven about $3.5 billion in principal since the acquisition a year and three-quarters ago. Because the modifications we have completed eliminate the payment option feature, at the end of the third quarter only 62% of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio still had payment options, down from 86% at the time of the merger.

In the non-PCI Pick-a-Pay portfolio, net charge-offs continued to decline and nonperforming loans declined for the first time now since the merger. 85% of the non-PCI portfolio is current; and 60% of the PCI portfolio is current, up 2% from the second quarter.

Let me now shift to our capital position, on slide 24. Tier 1 Common reached 8% in the third quarter. Through retained earnings and other internally generated sources we have been increasing Tier 1 Common by about 40 to 50 basis points per quarter now for many quarters.

We have always maintained very strong capital in our Company. Today's ratios, including the 8% Tier 1 Common, 9% Tier 1 leverage, and 10.9% Tier 1 Capital, are higher than they have ever been.

We have now purchased about $544 million in the Treasury TARP warrants year-to-date. So far that has had about a 5 basis point impact on Tier 1 Common, but is accretive to earnings per share. And we will continue to buy the warrants opportunistically.

A couple of points about Basel on slide 26. As you know, Basel III is still in proposed form and is subject to interpretation in many cases. But under our current interpretation of Basel III, our adjusted Tier 1 Common ratio under the new guidelines would have been about 6.9% at September 30, about 110 basis points below our reported 8% Tier 1 Common ratio.

When you look at the adjustments, the pro forma deductions from Tier 1 Common for mortgage servicing rights, deferred tax assets, investments in financial affiliates, and other smaller adjustments to Tier 1 Common amount to about $5 billion less Tier 1 Common as of September 30 or about 50 basis points on our reported Tier 1 Common ratio.

In terms of the increase in risk-weighted assets that would be associated with now capturing market risk, counterparty risk, operating risk, and other Basel II and Basel III risk elements would also be the equivalent of about 60 basis points or adding about $85 billion of risk-weighted assets to the ratio calculation.

We think one of the good things about Basel, in fact, is that it does better reflect relative risks taken by the different financial institutions. And we believe, given the fact that we don't have big concentrations of market risk, counterparty risk, and so on, that we will be affected substantially less than our peers.

Our MSR asset is comparable to some of the other large mortgage banks; but we have less deferred tax assets, equity and financial affiliates, trading assets, counterparty risk. And we also have less disqualified TruP securities than most of the other large bank peers.

With that, let me shift to give you an overview of the foreclosure and mortgage securitization issues. These are issues obviously that are very important to consumers, mortgage investors, and shareholders. But we believe that these issues have been somewhat overstated and, to a certain extent, misrepresented in the marketplace. I would like to be clear here on how they impact Wells Fargo specifically.

So starting on slide 26 first, as John already mentioned, foreclosure at Wells Fargo is a last resort, not a first resort. We work very early on with customers who are beginning to experience problems paying their mortgages and continue to do so for the length of time that the problems are being experienced.

80% of customers who are 60 days or more delinquent work with us, and when they do we are successful in helping seven out of every 10 avoid foreclosure. We attempt to contact customers on average over 75 times by phone and nearly 50 times by letter during the roughly 16 months that it takes for foreclosures to be completed once a borrower becomes delinquent.

Second, our foreclosure and securitization policies, practices, and controls in our view, are sound. To help ensure accuracy over the years, Wells Fargo has built controlled processes that link customer information with foreclosure procedures and documentation requirements.

Our process specifies that affidavit signers and reviewers are the same team member, not different people, and affidavits are properly notarized. Not all banks in our understanding do it this way. If we find errors, we fix them; and we fix them as promptly as we can.

We ensure loans in foreclosure are assigned to the appropriate party as necessary to comply with local laws and investor requirements, and legal documents related to securitizations are sound, and appropriate transfers of ownership were made.

Finally, we believe our repurchase exposure is very manageable and our experience continue to be different than some of our peers in that our unresolved repurchase demands outstanding were actually down at the end of the third quarter compared with second quarter, both in terms of number of outstanding demands and in total dollar balances.

On slide 27, the key point here really comes back to the quality of our servicing portfolio. One of the reasons we are so confident in terms of our risk exposure is we have a very high-quality servicing portfolio.

As shown on slide 27, 92% of our portfolio is current and only 2% is subprime. Roughly two-thirds of our servicing portfolio is comprised of loans sold to GSEs. 20% of the portfolio are loans that we retained or acquired and hold on our own balance sheet.

And of course the loss exposure -- to the extent any exists -- on these retained loans would be reflected in our own loan-loss reserves and PCI nonaccretable difference.

6% of our servicing portfolio is non-agency acquired servicing and private whole loan sales. The majority here is acquired servicing where Wells Fargo did not underwrite and securitize; and therefore we have no repurchase obligation.

Then the remaining 8% of our servicing portfolio is private securitizations. Wells Fargo originated the loan and therefore may have some repurchase risk. But importantly, 55% of these loans are from 2005 or earlier vintages; and 83% of this remaining 8% are prime loans.

We had only $69 million of repurchases related to private securitizations in the third quarter.

As shown on slide 28, the quality of our servicing portfolio is clearly reflected in our relatively low delinquency and foreclosure rates. As of the end of the second quarter, the most recently publicly available data, we had the lowest delinquency and foreclosure rates among large bank peers. Ours being 8.15%, some 335 basis points better than the industry average of 11.5%. And at the end of the third quarter our delinquency and foreclosure rate actually improved a basis point to 8.14%.

Most of the repurchase risk we have is with agencies and is essentially concentrated in the 2006 through early 2008 vintages, which for the industry contained a higher concentration of low or no doc and stated income mortgages. As shown on slide 29, our repurchase demands from GSEs for these vintages declined now for the second straight quarter, and we don't expect large losses on the pre-2006 or post-2008 vintages.

The balance of the loans outstanding in the 2006, 2008 vintages as I mentioned continue to decline. And the percentage of loans 120 days delinquent has also continued to decline.

Now delinquency, as you know, is an important measure of demands and are generally correlated to defaults. However, it is important to note that not all loans that become delinquent eventually are problematic, but are probably underwritten applicable contract terms, eventually may not actually result in a repurchase.

At the end of the third quarter, as I mentioned before, repurchase demand both in number of loans and loan balances was down, as you can see on slice 30. Another fact that I think is sometimes missed is that repurchase demand does not directly result in loss. Repurchase demands simply represent an initial request for information and loans being assessed for repurchase.

Of the repurchase demands we receive, only half roughly end up actually being repurchased, with half being cured by providing additional documentation that demonstrates a contractually required repurchase event did not occur. Of the loans that we do repurchase, roughly 20% to 25% of the borrowers we are able to make current through modification. On loans that we repurchase and are not able to modify, the average loss severity is about 50%.

So just to take you through the math to recap that, as an example, for every $100 million in demands we repurchase on average about $50 million. Of the $50 million we repurchase, $12.5 million gets modified. And on the loans we don't modify we would on average realize a loss of about $18.75 million. So if you do the math on the $3.8 billion of demand, if you will, in the third quarter you can see that our repurchase liability as of September 30 of $1.3 billion we believe to be adequate to cover these potential losses.

With that, I would like to now open up the call for any questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. I guess I will start with this whole mortgage repurchase for a change. I guess the first question is, why are you excluding the 2005 vintage? Do you think that is not going to be a material issue or has not been so far?

I think most people are looking at '05 through '07 vintages, and you show '06 to '07. So just wondering what your thoughts on '05 are.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, as far as we can tell, to the extent there will be problems we see it in the 2006, 2007, through midyear 2008 vintages. So we don't expect any material problems prior to that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then separately, the 83% of private securitizations that are prime -- I assume those are jumbo.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, mostly, yes.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, do you have any average statistics on the LTVs and FICOs there?

JOHN STUMPF: We will get back to you on that. I don't have those at the top of my head.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Then just separately, when I step back and we are reading all of these headlines that are impacting the mortgage business in one way or another, I guess the thing that jumps out to me is the servicing business really hasn't been priced for what we are seeing right now. Maybe the cost to you on the repurchase is a little bit less; but for some other competitors it seems like it is going to be a pretty high cost. So how do you think about just pricing I guess on the origination side as well as on the servicing side for your current production and going forward?

JOHN STUMPF: Matt, we're always looking at -- as we are looking at this business, first of all there is great scale here. You're right with your comments that when you have problem portfolios it costs more money. But if you look at -- I can't remember which slide it was; I think it was 28 -- that tells a pretty big story there about the quality of our portfolio. And that has -- is reflective of the success we are having in that portfolio and the profitability of that portfolio.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. I guess what I'm getting at is the servicing fees that you get as an industry I think are relatively modest to probably what some of the costs are either to modify some of these loans -- obviously the foreclosure process. So it just feels that that is going to be a much bigger burden for the business going forward, and it might make sense to start repricing some of that business right now.

JOHN STUMPF: The industry might do that, and of course we look at that. But clearly for the 8% that is past due, that is expensive. There is no question about that.

But you got to look at a whole, at a portfolio -- from a portfolio perspective. The industry will react to it. If this is a prolonged issue, I am sure new servicing will -- might be considered differently.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD C. BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning. Question for Howard. On the net interest margin, obviously lots of puts and takes go into net interest income and the margin. Could you talk about some of the offsets that you might have to run off of higher-yielding assets if the low rate environment persists, Howard?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, one of the offsets is that our security portfolio is a pretty long-duration portfolio, so keep that in mind.

The main one would be, as I mentioned before, the growth in checking accounts. I mean we are growing checking accounts and our Company had a very high rate of growth, reflecting again more and more customers doing business with us. And that's zero-cost money.

So the more rapidly we can grow checking accounts, apart from all of the other franchise benefits of doing that, is that the margin, that does help the net interest margin.

JOHN MCDONALD: While you do have some high-yielding securities, it also seems like you have some liquidity in very low-yielding stuff in terms of dry powder for the future. Is that still true?

HOWARD ATKINS: That is very much true. You know, depending upon how you define liquidity we have as much as $100 billion of potential investment power on the balance sheet. Now, of course we would hope that that gets used by loan demand picking up, and we have already seen some activity both in the second quarter, now in the third quarter as well.

So that would be our wish that that is how the liquidity gets used up, so we can serve our customers that way. But if rates tick up at some point, we have a significant capacity to build the balance sheet.

JOHN STUMPF: But, John, I would also add to that -- here comes into play the beauty of this operating model. We have a diversity of geography, diversity of businesses, diversity of revenue stream. About half of our revenue comes from fee for services; the other half from the margin.

When one horse has a headwind, the other one has a tailwind and pulls a little harder. And while these are not perfect offsets, if we continue to serve customers and customers like doing business with us, it is a privilege to serve them, and in these markets we are outgrowing. Like Howard said on the checking account side, we are outgrowing -- there is not 11% growth in checking accounts in New Jersey. We are taking share.

No question there are some headwinds if rates stay low. But that is why you hear a lot of -- everybody in the industry now is talking about cross-sell. We have been talking about it for 20 years.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Is the spread on the warehouse comparable to overall margin on the Company, Howard, currently?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, the warehouse loans, to the extent we are writing mortgages at 4.5%-plus, the yield we are getting is higher than the margin.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Just a question on the mortgage applications -- very high this quarter. Is that typically a pretty good pullthrough to next quarter's originations, give or take?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, I think you can assume that. The pipeline was up substantially during the third quarter, which does bode well for fourth-quarter originations. Then in addition as I mentioned earlier, so far in the fourth quarter we have continued to see very strong application volumes.

JOHN MCDONALD: The final thing was just two more questions on the mortgage. The origination gains were very high this quarter, what looks like the gain on sale margin.

Can you just talk about origination margins and also just a little detail on servicing and why the hedge income was down, and if you have changed your strategy there?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, origination margins in the industry remain relatively wide, which is what you would expect given the demand for mortgages being as substantial as it is.

On the servicing side, the main, subtle difference in terms of the hedge between the third quarter and prior quarters, as you would expect as mortgage rates continue to come down a lot, the natural business hedge if you will, the origination side of the business acts a little bit better as a natural hedge to the overall Mortgage company. So the size of the hedge, the financial hedge if you will, in relationship to the overall servicing and overall business was a little bit less in the third quarter than it would have been in prior quarters. And that is one of the reasons why the hedge result was down.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Hi, thanks. Good morning. So just to make sure I understood. The size of your hedge comes down, so you have less earnings there; but your gain on sale is higher. So it is kind of a wash, at least.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, that's why we have always said we have a balanced mortgage business, so good example.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. A couple of other questions. One is on the Basel III; and you laid out where you would be point in time 3Q based on what you know today. I am wondering if you are thinking about any kind of mitigation as you move forward. Or should we just take that effective RWA and keep that constant in the model?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, there may be small things we do, but we have a much better situation here, as I mentioned, than the other big banks, which is why we don't really have to do a lot of mitigation.

Some of the other banks are going to be onboarding hundreds of millions -- hundreds of billions of dollars worth of RWA. As I say, we are just not in many of those businesses or as exposed to many of those businesses as some of the others.

Frankly, it's a good thing that we don't have to make adjustments here because to the extent, in my view, you have to make adjustments or take mitigating action, that winds up in the end with less earnings for those companies that have to take mitigating action.

So we think we are in good shape here. As I said, we are at roughly 6.9% as of the third quarter. I don't want to make a prediction. I sort of gave a general statement about being over 7% in the, quote unquote, next couple of quarters.

You can see how rapidly our capital has been growing per quarter -- 30, 40, 50 basis points. So it wouldn't take that many quarters to get over 7% if are already at 6.9%. But again we don't know how these final rules are going to shake out and what the ultimate interpretations will be on some of these things.

BETSY GRASECK: Then some people have been asking about the MSR. I think as a percentage of total it is above the current standard. But are you thinking of it in terms of how it factors into Basel III over time, starting 2014 with a 20% (multiple speakers)?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know we -- the MSR valuation is at a cyclical low point right now. And yes, there may be things down the road on the MSR that we can think about doing that would mitigate some of the volatility, if you will, that gets created in the capital ratios just from that asset.

But that is something that the industry is going to be taking a look at, because as you know we all have an MSR asset. What I can tell you is right now that is not a big deal for us.

BETSY GRASECK: Right, no, I realize that. But in mitigating you are talking about different ways of accounting for it, or --?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, there's different elections you can have on accounting. There are -- the institutional arrangements in the marketplace may get modified. So we will have to see how this shakes out.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. Then lastly on the dividends, how are you thinking about payout ratio?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, first of all, Betsy, we are eager to return more of our capital back to our shareholders. They have been very patient.

We had historically paid in that 35% to 40% range, give or take. We will have to see how we pace into that. Obviously, it would be in consultation with our regulator. But we are just eager to get back to a more appropriate level.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, yes, because it looks like your earnings have been improving and consistently improving. So I'm just wondering what the trigger point is. Is it the systemic risk buffer getting decided?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, things are becoming clearer. There is more clarity this quarter than there was last quarter, so we are getting closer to that point. But I can't -- I don't know if I can add anything to it other than we want to get there as soon as all parties line up.

BETSY GRASECK: Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, everyone. Just a couple things. I guess first, you talked about the commitments for commercial real estate lending in the Wholesale business up 44% sequentially. I just wondered if you could talk a bit more about the opportunities you are seeing there and the appetite for growing that portfolio, and just some of the risk-adjusted returns in that business.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, you know, we have had a long history in that business. We like that business. If you look at legacy Wells, we have had people that have done that business for a long period of time very successfully -- and, frankly, quite successfully during this downturn.

Secondly, we are putting more feet on the street not only in the commercial area but in our Business Banking area. So we are making lots of investments in relationships with companies.

So, as others, smaller players and other players, are internally focused, looking at managing their balance sheet or managing problem assets, we are finding lots of opportunity to engage with existing customers and new clients about that business and business in general.

So that is not new to us. This business is not new to us.

I should also tell you, Joe, and I think you know this about our business, some of our strongest cross-sell is actually in the Wholesale side of the business. So this is not just about capturing a loan. This is about winning a new relationship or further developing an existing relationship.

So the loan isn't the end-all. It's relationship. So when you think of profitability, you have got to think of it in more holistically.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, that makes sense. Then, Howard, I guess you touched on this a little bit, but I guess if you could update us a bit on the trends in the C&I and middle market lending portfolios, just in terms of customer demand or line utilization levels, and also what kind of competitive dynamics you see now in terms of pricing pressures and maybe terms.

HOWARD ATKINS: As I mentioned, we have been very aggressive on the commitment side. So lines on commitments have been growing.

But to be fair, the actual line utilization remains low. It hasn't gotten much lower, but it is sort of relatively flat the last quarter or two, but still is at relatively low levels.

We like this business. This is bread-and-butter business for us. We did see some pickup in activity in the quarter.

I guess the other thing I would mention, and we have talked about this in the past, when demand generally does comes back in C&I we should be the primary beneficiary of that, because we have all the other business with many of these clients in terms of their cash management and all the other products and services.

This is very similar to the experience had back in 2002. When loan demand came back we gained a fairly significant amount of market share during that period. But we're not at that point yet.

Pricing is still appropriate as far as we can tell for the risks. We are not doing anything on terms to give away the business. So we would like to see more business there, but at our terms and pricing

JOE MORFORD: Okay. That's very helpful. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, Calyon.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Hi, CLSA. Good morning. Just a follow-up. So what is the percentage of the loan utilization? I just use that as a measure for how much loan demand there is.

What is your feeling about loan demand?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, on balance, Mike -- and again you're talking about composition of portfolios. But roughly in the low 30s on commercial line utilization, and that has been relatively consistent for a couple of quarters now.

Again as we say, we are seeing somewhat increased activity, but it is not as robust as we would like to see it be. As I said, we think we are picking up market share because we have got so many relationships and all the other cross-sell. So we'll just have to see when demand comes back.

JOHN STUMPF: Mike, I think one of the things, one of the keys, is our increase in commitments is much greater than what is happening in the portfolio, the outstandings. So we are making investments today, spending money today, to win new clients, service existing clients, that we're not seeing the benefit of yet.

So when this thing does turn around, we will get a boost. It will be like a springboard. And we're willing to make those investments because those are good long-term relationships or new customers who really value a company who is going to stick by them.

HOWARD ATKINS: And, of course, we get the fee income on the commitments.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure.

HOWARD ATKINS: That is one reason our loan fees have been so strong is that we have been, as I said, very successful in growing commitments.

MIKE MAYO: Then on slide 20 you showed non-accrual loans stabilizing. But there was an uptick in both consumer and commercial non-accruals in terms of the inflows from the second to the third quarter. Not much, but it's a little bit of an uptick.

Is that just timing? Or is that just the economy slowing down a little bit?

HOWARD ATKINS: Neither. You know, we had one -- as I mentioned earlier, the first mortgages on the consumer side, which could be more seasonal just one quarter to the next. All other consumer portfolios were flat to down.

Then on the commercial side it was largely a relatively small number of large corporate loans that went non-accrual. And most of the other commercial portfolios actually saw declines in inflows and down.

MIKE MAYO: Both questions are really just trying to get to -- from your perspective, since you are across the country now, is the economy getting worse? A lot worse? Do we need QE2? What is your read from the bottom-up perspective?

JOHN STUMPF: Well you know, Mike, I travel, like probably a lot of others, a lot; and I am in a lot of different geographies. And I think it depends a bit on the type of business you are in.

But as a general statement, many businesses are doing quite well. I mean I don't know what the last number is, but there is more than $1 trillion of liquidity that is on corporate balance sheets -- small business, medium-sized business, large business -- that is sitting in our banks and other banks.

I don't know that I have a view on QE2 or whatever or other stimuli and so forth. But I think that the primary factor when you talk to businesses -- when they talk about their issues -- it is not that they can't get a loan. That is a bit of an urban myth.

In fact we have our teams marching double-time looking for lending opportunities. In more cases than not, it is a bunch of factors. Consumers are deleveraging, being more selective in what they spend. All these different reform measures and so forth cause uncertainty.

So there is just a variety of things, and I don't know that one part of the country is favored versus another.

Some states have more foreclosure issues and higher unemployment, so we deal with unemployment as low as in the high 4%s, low 5%s in the middle part of the country to over 12% here in California. So we see a lot of different situations.

I don't think there is any way of categorizing one versus the other.

MIKE MAYO: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: A couple of things here. Howard, you have got more unrealized bond gains than I guess just about anybody in the industry. Would you give us your thoughts about harvesting some of these as we go down the road possibly toward higher rates someday?

How do you think about that? And what makes that determination?

HOWARD ATKINS: A couple things, Nancy. Yes, we do have a substantial amount of unrealized bond gains and it actually went up in the third quarter. The framework there is not so much to take a gain for the sake of taking a gain; but if we do come to the point where we believe that rates are likely to go up, one of the things we can consider doing to manage against that would be to sell assets.

If you remember back in 2003, 2004, that is exactly what we did. But the way we did it back then was to sell our lowest yielding assets, not our highest yielding assets.

So again the framework here is not pick; not take the gain for the sake of taking the gain or look to maximize the upfront gain, but to clear the way, if you will, for repositioning the portfolio when rates go up and do so by selling the lowest yielders. There may even be other assets on the balance sheet that we can consider doing so other than the securities portfolio.

But the good news is when we come to that point, likelihood is we don't have anything in the portfolio that is at a loss right now to speak of. If we take that action it would result in a gain.

NANCY BUSH: Secondly, just you mentioned about on the 13 basis point impact on NIM sequentially. I think you mentioned the shedding of some strategic runoff portfolios, etc. Would you just speak to whether you are beginning to see substantial runoff from Wells Fargo Financial and the discontinued lines there, and how you see that impacting margin over the next year or so?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, that is a portfolio. The debt consolidation portfolio for Financial is included now in the so-called nonstrategic grouping. Again my general comment is as those loans continue to -- we continue to grind down that portfolio and the other portfolios, we know we are giving up some margin by doing so. But of course we're also paving the way for less risk and lower potential chargeoffs down the road.

So net-net it is a benefit to either risk or earnings or both, even though it may not be a benefit to the margin.

NANCY BUSH: John, I have just got one question for you. I know you went through your thoughts about foreclosure and the fact that you have been very careful, etc. etc. But there have been a couple of instances detailed in the press of Wells Fargo robo-signing etc. And there is a great deal of speculation that at some point you guys are going to cave and we are going to find out all this bad stuff about your foreclosure procedures.

Could you just comment on that? Was this robo-signing incident an isolated one? Or could you just talk about that?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, you might be talking about the one that was in the press regarding Washington State. In that case the judge actually found in our favor and that we had done things properly.

I think the key issue is what Howard covered on page 26. I don't know if I could say it any better than that. I don't know how other companies do it, but in our Company our process has -- the affidavit signer and reviewer are the same team member. And we believe these issues -- they are properly notarized.

And if we find an error we will fix it. I mean that is just -- humans do make errors, but that is what our process is. One reviewer, one signer, same person.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Morning, all. Howard, I'm going to follow-up on Nancy's question, she actually stole it from me, if you will. What is the actual gains in the third quarter in the unrealized gains in the securities portfolio?

HOWARD ATKINS: $9 billion pretax.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. A follow-up, unrelated follow-up. Can you remind me, when do we see the $0.5 billion of M&A expense that is related to the merger-related charges of Wachovia? When does that start to wane on a quarterly basis?

HOWARD ATKINS: Good question. We are obviously coming up on two-thirds done with the integration process. Many of the non-branch related systems have now been converted. We have done the overlapping states on the branch side.

But we are really now coming up to the big crunch, if you will, from an expense point of view and a process point of view, in converting all of the non-overlapping states on the East Coast up into the Northeast. So it is going to be another couple of quarters.

In fact, we may actually have higher merger integration expenses in the fourth quarter and the first couple quarters of 2011 before this trails off during the course of 2011.

JOHN STUMPF: But Chris, we are still looking at finishing this -- substantially be finished by the end of 2011.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Great. Thank you for your color.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. You've talked a fair amount about the checking account growth. Could you describe the process, like what you are selling against and whether you are seeing competitors make changes in order to offset the lost overdraft fee revenues?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, first of all, customers like doing business with us, and it's our privilege to serve them. We have taken the tack for many years now that we are going to be -- we are going to serve customers when, where, and how they want to be served.

We are not going to steer them somehow to an ATM because it might be cheaper to serve a customer there. We don't think in those terms. We think in terms of the customer is at the center of what we do.

We invest in stores. We think we have the best store network, and stores matter.

We think we have the best online offering. Our ATM innovation and the services we provide there to customers are industry-leading.

And our phones, we have ways of serving customers there, especially the high-value customers, in a very distinguished and differentiated way.

So when you think of those four channels and mobile, and they behave like a distribution community, you win more business. I have said this many times to many people. I get in the office about 5.30, by a quarter to 6 I read the deposit report from the day before.

And checking is such a big part of that. You know that we sell about three-fourths of our -- more than two-thirds of our checking accounts through a package. And these are well-thought-out package products to help customers succeed.

So as we move forward now -- and as I mentioned in my comments, regulatory reform will change the way we get paid for -- some way we get paid for our business. And this will be a balancing process.

We are going to tighten our belts. We will get paid differently in some cases for the products and services. But at the end of the day our goal is right where our vision of values is -- helping customers succeed financially and satisfying all their needs.

And that strategy is winning in the marketplace because we are outgrowing the natural growth in those places and we are taking share from others.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Okay. A separate question. A bunch of people asked about MSRs. Could you talk about the outlook for the valuation of MSRs given that you're going to be in this low rate environment, but it is not clear whether the pace of refi is going to increase? How do you think the MSR valuation, already at a pretty low level, tracks as we go forward?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, we are carrying it now at really historically low levels, and it remains to be seen. I don't know whether the pace of refis picks up or not.

But net-net in terms of economics this kind of refi market helps earnings, not hurts earnings, with rates being down at this level, even with accelerated refis in the marketplace.

Secondly, as you may remember, we tend to pick up market share during big refi waves. So this is good for us both in terms of just the economics of what happens during refis as well as our market position.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thanks.

OPERATOR: Jason Goldberg, Barclays Capital.

JASON GOLDBERG, ANALYST, BARCLAYS CAPITAL: Thank you. Just looking at the average balance sheet, it looks like yields on residential commercial MBS, I guess that is non-agency stuff, went from -- increased almost 300 basis points linked-quarter; but the balance is unchanged.

I am not sure if that is tied to changes in accretable yields. Could you maybe just flesh that out?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, we had in the quarter some payoffs of previously impaired CMBSes, so this is stuff that we would have written down that actually improved. And that got reflected in the yield in the quarter.

JASON GOLDBERG: Okay, I guess there are a lot of moving pieces here. I guess how would you view I guess the net interest margin without changes and without the accretable yield impact, either the absolute or the linked-quarter changes? Maybe talk to your outlook on a core basis, and then maybe talk to how you see the whole accretable yield thing playing out go forward.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, we're not going to give guidance on that. There are so many factors, as you know, that impact the margin.

But the point I made before is that the bulk of the 13 basis point drop was due to the change in loan resolution income that went through the quarter, right? So we continue to have loan resolution income; it is just that it was down a couple hundred million dollars in the quarter. And that really was the main change.

Interestingly, if you take that away, as I say, even though we had decline in earning assets and loans, our net interest income -- if you again put aside the loan resolution part of it -- was not really down in the quarter.

Again, that comes back to the fact that we are growing deposits. We may not at the margin right now be earning 4% on our -- on every single checking account that we get. But every single checking account that we grow in this Company is earning something, and it is showing up on the margin.

JOHN STUMPF: You know, another way of saying that, Jason, is the margin is a result of what we do, not the reason of what we do things. We run the business the way we think is best for our constituents, and it results in a margin. We don't wake up in the morning saying we have to have a margin of 4.25% or 4.50% or 4% or incremental business to be done at that. We think it is really the result of.

JASON GOLDBERG: Got you. That's helpful. Then unrelated I guess credit card fees are actually up linked-quarter despite I guess a lot of things being down due to the CARD Act. I guess anything in particular going on there?

HOWARD ATKINS: Activity and building the business we get. As we penetrate our customer base with more cards --

JOHN STUMPF: Especially on the Wachovia side.

HOWARD ATKINS: On the Wachovia side in particular, and as activity grows in the Company you get more fees for it. So that is a good story, because that did offset -- the growth in that business actually offset the impact of the CARD Act in the quarter. More than offset it.

JASON GOLDBERG: Great, thank you.

OPERATOR: [Ron Mandle], GIC.

RON MANDLE, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, thanks. In regard to fees, deposit fees were down $300 million in the quarter. I am wondering how much of the Reg. E effect has been felt at this point.

HOWARD ATKINS: I'm sorry. I'm missed the end of your question, Ron.

RON MANDLE: How much of the Reg. E effect has been felt? So in other words, where -- how far down -- how much further down do we have to go in deposit service charges?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, we quantify the Reg. E impact as $380 million in the quarter. So $380 million down from Reg. E and only $300 million down in total. So we actually did have some growth in service charges.

RON MANDLE: Right, but what percent of the Reg. E effect has been felt now, was really my question.

HOWARD ATKINS: We're assuming roughly the same kind of number, maybe a little bit higher in the fourth quarter.

RON MANDLE: I'm sorry, same effect or same level of deposit base?

JOHN STUMPF: It could be a bit more because some of this went into place -- it was staggered in during the quarter.

HOWARD ATKINS: Now, again, keep in mind, Ron, that this is before any actions that we may take to offset this in coming quarters in terms of pricing, product changes, and so on and so forth. So that is sort of the gross impact.

RON MANDLE: So, in other words, we could -- I just want to be 100% clear. We could see the same dollar drop in the fourth quarter from Reg. E?

HOWARD ATKINS: See the same dollar impact, right? So we already had $380 million off in the third quarter. That might go up a tad in the fourth quarter. Again I don't know exactly yet what the number will be because it will depend a lot on customer experience.

But it won't go down by another $380 million in the fourth quarter, right? We have already had $380 million.

RON MANDLE: I'm sorry, I am really slow on this. But so are -- is it the drop that will be the same or the current level that will be the same in the fourth quarter? Of the $1.1 billion.

HOWARD ATKINS: There may be some additional drop in service charges in the fourth quarter from the third quarter, depending upon what customer experience looks like. But it won't be another $380 million because from the second quarter to the third quarter we had -- this was the first -- third quarter was the first quarter we had the impact.

RON MANDLE: Right. Then in the fourth quarter, by the end of the fourth quarter, you should have felt 100% of the impact.

HOWARD ATKINS: Correct.

RON MANDLE: Good. Thanks. Then I had a question about Tier I Common. On the slide on page 25, the reported Tier 1 Common ratio was up 40 bps, but the pro forma was up 70. I am wondering if there is anything special in (multiple speakers).

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, I am glad you asked that question, because on the -- given the way Basel III works, again you have the deferred tax assets and other items there. Our deferred tax asset position is being realized very quickly because we are charging off the PCI loan. So the way PCI works is we already reserved for it two years ago; but as we actually charge off the loans, there is no accounting impact on earnings, but we get the tax benefit realized right away.

So you should expect to see our Tier 1 Common on the Basel III basis rise more quickly than our retained earnings would be in the Tier 1 Common as reported.

RON MANDLE: Okay, thanks. That was my question. Then one last question. You mentioned, Howard, that the rise in commercial non-performers reflected a few large corporate credits. I guess I was a little surprised at that, because Moody's and so on are reporting much lower corporate defaults and everything. So I was wondering if you could elaborate on that point.

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, we have a large corporate portfolio now, and from one quarter to the next it goes up, it goes down.

JOHN STUMPF: It's lumpy.

RON MANDLE: Was there any concentrations?

HOWARD ATKINS: No.

RON MANDLE: In that? Okay. Thanks very much.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. Just a quick follow-up on the deposit fee issues. I believe you guys lost a federal case on high to low regarding debit fees. I didn't know if, A, that had been -- you had been able to get a stay on that issue; and, B, if that does hold -- and I think it requires you to stop high to low on debit on November 30 -- would that affect -- how much of that might affect your deposit fee income.

JOHN STUMPF: We are appealing that and I don't know if there is anything more to say about that right now. It is on appeal.

FRED CANNON: Okay, thanks, John. Then just curious on -- regarding the Basel numbers, Howard, and maybe I missed it. You are only 10 basis points away on the Tier 1 Common according to the best guess at the calculations; I know it is preliminary at this point in time.

Any guidance where the total Tier 1, which was the 8.5% requirement, would be under Basel?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, again you can roughly add the spread on our reported ratios between the two. So you've got some 200 basis points -- 200 to 250 basis points spread between Tier 1 Common and Tier 1 regulatory and our case. Now there is some disallowance for TruPs.

But in the case of our TruPS, of the $19 billion or so of TruPS that count against Tier 1 but not Tier 1 Common, about $7 billion of the $19 billion converts to qualifying capital; so we're down to $11 billion or $12 billion, which right now would only amount to about 50 basis points or so on the Tier 1 ratio.

So again, you can roughly assume 200 to 250 basis point spread between the two, Tier 1 Common and Tier 1 regulatory.

FRED CANNON: Under Basel. So you would get credit for the perpetual preferred you have and then this $7 billion of TruPS it would convert. Is that --?

HOWARD ATKINS: Correct, exactly. Yes, exactly.

FRED CANNON: All right, perfect. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Carole Berger, Soleil Securities.

CAROLE BERGER, ANALYST, SOLEIL SECURITIES: Hi there. Just a little minutia. Last quarter you took about $400 million in litigation reserves, but you didn't talk about that this quarter. Anything?

HOWARD ATKINS: No, we are down from the second quarter and nothing special in this quarter.

CAROLE BERGER: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR Capital Markets.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR CAPITAL MARKETS: Yes, thank you very much. A question on mortgage banking. Right now you even mentioned your getting 4, 4.5 points gross on those gain on sale margins. It's really been a big surprise for the whole industry I think how well it's done, and I think we are looking for another strong fourth quarter.

How long do you think it can last as rate is sitting down here at 250? And is this a new change in policy in the industry?

Because I don't -- it appears that a lot of the big guys who controlled the space didn't really expand capacity. Is it just a really good sign for the whole industry in general?

HOWARD ATKINS: The margins being a good sign? Well again, we expanded the capacity. We have been adding actually pretty significantly to the capacity, which is one of the reasons why our mortgage earnings are what they are.

I am not quite sure what -- where you are going with the question. Our margins are very good right now. We're adding capacity. We are getting tremendous flows of business. It is continuing into the fourth quarter.

So -- and if rates remain at these kind of levels I would expect this to continue for at least another couple of quarters.

JOHN STUMPF: And these are also very good rates for consumers.

HOWARD ATKINS: Great.

JOHN STUMPF: These are also big wins. Consumers on average are making up over 100 basis points of reduction on their loans. So this is one of these win-wins.

PAUL MILLER: No, I guess where I am going for this -- is this a change in the overall industry? Because at times when we have seen rates fall like this capacity was added so quickly and the gain on sale margins were not sustainable.

I mean I was hoping that these gain on sale margins will be much more sustainable than they were in the past and the lumpiness in the mortgage banking earnings may be more smoother.

JOHN STUMPF: If you think about the past, in the past there was a time when there was very little margin in the prime business because there was outside margins in the subprime business. Like I said just a couple seconds ago, or Howard said, we are adding capacity. This is good for consumers. It is good for the industry.

So it's -- things change, and we are making a fair return on this. I don't know there is much more to the story. We continue to add capacity, adjusted as we see business flows.

PAUL MILLER: I guess -- can we expect to see these type of margins you think for the next couple quarters then? We will leave it at that.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we don't give guidance on that, but you can expect that we will --

HOWARD ATKINS: If demand remains strong margins are going to be good, right?

JOHN STUMPF: We are going to serve our customers.

PAUL MILLER: Okay, thank you very much, gentlemen.

OPERATOR: Andrew Marquardt, Evercore Partners.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, EVERCORE PARTNERS: Morning, guys. Wanted to circle back on the mortgage securitization issue and the repurchase demands. Can you just give us a sense of where you think we are in the claims cycle, if you will? In terms of how -- are we through 50% of the amount of claims you expect, or 75%? How do you think about it?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well again, as we said earlier, we believe that most of the issues are in those 2006, 2007, through mid 2008 vintages. We have been working on those vintages with the agencies for five, six, seven quarters now.

So I can't tell you precisely how far through it we are with it, but it has got to be the majority of the vintage -- the loans of those vintages -- are already behind us now.

And as we indicated earlier that is probably one of the reasons why we are seeing repurchase demand requests actually decline in the last two quarters.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Any repurchase requests from the private label side?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, we had $69 million worth in the (multiple speakers) quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: Very modest.

HOWARD ATKINS: Very modest, and again the reason for that is that that is a very small part of our servicing portfolio. Unlike many of the other big bank peers we didn't do a lot of private-label securitization.

JOHN STUMPF: It's a small part, and most of that is part is prime.

HOWARD ATKINS: Most of it is prime business and pre-2006 vintages. So we don't see it as being a big issue.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay. Then maybe I missed it -- in terms of you had mentioned at least in the release about the reserves continuing to go down. I think you had mentioned.

Any color in terms of the degree? How we should think about the pace of that continuing? Also maybe in the context of NPAs not going down, how do we think about reserve release going forward?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well again, we can't really give you guidance on that. The allowance that we had at the third quarter was adequate for the risks that we see. If you want to think about it maybe overly simplistically, our chargeoffs per quarter are now down $1.3 billion from the peak. So you can do your own math in terms of what that means for an annualized charge-off rate, and draw some conclusions about where the allowance might go over a period of time if charge-offs remain low and continue to go down.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Got it. Okay, thanks. Then the last question is on capital. When in fact you do get the green light to have more flexibility in deploying capital, what would be the top priorities from your perspective?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, I think John said it before, the dividend is a top priority for us and it's important to our shareholders. Our shareholders have been very patient with us. So that would be the first place to go.

We have been and will continue to buy back the warrants when it's economically beneficial to our shareholders for us to do so. And --

JOHN STUMPF: We will continue to invest in our business.

HOWARD ATKINS: We will continue to invest in the business. We hopefully will be able to do some opportunistic share repurchase.

Another use of capital -- we talked about the TruP securities before. We may call some of those to the extent that we can replace with lower-cost senior debt. So there's lots of ways we can improve earnings for our shareholders by deploying capital going forward.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Great, thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. Well, thanks, everybody. We ran a little over time but it was important, and we thank you for your interest in our Company. We will see you next quarter at this time. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Wells Fargo third-quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | i81402 : Commercial Banking | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities
   NS
e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | gcon : Consumer Affairs | ccrm : Customer Relationship Management | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c15 : Performance | c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter | c31 : Marketing
   RE
usa : United States | switz : Switzerland | dach : DACH Countries | eurz : Europe | namz : North America | weurz : Western Europe
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020101103e6ak000ru
  


 HD
 Q2  2010 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
12,300 words
   PD
21 July 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings conference call.

All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions)

   TD
I would now like to turn today's call over to Director of Investor Relations, Mr. Jim Rowe. Please go ahead, sir.

JIM ROWE, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Good morning. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf, and CFO, Howard Atkins, will review second-quarter 2010 results and answer your questions.

Before we get started I would like to remind you that our second-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings including the Form 8-K and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits.

In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com.

I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Jim, and thanks to everyone who has joined us on this call. We appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo. I will turn this call over to our CFO, Howard Atkins, shortly for a more in-depth look at our quarterly results but first I would like to comment briefly on the strength of our franchise, the status of our Wachovia merger integration, and the current regulatory environment.

As to our financial performance, our second-quarter results again reflected the underlying strength of our company with all three business segments contributing to our profitability. Our net income was up about 20% from last quarter and represents just the fourth time in our history that we have had quarterly net income over $3 billion. More importantly, we are winning new business every day, seeing growth in certain loan portfolios, and more instances where conversations are turning into new relationships and new commitments.

It is early yet to call these sustainable trends but it is real progress and it is in the right direction.

While the uneven economic recovery continued to create some headwinds to loan and revenue growth, we have continued to see the core power of our diversified business model at work. For example, we think it is meaningful that Q2 revenue held up well versus last year despite year-over-year decline in mortgage banking revenue of about $1 billion along with a steady decline in earning assets over the year, a real testament to our diversified business model's resilience.

Continuing to focus intensely on helping our customers succeed financially has allowed us to perform well through various economic cycles, a hallmark of our business.

In addition, we are now about halfway through our three-year Wachovia merger integration plan. We successfully integrated the California Wachovia stores in April and this weekend we will integrate Texas, our largest overlapping market, and Kansas which will complete the integration of all of our overlapping markets. During the quarter we also completed one of the industry's largest trust conversions, $150 billion in trust assets representing about 81,000 accounts.

In addition, we completed the conversions in our unsecured loan portfolios, credit card rewards program, and mutual fund businesses. And we have now done a lot of the heavy lifting to prepare for the integration of our East Coast markets which begins in September with Alabama, Mississippi, and Tennessee followed in the fourth quarter with Georgia. Our entire team is working exceptionally well together, and culturally and financially this merger is exceeding my expectations. I couldn't be more excited about the opportunities ahead.

Now there is no question that our industry is experiencing some uncertainty regarding the impact of regulatory reform, so let me spend a few minutes talking about the changing landscape based on what we know today. First of all, Wells Fargo has always been focused on doing the right thing for our customers and adhering to a philosophy of transparency with all of our stakeholders. Those are core to what we do.

While portions of the newly signed legislation are consistent with that operating philosophy, which is positive, we remain concerned that some aspects may have unintended negative effects for America's financial system, for consumers, and for businesses. Right now we are proceeding with our efforts to gain a better understanding of all the components and we will work internally with our regulators on implementation plans as the rulemaking process evolves.

At this stage it is too soon to definitively estimate the financial impact given the varying implementation timelines for different components of the bill, the need for some additional clarifications since the actual rule writing is still on the horizon, and the size of potential financial offsets. Nevertheless, we believe the impact on Wells Fargo overall will be lower than the impact of our large bank peers, particularly in areas such as proprietary trading, derivatives, and private equity.

In areas where we will be affected, like debit interchange, there is simply insufficient information at this point for us to make a determination as to the next economic outcome. Any estimates would be premature in our view; it is just too soon.

With that being said, Wells Fargo joins others in our industry in wholly dedicating our talents and resources to the biggest priority we share with the American public, the return to a vibrant US economy. To that end Wells Fargo is continuing to supply significant credit to the US economy, including consumers, small and medium-sized businesses, and large corporate clients; about $990 billion over the last 18 months. We have also helped more than half a million people keep their homes since January 2009.

We believe Wells Fargo has shown that its business model remains successful throughout these tough economic times and we have positioned our franchise well for better economic times ahead. We have grown our customer base by providing a full spectrum of products and services to meet their needs throughout this period. We have an unmatched distribution platform nationwide, we have maintained our increased market share across many of our businesses, and our leadership team is encouraged by signs of continued improvement in the credit landscape.

In my view, Wells Fargo has a banking franchise second to none in this country and we believe we are right where we need to be to continue to meet customers' financial needs while growing our business profitably. Now let me turn this over to Howard.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, John. My remarks this morning will follow the slide presentation included in the quarterly supplement available on the Wells Fargo Investor Relations website. Page 3 of the presentation gives you a very broad overview of the quarter and the topics I would like to cover today.

I will start my remarks with some detail about our earnings of $3.1 billion, very strong of course, and I will conclude my remarks with some detail about our balance sheet and how that positions us for even more growth going forward. In between I would like to leave you with three important take always about our quarter.

First, what you saw in the quarter was the Wells Fargo business model at work. With $21.4 billion in revenue the Wells Fargo growth machine continued to fuel revenue and market share gains across many of our businesses in the quarter. Second, the combination with Wachovia is producing better-than-expected results and in particular incremental revenue. And, third, credit quality clearly improved significantly in the second quarter even earlier and more significantly than we originally projected.

Slide four goes through our earnings for you. Wells Fargo earned $3.1 billion in the quarter producing record net income applicable to common of $2.9 billion, up 21% from the first quarter. Since our merger with Wachovia we have earned $18 billion reflecting the strength of our franchise and the benefits of the merger.

Earnings last year, of course, were affected by higher credit costs as well as strong mortgage hedging results. Earnings so far in 2010 reflect lower mortgage hedging results as the yield curve has moderated but businesses as diverse as commercial banking, investment banking, asset base lending, auto dealer services, debit card, global remittance, mortgage servicing, and many, many others have had strong top-line and/or bottom-line results so far this year.

Now in an organization with as many business activities as ours there are always pluses and minuses in every quarter, and while in my view the results are the results, I will quickly mention a view of the more significant items in the second quarter. First, a $500 million release of loan loss reserves reflecting improved loan portfolio performance; second, commercial loan resolutions in the PCI portfolio increased $324 million from the first quarter. This is a reflection of our success in selling or resolving commercial PCI loans at realized values above the marks we took when we closed the Wachovia merger, and we believe there may be additional recovery potential in this portfolio going forward.

Operating losses in the quarter were $627 million, up $419 million from the first quarter primarily due to additional litigation accruals. Merger expenses in the quarter were $498 million, up from $380 million in the first quarter and we had $137 million of severance costs for the previously announced Wells Fargo financial restructuring. Now the pluses and minuses of these particular items for the quarter had a negligible impact on the bottom-line results.

Slide five indicates our various operating margins and financial returns which continue to be among the best in the industry with 4.38% net interest margin, 1% ROA, and a 14.6% return on tangible common. At our investor conference in May my business colleagues and I explained the importance of return on assets, a key operating metric. As shown on slide six, we continued to generate the highest ROA among our large peers in the second quarter as we have for many, many years.

Our higher ROA was driven by a couple of factors. First, the higher proportion of checking and savings accounts in our deposit mix. In the second quarter, low-cost checking and savings accounts combined rose to 88% of total deposits.

Second, our lower credit -- we have a lower credit loss rate in our loan portfolio, a reflection of our disciplined underwriting culture, proactive loan surveillance, and concentration in lower loss rate real estate secured loans. Our consolidated loss rate of 2.3% compares with an average of 3.9% for the other three large peers, although keep in mind this comparison is impacted by the respective PCI portfolios at each bank.

And, third, we have a higher proportion of total revenue coming from fee income which tends to be less asset intensive. Our revenue per dollar of assets was 7% in the second quarter compared with an average of less than 5% for the other three peers. Now this is largely a function of our success in cross-selling non-credit products in addition to the credit products we provide our customers.

Slide seven shows that all business segments contributed to earnings in the second quarter with particularly strong results coming from Community Banking which was up 21% and Wholesale Banking which was up 18% from the first quarter. Wealth, brokerage, and retirement services earned $270 million, down about 4% linked quarter.

Within our three reporting segments we operate more than 80 businesses. Across all of these businesses in total consolidated revenue was flat linked quarter and down about 4% year-over-year with declines in MSR hedging revenue offset by revenue growth in our other 80-plus businesses, particularly those businesses where revenue is driven by sales including double-digit linked quarter revenue growth on greater customer volume in commercial and corporate banking, commercial real estate brokerage, asset-based lending, international, auto dealer services, merchant services, and debit cards.

Starting on slide eight I will quickly go over the results by each of these business segments. Wholesale Banking accounted for about 45% of consolidated earnings in the quarter and that has had consistent revenue growth for many years including the last six quarters since the merger. Revenues reached $5.7 billion in the segment in the second quarter, up 8% from a year ago and up 25% linked quarter annualized.

The Wholesale business is very diverse with revenue growth in the second quarter coming from commercial, corporate, Eastdil Secured, our commercial real estate brokerage business, Wells Fargo Capital Finance, our asset base lending business, international, and loan resolutions more than offsetting lower trading revenue in the quarter. This business has been reducing non-strategic, high-risk loans and securities position since the merger cumulatively earning in excess of our initial write-downs during this period.

The business segment has been consistently growing deposits which are up 18% year-over-year and has recently seen signs of loan growth with loans to commercial customers, global financial institutions customers, and asset-based lending up in the second quarter.

Net income in this segment was up 32% from a year ago on higher revenue and lower charge-offs. Credit losses remain relatively low and declined 10% in the second quarter.

Slide nine, our community banking business, provides credit, mortgage, deposits, and payment services to more than 20 million retail bank households and over 2.5 million small businesses and business banking households with more banking stores to serve communities across the United States than any other bank. Earlier this month we announced that we will be integrating the separate store distribution channel for consumer finance into the regional banking channel to better provide product coverage for consumer finance customers and branch consolidation savings in the process. This resulted in a $137 million restructuring charge in the second quarter for severance.

Our community banking business earned $1.8 billion in the second quarter, up 21% from the first quarter. This business segment has been profitable throughout the credit crisis and earned nearly a 1% ROA in the second quarter despite elevated credit costs and the impact of merger integration expenses for Wachovia.

The results in this segment essentially reflect the sale machine that is inherent in our regional banking distribution. Legacy Wells Fargo core product solutions of $7.3 million are up 15% from a year ago and store-based small business solutions were up 31%. Cross-sell for legacy Wells Fargo reached a record 6.06 products per household of Wells Fargo products, up from 5.84% a year ago, and reached 4.88 Wachovia products per household, up from 4.55 a year ago.

Total consumer loans were down but certain portfolios increased linked quarter, including core auto loans which are up 4% and private student lending which was up 1%. Mortgage applications rose 14% in the quarter and the unclosed mortgage application pipeline was $68 billion at the end of the quarter, up 15% from the first quarter. New small business loan commitments rose 30% from the first quarter.

While there are too many imponderables on the reg reform bill, here is how we are thinking about Reg E and the Card Act. First, Reg E and other overdraft changes; we estimate a $225 million after-tax impact in the third quarter and about $275 million in the fourth quarter not including any offsets. Since Reg E changes would not begin until early July for new customers and will not begin for current customers until mid-August, the third quarter will have limited revenue benefit, potential offsets from customer opt-in. We expect revenue benefits and potential offsets to increase going forward.

Q4 will potentially benefit from an increasing opt-in rate. Because of potential offsets and changes in customer opt-in rate, it is likely that run rate costs will diminish over time from the numbers that I just quoted you from the third and the fourth quarter.

The impact from the Card Act will be relatively small, approximately $30 million after tax in the third quarter. Much smaller than our peers given our significantly smaller credit card portfolio.

Slide 10; one of the keys to the consistent sales growth in the regional banking group has been our ability to attract and retain consumer checking accounts across the country. Combined legacy Wells Fargo and Wachovia consumer checking accounts were up a net 7.4% from a year ago. California continued to be our fastest growing state in the West, up 9%, and we continue to see checking account growth accelerate in the East with New Jersey up 10% in the second quarter, doubled the growth rate from late last year.

The Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement business has had solid revenue results over the past six quarters even though the markets have been very volatile. Second-quarter revenue included strong asset-based fee growth and steady brokerage transaction revenue. Retail brokerage client assets were up 6% year-over-year while core deposits grew 7%. Institutional retirement plan assets rose 10% on the market improvement and new customer growth.

Net income in Wealth, Brokerage, and Retirement was up 5% from the second quarter of 2009 with growth in managed accounts fees driven by a 22% increase in managed accounts assets and 8% growth in investment management and trust revenue year-over-year.

Slide 12 covers lending at Wells Fargo and I would like to spend some time on this slide. On this slide we have split quarterly loans outstanding into the so-called liquidating or non-strategic portfolios and the all other portfolios which our portfolios where we plan to continue to originate loans.

The non-strategic portfolio is comprised of about $125 billion in loan portfolios where we exited or no longer write new business, including Pick-a-Pay, indirect home equity, legacy Wells Fargo Financial in direct auto, Wells Fargo financial debt consolidation, and commercial and CRE PCI loans. Please see the appendix for more details on the composition and the managed run-off of these loans.

Now apart from these non-strategic loans we had $620 billion in loans in the continuing portfolios. In the year prior to the second quarter all other loans declined $10 billion to $20 billion, roughly, per quarter but in the second quarter all other loans were down only $5 billion or less than 1%. About $3 billion of the $5 billion decline was due to mods and normal payoff activity in the non-Pick-a-Pay mortgage loan portfolio.

Importantly, for the first time in the second quarter we began to see some life in certain lending businesses including linked quarter growth in wholesale commercial, wholesale asset-based lending, global financial institutions, wealth, brokerage, and retirement, auto dealer services, and private student lending. We believe we are gaining share in those lending markets we continue to serve.

As we have throughout the credit crisis, we continued to supply credit to the US economy in the second quarter. In the second quarter alone we originated or committed to $150 billion of credit, up 17% from the first quarter. You can see the breakdown of that on slide 13. The growth in commercial and commercial real estate originations and commitments was the largest quarterly increase since the merger.

Shifting to the other side of the balance sheet on slide 14, we continue to grow checking and savings deposits which were up $59 billion or 10% from a year ago. Checking and savings deposits account for 88% of core deposits and at quarter end our core deposits funded almost 100% of consolidated loans. The size, growth, and high concentration of checking accounts in our deposit base represent important differentiators for Wells Fargo and important sources of cross-sell and revenue growth.

We have significantly reduced higher cost CDs with $114 billion of Wachovia's higher rate CDs maturing since the merger. Approximately 57% of maturing Wachovia CDs were retained in lower rate CDs or checking and savings deposits. Now most of Wachovia's higher rate CDs have matured with only $4 billion scheduled to mature in the second half of 2010.

Slide 15; an important part of our revenue growth is the incremental revenue Wells Fargo is earning from the merger with Wachovia. There are many, many examples of this merger-enabled growth, if you will, a few of which are listed on slide 15. Let me just mention a couple of these.

First, Wachovia cross-sell, as I mentioned before, has now increased 7% from 4.55 just after the merger to 4.88 in the second quarter of 2010. So we are clearly getting good cross-sell growth in the East. Within Wholesale Banking the products and expertise that we gained from Wachovia is driving increases within investment banking. The amount of investment banking revenue coming from our own commercial banking customers is up 45% since the merger, in part as more and more of legacy Wells Fargo commercial and corporate customers are using Wells Fargo securities to underwrite their bond and equity financings.

Within government and institutional banking cross-sell revenue is up 43% in the first half of 2010. In the wealth and retirement and brokerage business client assets, deposits, managed accounts are all up significantly since the merger, and in our retail brokerage group we are significantly cross-selling loans, which is one of the reasons our loan growth occurred in the second quarter.

We now shift to slide 16 in terms of our non-interest expenses. We continue to invest in our businesses in the second quarter in ways that better serve our customers, opening 13 new banking stores in the quarter, converting over 1,400 ATMs to envelope-free web-enabled ATMs, and increasing regional banking platform banker FTEs in the East, up 500 from year-end 2009.

Most of the increase in non-interest expense from the first quarter was due to three items -- $419 million in additional operating losses, as I mentioned earlier, primarily due to additional litigation accruals; the $137 million in severance costs related to the Wells Fargo Financial restructuring; and $118 million in higher merger integration costs compared with the first quarter.

As John mentioned earlier, we continue to make great progress on integrating Wachovia and we will start to convert our stores in the East later this quarter after completing the overlapping markets this coming weekend. In the first half of this year we spent about $900 million on the Wachovia merger integration and we expect to spend approximately $1.2 billion in the second half of the year. We now expect to spend approximately $1.4 billion for the integration in 2011 bringing the total Wachovia merger integration costs to approximately $5.7 billion.

Now this is an increase from our most recent estimate of approximately $5 billion and was driven by several factors including, first, increased scope and complexity associated with certain merger projects, such as the development of our international products and systems; second, additional enhancements and upgrades, especially in our treasury management products; and additional testing than was originally contemplated, including building substantial test environments for our complex systems.

Now on the savings side we have already achieved about 80% of the expected $5 billion in annual run rate savings.

As I mentioned on our investor day, as part of our One Wells Fargo effort to bring the entire organization efficiently to each of our customers we intend to simplify and streamline our company to make it easier for our customers to do business with us and therefore earn more of their business going forward. Our objective is to improve customer service, reduce turnaround times, and improve time to market, but the expense savings associated with simplifying and streamlining our company could be very significant. The announcement we made earlier this month to close 638 Wells Fargo Financial stores is but one example of the type of savings that would fall into this simplification and streamlining category.

Let me now shift to credit on slide 17. As I indicated earlier, credit quality improved significantly in the second quarter. Net charge-offs declined earlier and more significantly than originally projected and were down 16% linked quarter and down $924 million from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2009. However, earlier credit quality indicators continue to improve with non-accrual inflows down 18%, commercial criticized loans down 14% year to date, and early-stage delinquencies improving almost across the board.

Our PCI portfolio continued to perform better than expected resulting in the release of $1.9 billion from the non-accretable difference for the Pick-a-Pay portfolio which will add to future income over the life of the loans. At quarter end we had $25 billion of allowance for credit losses, about 3.27% of total loans, and additionally we had $16.2 billion in remaining non-accretable difference, about 26% of the PCI loan unpaid principal balance.

Because of improved portfolio performance we released $500 million of reserves in the second quarter with the potential for additional releases absent significant deterioration in the economy.

A couple of highlights about the credit quality in the quarter starting on slide 18. The 16% decline in charge-offs from the first quarter was pretty much across the board, commercial real estate losses down about 10%, consumer losses in total down 21% including a 23% decline in first mortgage charge-offs, 18% decline in junior lien mortgage charge-offs. Credit card charge-offs were down 10% and revolving credit card loan charge-offs were down 34%.

Slide 19 shows trends in consumer delinquencies. Early indicators continue to improve with 30 days past due improving in many consumer portfolios including credit cards, student lending, home equity, and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage.

On slide 20 shows you the Pick-a-Pay portfolio where credit trends continue to improve in both the non-impaired and impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolios with performance better than originally expected at the time of the merger. The roll rate of loans from current status to 30-plus days past due stabilized or improved in both the PCI and non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolios, and the percentage of first-time delinquent loans in the non-impaired portfolio is down for the fifth consecutive quarter. And in the PCI portfolio first time delinquencies were at levels not seen since prior to the merger.

We also had improvements in net charge-offs in the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio, which were down $148 million or 35% from the first quarter.

As shown on slide 21, non-accrual inflows in the second quarter were down 18% with consumer inflows down 23% and commercial down 7%. In addition, outflows increased 12% from the first quarter. Now this combination of this dramatic slowdown in inflows and higher outflows resulted in a significant deceleration of non-accrual loan growth, which was up only 2% in the second quarter.

Now one of the reasons the level of outflows is not yet higher is that it is taking somewhat longer to resolve residential real estate loans, in part because of federal and state regulations that have had the effect of elongating the modification and foreclosure process. Again, loans are written down when necessary and we get realizable value when we sell but they are currently remain in non-accrual for slightly longer periods of time.

On slide 22 we consider the combination of $25 billion in the allowance and $16 billion remaining non-accretable difference to be robust, especially now that charge-offs are declining. As I mentioned earlier, during the second quarter we released $500 million of loan loss reserves reflecting improved performance of the loan portfolios, both consumer and commercial.

The purchased credit impaired portfolios have performed better than originally expected; slide 23 provides a lot of details on this. We already saw improved performance in the Pick-a-Pay portfolio in the first quarter when we released $549 million of non-accretable difference. In the second quarter, with sustained positive performance in this portfolio, we released an additional $1.8 billion reclassified to accretable yield.

Now the improvement in life of loan loss estimates is primarily attributable to our significant modification efforts as well as the stabilization in the portfolio's delinquencies over the last several months. I should mention that this $1.8 billion reclass of the non-accretable to accretable did not affect income in the second quarter but will be realized over the remaining life of the portfolio, approximately a year.

Now with the remaining non-accretable difference of $16 billion there may be additional potential for further releases from non-accretable to accretable if this portfolio continues to perform better than original expectations.

In the commercial PCI portfolio we did, as I mentioned earlier, have a release of non-accretable difference from resolutions of loans either through payment, from customers, or sales to third parties. Since the merger we have written off $6.1 billion against the original PCI unpaid principal balance of $29.2 billion and the remaining commercial non-accretable difference represents about 15% of the remaining commercial PCI portfolio.

I will conclude with a couple of remarks about our balance sheet. On slide 24 the strength of our business model continued to produce high rates of internal capital generation as reflected in our significantly improved capital ratios. During the quarter we added $4 billion to tangible common equity through retained earnings and other internally generated sources of capital producing an annualized increase in tangible common of 20%.

Our Tier 1 common ratio increased 44 basis points to 7.53%. In the second quarter we purchased 64% of the TARP warrants auctioned by the US Treasury which reduced our Tier 1 common by about five basis points, but which we expect to be accretive to earnings. We expect to opportunistically repurchase more warrants in the open market from time to time at economic prices.

We have about $19 billion of outstanding trust preferred securities and $7 billion of those will convert automatically to qualifying Tier 1 capital under their original terms. So under the new Financial Reform Act only about $12 billion is expected to be disqualified over the three-year period beginning in 2013. The elimination has no impact on Tier 1 common and, given internally generated growth that is likely in capital over this time period, we would expect the elimination of these trust preferreds to have only a small impact on our Tier 1 capital.

Slide 25; in terms of our balance sheet we believe our balance sheet is stronger than ever. Our capital ratios are now substantially higher than they were before we doubled the size of the Company with the Wachovia acquisition and our capital ratios have been growing rapidly through internal capital generation. Tier 1 common, for example, is up a full 100 basis point year to date.

Our loan loss reserves and remaining on non-accretable difference with the PCI portfolio are strong at a time when losses are coming down. The loan portfolio is now funded with core deposits and we have significant capacity to add mortgage-backed securities to build revenues and earnings even more at higher long-term yields. In effect, our current income is running less than it could be as we keep our investment powder dry.

With that I would like to now open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer & Co.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Good morning. I was wondering if you could talk a little bit about the geographic differences in the loan portfolios. And are you noticing any growth in any of the markets that are less stressed in housing than the other markets?

And how much of a -- in your judgment, how much of an impact is that or has consumer behavior sort of been broadly changed in all geographies, in all different kinds of markets?

JOHN STUMPF: Want to take a shot at that, Chris. On the mortgage side most of what we did in the second quarter on the first mortgage was refinances and there is not a geographic bias to that per se.

But what we are seeing is, as we have mentioned and Howard talked about, it's more portfolio unique than geographic specific. So we are -- the growth we are seeing is, for example, in autos; we are seeing it there. We are seeing -- in some of our small business we are seeing some more activity there; student lending and so forth. But I wouldn't -- there is not a geographic bias that would stand out.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And switching to asset quality, any view on when you would expect total non-performers to peak?

JOHN STUMPF: We have -- I think we have said in the past that it's -- we are getting close and it would not surprise me that -- I mean if you look at the deceleration of our growth you can make your own assumptions about that.

But you know, the issue there is the inflows have significantly reduced. The key is for us to get the outflows going faster and that is somewhat impeded by regulatory and other issues related to, especially on the residential side, state issues.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then finally, how much do you expect the integration costs to carry on into 2011? Is there --?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, we have said that -- we first started out saying that we thought the costs were somewhere in the $8 billion range. We took that down to $5 billion. We think it's going to be something more than that now; Howard shared those numbers. And we expect that to be -- those costs to be used up or completed at the time of the merger completion which is at the end of 2011.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Couple of questions; one on the NIM. Howard, you mentioned the ins and outs there and I was intrigued by your comment that you indicated a significant capacity to add RMBS. Could you just talk through how you are thinking about shifts in the composition of earning assets and the potential impact on NIM if rates were to stay flat with where they are today?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, the key thing on NIM, as we have said for a long time, is deposits so the more we keep growing deposits that is going to be beneficial to the NIM. The earning asset competition in part is going to be a reflection of whether loan demand comes back more vigorously, which we would all like to see. We began to see signs of that in the second quarter in both commercial and to a lesser extent in the consumer, so we hope that continues.

The mortgage -- the MBS portfolio is going to be a function of whether yields are appropriate to add to the portfolio.

HOWARD ATKINS: But, Betsy, I would say it this way; we don't run the Company around the NIM. The NIM is what it is. If we like MBS yields, and at some point in time we will, and we have huge capacity to add those, it might be negative to the NIM but be positive to net income. And that would be the right thing to do. So if -- the NIM is not the goal here.

BETSY GRASECK: Right. And so -- but are you at the stage where you would be interested in shifting some of your liquidity into RMBS at this stage?

JOHN STUMPF: It depends on deposit growth, Betsy. The purpose of the MBS portfolio is really to match off against our long-duration liabilities. The more deposits grow we get a little longer on the right-hand side of the balance sheet.

We could get to a point where just to manage the risk of that we want to add to the MBS portfolio. But absent that, we are very focused on long-term yields and that is what we will stay focused on.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then on the accretable yield and the release of the accretable yield, could you just talk through what you would need to see to have more of that occur? Obviously a little bit was released this quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I think, Betsy, in that case it's all about performance so we look at the cash flows and we look at how those portfolios are performing. And I think we shared a lot of detail at the investor conference. I think there was a lot of confidence in how we are managing that and we will continue to make that analysis.

And you know how that works. If we take the benefits over the remaining life and if we miss on the other side we have to put reserves up right away, so we want to be absolutely sure as we go through this process that we are sure on the performance of those portfolios. But the biggest amount left relates to the Pick-a-Pay and we probably have the most confidence there about how that portfolio is performing.

HOWARD ATKINS: And the driver there of course, Betsy, is the success we have had in modifying these loans, which is really the factor that is -- the horse that is driving the cash flow. So with the passage of time and the success in modifying loans in that portfolio that tends to increase our confidence around releasing more non-accretable.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then could you just speak to your outlook for house prices? There has been some question in the marketplace as to whether or not they will stay where they are right now given the reduction in stimulus to the housing market. So I think that would have an impact on how much you release there.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, so if you think about the Pick-a-Pay that happens to be -- about two-thirds of that portfolio happens to be -- of the impaired portfolio happens to be in California. Most of those loans were your first time home buyer or second-time home buyer homes and this state, California, and that price has seen more recovery than most places. So we have been -- that has been a benefit to us.

You talked housing I think -- and we are seeing other states where housing also is -- and the low end has improved, bounced off the bottom. As I mentioned a number of times, when we do take back properties and sell them we are getting multiple bids and most of them are cash bids. So there is -- and while the first-time home buyer credit was important it's not the only thing that is driving this. These are record low interest rates these days, employment is pretty steady, and home price affordability has never been better.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Good morning. Just a clarification on the NIM. Howard, if we look at the increase in the NIM quarter to quarter, understanding that you are not managing that, was the purchase accounting accretion a driver, a big driver?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, that is correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. That is the $506 million?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, that was the level. The change from first quarter to second quarter was about $300 million so you can do the math in terms of how much basis point impact that incurred.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, great. Then on the MSR hedge could you just kind of update us where you stand, not in numbers but just conceptually. Are you fully hedged still or are you biased towards becoming less hedged?

HOWARD ATKINS: As you would expect, when interest rates are declining and/or low we tend to be more fully hedged in that -- against the MSR asset. And when rates go the other way we tend to be a little less fully hedged, which is one of the reasons why we feel that we are keeping our powder dry in the investment portfolio because we are relatively fully hedged on the MSR.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And are you still getting what you have called in the past carrying income on the hedge this quarter as well as kind of the change in the value of the hedge?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, we are still getting -- the mark on the hedge is a reflection of both the change in price as well as the carry. There is still carry income coming through.

The total hedge result was down about $300 million from first to second quarter largely as a result of a flattening of the curve. Loan rates came down almost a full point in the quarter and that was the main driver there.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Question on reserve release; Wells Fargo has historically not released reserves even when others have. Could you give us a little color on in your models what drove the release this quarter and what is driving your commentary that you could have continued reserve release in coming quarters? What is different than in the past?

HOWARD ATKINS: It's very simply charge-offs dropped substantially and the loss continent, as we see it in these portfolios, has dropped. And as a result you have too release reserves to a certain extent when the loss content in the portfolio declines as it did.

JOHN MCDONALD: So it's just a revision of your 12 month or 24 month outlook on losses?

HOWARD ATKINS: We look at losses over what we call a loss emergence period and that is what defines the loss content in these portfolios. And the loss content, as defined, has dropped pretty significantly which you see in the first quarter of that loss emergence period manifested in the second-quarter results.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And I guess declining balances is also a factor there as well?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, but not as much, John. That has -- it's more of what Howard just said. We take a look at this emerge period and -- but this should be expected. When we were going through this last year and the other side of the curve we knew this would be the case and this is --.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. The last question and maybe this is for John or Howard. Just regarding the exit of the Wells Fargo Financial business, John, you are in this business for over 100 years; you have long thought it to be a profitable, valuable business. In the press release it cited your increase in bank branches and density as a driver of the decision to exit.

Is there other things that caused your change in the view of the profitability and attractiveness of that business, besides just your number of branches?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, a couple of things; we announced all at the same time. We want to be relevant and be able to provide products and services where our customers live and work. When you add another 3,500 or 3,300 stores in the East we had the distribution.

Secondly, some of the product or one product, the debt consolidation product that we were doing, we really weren't doing much of it. So -- and if you look at the rest of the things we were doing, we were doing those in other channels. We could do it more efficiently, provide a more consistent experience for the customers so it was a very obvious thing to do.

So we think about 100 years of experience; we will still have that experience in a lot of our other distribution channels. We can do it, again, more efficiently and more effectively for customers.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. Thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Mike Mayo, CLSA.

MIKE MAYO, ANALYST, CLSA: Good morning. One simple question and one hard question. The simple question is what is your commercial loan utilization in the second quarter and how does that compare to the first quarter or last year?

HOWARD ATKINS: What is your simple question? I don't have the number here in front of me, Mike, but our -- my --

JOHN STUMPF: It's relatively unchanged.

HOWARD ATKINS: Relatively unchanged with perhaps a tad better given both the increase in commitments as well as some early signs of demand on the commercial side in the second quarter.

JOHN STUMPF: Still historic lows.

MIKE MAYO: All right. And then the hard question is how much of the $506 million of the accretable yield would you consider sustainable? And I have a couple other questions related to that, but that is the gist of my questions. So I guess what was -- the accretable yield this quarter was $506 million and what was --.

HOWARD ATKINS: The release from non-accretable to accretable on the commercial side was $506 million.

MIKE MAYO: Right. So the accretable yield, which is an income statement item, was $506 million positive?

HOWARD ATKINS: Correct. Well, $506 million for the quarter, up $300-some-odd million from the prior quarter. We have been getting releases through accretable in this portfolio for a couple of quarters now.

MIKE MAYO: And so the first quarter it was $200 million and change and before that it was around the same level?

HOWARD ATKINS: It was a little bit lower in the prior quarters but, yes.

MIKE MAYO: And so should we expect a $500 million run rate going forward or how do you think about that?

HOWARD ATKINS: No. Again, this is -- the total amount of non-accretable against this portfolio is $2.9 billion, as I mentioned, which is about 15% of the remaining unpaid principal balance. So we are hopeful that we will get additional recoveries from that $2.9 billion, particularly given our success and given where the markets are now.

Markets are liquid; these borrowers are able to refinance and finance out of these positions. We mark these positions, as you know, down very heavily at the close. But while we expect additional recoveries in this portfolio, it's an exhaustible resource; it does end at some point.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Mike, think of it this way. There is also offsets to that. We are taking higher losses in that portfolio right now and there is more costs of managing that portfolio.

So it's not like -- it is an exhaustible resource but I wouldn't think of it in terms of this is good news and that good news ends sometime. There is also some bad news that also will end as we work through this portfolio.

MIKE MAYO: I understand it's a testament to your conservatism at the time you closed the merger because you wrote down these loans.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, it's also more than that. As John says, there is costs and risks still -- we would like to see this go away because there is costs and risks associated with this portfolio.

JOHN STUMPF: But I would also say we were conservative at the time but I got to tell you, and you know some of our people, Mike, we have just terrific people working on these portfolios. If you know the time that Dave Hoyt and his team spend on these sorts of things the same way we are spending time on the Pick-a-Pay, it's all hands on deck.

MIKE MAYO: And if you are recognizing this difference over eight years, why was so much of the difference recognized in the second quarter? In other words the uptick of $300 million.

HOWARD ATKINS: The commercial -- the release on the commercial portfolio is immediately recognized. On the consumer side, because we are talking about a portfolio, that is where you get the release over time. So commercial is loan by loan.

JOHN STUMPF: Loan specific on the commercial side.

MIKE MAYO: But the $1.8 billion transfer was specifically for Pick-a-Pay?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, the $1.8 billion is Pick-a-Pay. That had no impact on second-quarter income but will accrete into income over roughly an eight-year period, whereas on the commercial side the recovery, if you will, was immediately in income.

MIKE MAYO: So that was really the big driver for the quarter then. And what part made you more optimistic about the commercial impaired loans?

JOHN STUMPF: (multiple speakers) That is actual [recovery of] loans. You actually saw the loan; you do a deal.

HOWARD ATKINS: Customers were actually cash in hand. The customer refinanced or we sold the loan or it was resolved in some way.

JOHN STUMPF: There is no guesswork there, Mike. It's done.

MIKE MAYO: All right. And so just a last follow-up, so if someone asks me how much of the $506 million of the accretable yield is permanent, what would your answer be?

JOHN STUMPF: I would ask the question why do you say permanent. What is the -- I mean, it happens.

HOWARD ATKINS: It's done. It's income that was booked in the second quarter, Mike.

MIKE MAYO: Okay. So next quarter and the quarter after you will just see?

HOWARD ATKINS: Next quarter we will have either -- hopefully we will have more recoveries over time and hopefully on the other side the cost of working off this portfolio will decline and the risk will go away.

MIKE MAYO: All right. Well, thanks a lot.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. I promise I will not ask a question about accretable yield. I am still trying to get my head kind of wrapped around this Wells Fargo financial move, and I understand the economics of having a larger branch system, etc., etc. But is your Wells Fargo Financial client going to come into a branch to do business?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes.

NANCY BUSH: And when he is in the branch, he or she, do you think that you can get them to do quote more banking type transactions? I'm just having trouble sort of migrating one business to another.

JOHN STUMPF: Nancy, that is already happening. In fact, if you would look at the Wells Fargo traditional store network, you call branch, store network, not all those customers are prime customers to begin with. In fact, we have been serving them for a number of years. This way we can serve them even better, more consistently and we are taking a lot of the front-room folks, the sales folks from our Wells Fargo Financial system that has now been eliminated and putting them in our stores.

And yes, we are trying to sell them other things, help them succeed financially. So it's -- and we actually did some in the last year or so some tests on this and it works very, very well. So that gave us the confidence that we could do that in our banking stores.

NANCY BUSH: I guess this is more a question for Howard related to the same topic. How do we look at the migration of revenues and expenses? Will this take margins down, particularly as the subprime mortgage business runs off or goes away? How do we think about the P&L changes that this move is going to?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, we are not talking about a big component of the balance sheet, but in concept, Nancy, these are slightly higher-margin assets that will go away, but by the same token, they are also higher loss content portfolios. So losses will be on the margin a little lower and --

JOHN STUMPF: Nancy, I would answer it this way. Everything that was being done in the financial stores except for the debt consolidation portfolio loans will be done someplace else and they are being done right now. And, frankly, in the last year or two we were doing almost zero debt consolidation loans for our portfolio anyhow.

So we are just not losing that much and the gain is, we think, significant in that you bring financial bankers who are really good at loans in to our stores. They help our store people become better at loans, the store people help them become better at opening up checking accounts and so forth like that. So I see this as win; better for customers, better for team members, better for shareholders and I don't see the downside here.

NANCY BUSH: So when will this migration be completed, John? When is this completely done and we start seeing the impact?

JOHN STUMPF: It's going to be -- think of it as -- well, the stores are being shut down as we speak. So this is -- and [Gary Tulset] has worked with Dave Kvamme and [Kevin Ryan] on that team about people migration and so forth. So think of it as third quarter.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And, Howard, one quick question on operating losses. I know this is a lumpy number; how do we think about that number going forward? Is there some baseline that we should be thinking about?

I am assuming that $400 million or so increase in the quarter is abnormal. Was there anything particularly driving it in the second quarter and when does this number start to tail off?

HOWARD ATKINS: Again, it is higher than that not only the first quarter but higher than the average for the prior five quarters so you can sort of make your own judgment about what an average quarter would look like. In this particular quarter we just had a confluence of litigation matters that we accrued for all in the same quarter.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, great. Thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Thanks, Nancy.

OPERATOR: Fred Cannon, KBW.

FRED CANNON, ANALYST, KBW: Thanks. John, in your -- at the investor day you had stated that preemption was your biggest concern about reg reform. In your introductory comments today it appears that there is a number of other issues that have you concerned about how reg reform plays itself out, as the rules get written. I was wondering if you could add a little color on that.

JOHN STUMPF: Sure. There are parts of reg reform that they really got right and I want to compliment those who are involved in that. Things like the systemic risk regulator, a way to unwind large systemically important firms. We have always had that on the banking side, commercial banks, but didn't have it in financial services. And consumer protection; we will have to see how the bureau works but the concept around consumers should be able to buy products from providers who have proper regulation. We think that, and a level playing field, that is all good.

On the part that -- there is a big omission here in the reform bill and there is nothing in there, not one word about the GSEs, Fannie and Freddie. You could ask any American and they would say housing was not the epicenter of what happened it was very close to it, and who are the two biggest players there, Fannie and Freddie.

So now with respect to preemption, they got it mostly right. I think it could have been even better for Americans but they got it pretty close there. And that is why I am hopeful that as we see it work in reality that we will be able to continue to provide products and services across the country. Consumers can live and work and borrow and use ATM machines and understand that there is consistent laws across the land.

Of course, I don't see how debit card fees between banks and merchants had anything to do with what happened in the last couple of years as a downturn. So we are still working through the impacts of that.

So there are -- so think of it this way, Fred, there are things that we agree with and we think will make the industry and the country stronger. There are things that weren't tackled that will need to be tackled in some way, shape, or form. And there is things that I don't understand how it impacted the downturn and, frankly, I don't agree with parts of it.

FRED CANNON: I couldn't agree with you more on the GSEs. Just as a follow up, John, the consumer financial product bureau that is being set up, how much -- how concerned are you about that and about who gets nominated to run that new agency?

JOHN STUMPF: Again, it's so early. We have always been, here at this company, strongly aligned with the interests of our consumers. People have asked me, I have been asked this question a thousand times, what did you see in real estate that others did not that caused you not to make negative option arms.

And we said we didn't see the downturn coming, we just knew it wasn't good for consumers and that is what -- we have always been guided by that. So how the bureau works, who is named, that is all stuff for another day. We will just continue to do what is right here and I am sure that we will be able to adopt our and work with whatever the outcome is.

FRED CANNON: All right, thanks. One final one. Your loan mods; I believe in the press release up to date you have the about 76,000 HAMP and about 430,000 of your own. Do you see more loan mods, those numbers continuing to climb, and do you see the HAMP ones beginning to accelerate? Kind of where are we on that whole thing?

JOHN STUMPF: We are doing about three mods for every one foreclosure. And I have got to tell you, while we continue to get better and we need to get better, I am very proud of the work that over 16,000 or 17,000 of our people do every day to help Americans stay in their homes. We do about 2,000 mods per day.

There continues to be changes and some that the industry has suggested to help make HAMP more friendly, more usable but I have got to tell you we are also doing a lot of things that we think are best practice kinds of things. We are now doing our 10th or 11th weekend event in large cities across America where we have home preservation workshops where we bring our people in. They are all hooked up to online so people can sit down and have a modification done right at the event.

We are doing many other outreach kinds of activities. So I don't know that one will grow more than the other, but we have all of our people that are involved in this very committed to help Americans stay in homes.

FRED CANNON: All right. Thanks so much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Paul Miller, FBR.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FBR: Thank you very much. Talk a little bit about your MSR portfolio. You have it definitely lower than anybody else in the industry at 76 basis points. I know a lot of that was driven by that 10-year going from 4% to 3% but you are not releasing a big uptick in refis or whatnot as a lot of people talk about a refi burnout.

Can you add some color about how you might be able to capture some of that value there? Because you definitely don't need to hedge it down at this level given where rates are.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, you always have to worry about whether rates go up, down, or sideways so we can't not -- we can't ignore our hedging in the portfolio. But, yes, at 73 basis points if rates go back up or we decide to hedge differently, there could be very significant up-value in that activity.

JOHN STUMPF: But, Paul, you do raise, I think -- I don't know if this was part of your question, but there might be a point in time we have a view that rates can't go much lower and they are going to go up. We might have a bias.

We might take a company view that rates will go up and in those times we might decide to not as fully hedge based on that view. But we sat here just a quarter ago and rates were 100 basis points higher. People said at the time it couldn't go any lower and it went 100 basis points lower.

So the goal there on the MSRs is not to -- it's really a risk management activity and it's not -- so that is the reason for the hedge. We might have a bias one way or the other but it's predominantly about risk management.

PAUL MILLER: Well, I guess I am more -- it's definitely about risk management but it's also just the confusion of the accounting. A lot of people have to use that 10-year as a basis but you are just not seeing the refis so is the -- and so is really the accounting value matching the economic value?

In my mind there is a huge difference between the two at this point. I don't know if you want to address that at all on the call, but it just seems to me that there is a lot more economic value than (inaudible) [value is allowing you to discount].

JOHN STUMPF: Actually refinance volumes have jumped quite a bit recently. There is a fair amount of activity there.

On the other hand, you are right that not everyone can refinance because of the loan-to-value requirements, but if you are interested in a longer conversation to this we will shortly arrange for that.

But I think it's pretty obvious we have a set of 9 million or so customers who we make 25 basis points on the servicing, which is -- we discount that back. We put an asset on our balance sheet. We think that asset is conservatively valued, like you said 70 some basis points; lowest in the industry. In fact, I think it's the lowest we have ever had it because rates are so low.

HOWARD ATKINS: We still have a few more questions from the line. We will try to take one from a few more people.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Regarding capital can you update us as to what your current expectations are for what new requirements you may be held to as well as when you think we may hear something specific on that? And then given the strong internal generation rates, when might we see Wells start to deploy some of its capital through dividend increases or share buybacks, and where would your preference be between those two?

JOHN STUMPF: Joe, all I can tell you is what I read because I don't know a lot more than that. The Basel III accord, there is lots of discussion going on about that. I would expect that it's in the interest of the banks in the US, our economy, and the world that there be a resolution on that sooner than later.

I don't know where those numbers are going to go, but there has to be some call about how much capital is enough. Hopefully, whoever makes the call relates it to the risk inherent in the companies -- one size does not fit all here.

I can tell you in our Company's case our Tier 1 is now higher than it has ever been in my 30 years with the Company or 29 years with the Company. Our Tier 1 common now is as high as it has ever been. We are generating it at very rapid speed, pace.

And, frankly, it's time we start rewarding our owners, our stockholders with a more representative dividend given the performance of this company. And that is job one around here. We want to get that done.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Matt O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, guys. If I could just circle back to the expense reduction conversation that you were having earlier, obviously there is the opportunity of cutting costs in financial. It seems like if you are already at 80% of the Wachovia targeted cost saves and there is still a ton of integration to be done, it seems like there might be some upside there.

So I guess I was just hoping that you could try and size up how big all of the cost savings might be and the timing of when you might start realizing some of them?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, as we mentioned, Matt, we have got a lot of things in various stages of thought and development on expenses. We are still committed to realizing the $5 billion of annual savings from the consolidation. We talked about the Wells Fargo Financial; we have put some estimates into the public on the potential positive impact of that and timing of that going forward.

And as I said, we have got a variety of other things that are going on that are just in very early stages of development I would say. So we will -- as we know more and could put some specificity around that we will disclose more of that.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. When do you think you will be doing that?

HOWARD ATKINS: Throughout the next four or five quarters probably.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Ed Najarian, ISI Group.

ED NAJARIAN, ANALYST, ISI GROUP: Hi, Howard. Just a quick question to clarify this accretable thing. Could you just give us the actual total accretable difference in the first quarter and then what it was in the second quarter so we can not only see that $300 million step up but what the actual numbers were? I know that $506 million is just related to the commercial PCI portfolio; I was interested in the totals.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, we have got -- as I said, it was about $1.8 billion on the Pick-a-Pay side and the $500-and-some-odd million on the commercial side.

ED NAJARIAN: I am talking about the amount that flowed through net interest income, excuse me.

HOWARD ATKINS: The only thing that went through net interest income was the $506 million compared with roughly $180 [million] in the first quarter.

ED NAJARIAN: So there was no consumer related that flowed through in the second quarter?

HOWARD ATKINS: No, because again the consumer is just in the yield and the bulk of the increase was the $1.8 billion in the second quarter. And that had no impact on second quarter.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay. And then secondarily, on the US Bancorp call they indicated that the change in -- their estimate for the change in FDIC insurance costs for 2011 would be about $200 million annually. You guys have a little over four times their deposits, is that something around $800 million a number that you would think would be about right for you guys?

HOWARD ATKINS: I don't know where they get that number so I can't comment.

ED NAJARIAN: And you don't have any estimate for that number?

HOWARD ATKINS: No.

ED NAJARIAN: Okay, thanks.

HOWARD ATKINS: We will take one more question.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Howard, just first a clarification. I think the previous questioner was asking also about the accretion, which was like up roughly $40 million from like $640-some-odd million last quarter to $680-some-odd million this quarter. I think that is what the reference was.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, well that is $40 million -- I think the big item is the difference between the 180 and the 506.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. Just to get back on the expense side, it just seems like there is -- maybe I am understanding this wrong, but if you have said that you have already got 80% of the reductions in there out of $5 billion it means that there is $1 billion of incremental savings. Yet you have still got $2.6 billion of spending to go.

Could you kind of reconcile what that spending is going to get you if you have got 80% of the savings in the [revenue]?

HOWARD ATKINS: What it's going to get you is signage and systems conversions and principally the non-overlapping stores on the East Coast. So we have gotten -- the sort of staff consolidation expenses are now behind us, those are the savings, and the bulk of the remaining expenditure gets consolidation in, as I say, the non-overlapping states.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Is there kind of an incremental revenue benefit? Because I gets otherwise it seems like it's a little disproportionate.

HOWARD ATKINS: You get the benefit from having everybody on the same system and all the revenue benefits of cross-selling comes with that going forward.

JOHN STUMPF: But the two are really not as connected as you might think. So you have your integration and it cost money to change systems, to change signs, and all those other things, and then you have your savings. So I wouldn't -- you can't -- it wouldn't be the right analysis to say you are through 80% of your conversion, you should have 80% of your savings. Those two are really not as connected as you might think they are.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Right. I don't want to harp on it but it seemed to me that it usually went the other way. That a lot of these spending comes up front and the savings are realized afterwards so this for some reason seems to be reversed.

JOHN STUMPF: Well, when you have -- in our case where you have two companies and you only need the one CEO, you need one head of retail, one head of operations, those kind of things, you make some of those changes pretty quick. You want advertising budget and it's a --.

HOWARD ATKINS: If you have a systems conversion that is necessary to consolidate two branches then, yes, you can have -- you spend the money first, you consolidate the systems, and then the savings come when you actually mush the branches together. But, as I say, in this case we are converting the nation's systems of systems and the bulk of the work effort there is connected with the non-overlapping states.

So you have to do the work and the benefit, as I said, will be all the revenue synergies and all the other goodies that come along with having everybody on the same system.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great. Thanks.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. I want to thank all of you for joining us. We very much appreciate your time and we will see you next quarter.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Wells Fargo second-quarter earnings call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i81402 : Commercial Banking | i8150107 : Debit Cards | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | iplastic : Plastic Cards
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | c151 : Earnings | gvedn : Education Department | gcon : Consumer Affairs | e1102 : Money Supply | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c13 : Regulation/Government Policy | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | glife : Living/Lifestyle | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | gvbod : Government Bodies | gvexe : Executive Branch | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100804e67l0012y
  


 HD
 Q1  2010 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,396 words
   PD
21 April 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning. My name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). I would now like to turn today's call over to Mr. Bob Strickland. Please go ahead, sir.

BOB STRICKLAND, SVP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO CORP.: Good morning. Thank you for joining our call today during which our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf and CFO, Howard Atkins, will review first-quarter 2010 results and answer your questions.

   TD
Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our first-quarter earnings release and quarterly supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and quarterly supplement included as exhibits.

In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and quarterly supplement available on our website at WellsFargo.com. I will now turn the call over to our Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN & CEO, WELLS FARGO CORP.: Thanks, Bob and thanks to everyone who has joined us on this call. We appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo. Before I turn this over to Howard Atkins for a more in-depth review of our results this quarter, let me review some highlights from the quarter and why I am excited about how Wells Fargo is positioned for the future.

Our first-quarter results reflect underlying strength with revenue growth that demonstrates the power of our diversified business model and combined franchise. In fact, during the challenging economic environment of the past couple of years, which continues to affect employment, housing values, loan demand and interest rates, we have been afforded a great opportunity to clearly demonstrate how well our business model works for our customers and for shareholders, no matter what the economic conditions are.

This wasn't by chance, but reflects the benefit of our long-standing focus on diversification. Our team has continued to meet our customers' financial needs while pulling together to make our merger with Wachovia the largest in US banking history a success.

Over the past year, we have completed a tremendous amount of work behind the scenes, choosing and enhancing systems and products, aligning jobs and completing detailed integration plans, so we are now well-prepared for the more visible work you will see happening this year and next.

To date, we have converted a number of business lines, including mortgage and credit card, and four of our overlapping banking states and we are preparing to complete the California conversion this weekend. Texas, our last overlapping state, will be converted in July. Our eastern states will begin converting in the third quarter and we are on schedule to complete all conversions by the end of 2011 as we had planned.

This merger has been a team effort and our entire team is working exceptionally well together. Culturally and financially, this merger is exceeding my expectations and I couldn't be more excited about the opportunities ahead.

At this point, we believe we have turned the corner on many of the credit challenges of the past two years. Throughout this economic downturn, we have continued to lend to our customers, but customer demand and therefore earning asset growth remains soft. Against this backdrop, it is important to note that we remain firmly committed to our discipline in managing credit risk and interest rate risk and to managing our Company for long-term earnings growth, not short-term quarterly results.

In short, we believe we have had demonstrable success throughout these tough economic times and we have positioned our franchise well for better economic times ahead. We have held onto customers by providing a full spectrum of products and services to meet their needs throughout this period.

We have dominant market positions in consumer, commercial, retail brokerage and other key business areas. We have a tremendous nationwide distribution network. In other words, Wells Fargo has proven to have the right business model and is right where it needs to be to be successful going forward.

In our view, while the US economy is gradually regaining its footing, it has yet to deliver a broad-based recovery for our country and for many of our customers. Though the signs of strength we are seeing in the economy are encouraging, we are not counting on them alone to deliver the performance you have come to expect from Wells Fargo. I'm confident our Company will continue to find and leverage opportunities that are unique to our diversified business model, our valued customer relationships and our disciplined approach to managing our balance sheet. Now let me turn this over to Howard Atkins, our Chief Financial Officer.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO CORP.: Thank you, John. My remarks will follow the presentation that is included in the first-quarter quarterly supplement that is available on the Wells Fargo Investor Relations website and I am going to focus in on first-quarter earnings, capital and credit.

Slide 3 of that presentation provides a high-level summary of the key messages about our first quarter. There are essentially three things I would like you all to take away from our first-quarter results. First, we are very pleased with the $2.5 billion profit that was earned in the quarter, but we are even more pleased with the way that those results were achieved.

Our earnings were broad-based. Each major business segment earned money and each contributed to the overall earnings result. Businesses as diverse as trust and investments, debit card, merchant processing, insurance, asset-based lending, real estate brokerage, all had very strong revenue growth year-over-year.

In essence, as we think about our earnings, our earnings continue to come from core retail and commercial banking. Less than 3% of our total revenue this quarter was from trading and market-sensitive income and less than 5% of our total revenue was from net mortgage hedging results.

The second message is that credit appears to have turned the corner. When we look back at this period, we will likely mark the third quarter of 2009 as the peak in provision expense and the fourth quarter of 2009 as the peak in charge-offs. Provision expense, charge-offs, early-stage delinquencies, roll rates on both the impaired and unimpaired Pick-a-Pay portfolios and inflows to non-accruals all continued to show improvement in the first quarter in both the total consumer and total commercial portfolios.

In part, this is related to the gradual improvement we have seen in housing and labor markets, but this largely reflects the actions we have taken beginning almost three years ago to reduce risk and reduce loss in our loan portfolios.

And our third message is we continued to build capital in the quarter. Our balance sheet, which has always been very strong, has never been as strong as it is right now.

So let me delve into these key messages in a little bit more detail. On slide 4, you can see that we earned again over $2.5 billion in net income after tax in the first quarter. That equates to $2.37 billion net income to common, roughly in line with the net income available to common we earned in the first quarter of 2009, which was a record at that time and we earned that even with the decline in loans and increase in merger integration expenses from last year. Diluted earnings per share, of course, in the quarter was $0.45.

We have always had among the best operating margins among large peers and we continue to do so in the first quarter, as you can see on slide 5. One of the key metrics we look at is return on assets. This is the metric where growth, operating margin and risk discipline all meet. We have always had one of the highest return on assets among large peers and we once again had among the highest in the first quarter at 84 basis points.

We would like to see our return on assets closer to the 1.5% we have earned historically. Our return on assets is typically higher than our peers for four reasons. First, our net interest margin tends to be higher. Our NIM was 4.27% in the first quarter, up 11 basis points year-over-year, largely reflecting the fact that we continue to experience very strong growth in checking and savings deposits, which were up 12% year-over-year.

Secondly, we tend to have a lower credit loss rate on our loan portfolio because of our strong underwriting discipline and the concentration of our loan portfolio in lower loss rate real estate secured loans.

Third, we tend to have a very positive operating leverage. Our efficiency ratio in the quarter was 56.5%, in line with the prior quarter's post-Wachovia's acquisition.

And fourth, a higher proportion of our total revenue comes from fee income, which is less asset-intensive and this derives from the cross-sell model that we have always had at the Company. Our business model also generates internally lots of new capital, which is why we have among the highest ROEs among large commercial bank peers even as our total capital increases.

Now we have always been committed to maintaining a strong capital position for growth that is consistent with our risk profile. As you can see on slide 6, our capital ratios are now higher than pre-Wachovia and pre-TARP levels, while, at the same time, we are a more balanced, more diverse, less risky company with Wachovia in the mix. We are certainly more diversified geographically, by customer segment and by source of income.

Our capital ratios have been growing rapidly because our business model produces such a high rate of internal capital generation. In the first quarter, we added 60 basis points to Tier 1 common, all internally generated. As I see it, we have never been better positioned in terms of our balance sheet strength. Our Tier 1 capital is now at $98 billion. Our allowance for credit reserves is now at $26 billion. The remaining non-accretable difference for purchase credit impaired loans is almost $20 billion. Our mortgage repurchase reserve is $1.3 billion and we have $7.4 billion of unrealized gains in our available-for-sale securities portfolio.

We are more liquid and have greater capacity to add assets than at any time in my tenure as the CFO of this Ccompany. We would love to see more loan demand or add more securities, but we are not willing to compromise our underwriting or pricing requirements or add long-term securities at what we believe to be low, long-term yields.

Now despite a 7% decline in loans year-over-year, our total revenue is actually up 2%. There are four reasons for this increase as I see it. First, our NIM, as I mentioned before, was up 11 basis points. That is a function of strong deposit growth and the strong composition of checking and savings that we have in our overall deposit mix.

Secondly, as John mentioned, we are already realizing revenue synergies from the Wachovia acquisition. Cross-sell is going up at Wachovia. We have got a broader distribution of core banking products through Wachovia's powerful financial advisor channel and the application of Wachovia's product set to the Wells Fargo customer base is also adding revenue.

Third, the breadth of our business model clearly contributes to our overall revenue. Other revenue sources, of course, made up for the decline in lending income, including trust and investment fees, which were up 20%, insurance revenue up 7% and processing and other fees, up 14%.

Fourth, underpinning all of the above is the continued growth in cross-sell in our Company. So on cross-sell, retail banking -- the retail banking business achieved record sales of $7.81 million solutions, sales in other words, in the first quarter, up 16% from a year ago and also record cross-sell, which crossed six products per household on average.

Keep in mind that this increase in the average products per household has been occurring on a growing base of households. In other words, productivity is going up, as well as deeper product penetration.

One of the main opportunities from the Wachovia merger was to deepen customer relationships at Wachovia through cross-sell. When we acquired Wachovia, we estimated that the retail cross-sell was about 4.5 products on average compared with Wells Fargo's 5.8. So getting Wachovia just to where Wells Fargo was a year ago represents about a 30% lift to revenue from Wachovia's retail customer base, which is roughly the same size as the legacy Wells Fargo customer base.

By applying Wells Fargo's retail business model to the East footprint, we are well on our way to realizing that opportunity. Legacy Wachovia cross-sell increased from 4.55 products to 4.85 products, which helped drive the overall Company's revenue growth year-over-year.

Slide 9 shows you our loans. A couple of key points on this. First, we continue to supply large amounts of credit to the US economy, over $128 billion in new originations and loan commitments just in the first quarter of 2010. But as John indicated, loan demand overall remains soft. Now, we did see some signs of growth in loans in some portfolios. Auto loans, for example, increased 14% linked quarter annualized. Student loans increased 13% linked quarter annualized and anecdotally, we are also experiencing more conversations at least with commercial customers about their potential credit needs. But fundamentally, we don't expect material new loan demand until the economic recovery really takes hold.

Fortunately and typically when that happens, Wells Fargo tends to get the first shot at the loan because the customer already has all its other noncredit businesses with us.

When we acquired Wachovia, we committed to aggressively reduce the higher-risk nonstrategic assets that we inherited from Wachovia and as you can see on slide 10, we have continued to do that. Reducing the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, indirect home equity and Wells Fargo's indirect auto portfolios, a combined $23 billion or about 20% since the merger.

To put that in context, about a third of the decline we have experienced in our total loan portfolio since acquiring Wachovia is from our actions to reduce risk, not from reduced loan demand.

On deposits, slide 11, we continue to get great deposit growth. We measure success in deposits in one fashion by looking at our net gain. In other words, net new checking accounts. Net new checking accounts are up 7% year-over-year for the Company. In fact, in two important markets, one on the west coast, California, one on the East Coast, New Jersey, those markets are experiencing net gain growth that is well above the average across our footprint.

Period-end checking and savings deposit balances were up 12% year-over-year and very importantly, 88% of our core deposits are now in the form of checking and savings accounts. So we continue to appear to be the bank of choice for our consumer and business customers to place their operating balances.

We now have run off almost all of Wachovia's higher-rate CDs with only about $5 billion maturing in 2010. And throughout this process, including the first quarter of 2010, we were very successful in retaining those deposits into lower-rate checking, savings and CDs.

A couple comments on expenses, slide 12. As you can see, our operating expenses were relatively flat year-over-year. When we think about expenses in the Company, essentially we break down into three important missions for managing expenses.

First, we are endeavoring to achieve the targeted consolidation expense savings. We calculate that we have already realized about 70% of the annualized savings on an annualized run rate basis. In the first quarter of 2010, we incurred $380 million of integration costs. That is up from $205 million a year ago and we expect to incur approximately $2 billion in integration costs during 2010, roughly in line with our original expectations.

We are entering the more challenging part of the integration, as John mentioned before, but so far, we have achieved all the milestones. Everything is on schedule and we still expect to realize the $5 billion in run rate saves [from] systems and store conversions are fully completed in late 2011.

The second mission is on problem loans. We are diligently but quickly resolving problem loans on foreclosed assets [with a view towards] resolving problems as quickly as we can and ultimately reducing the costs that are connected with the resolution process. Costs connected with credit resolution were up about $250 million from the first quarter of 2009, but trailed off by about $25 million from the fourth quarter of 2009.

And third on expenses, we continue to invest for long-term revenue growth, particularly in building distribution for sales and technology for customer service.

A couple of things on the individual business lines I would like to point out. As I mentioned before, each of our main business lines -- community banking, wholesale banking, wealth and brokerage services -- were profitable in the quarter.

Quickly, on community banking, as you can see on slide 13, we had record sales, record cross-sell, very strong deposit growth. The mortgage servicing portfolio reached $1.8 trillion, up 2%. At the end of the quarter, the mortgage application pipeline was up about 4% from the prior quarter.

In wholesale banking, slide 14, wholesale banking has been very consistent in producing solid revenue growth. In the first quarter this year, revenue growth once again was up 9% from a year ago despite the decline in commercial loan demand over the last year. And in the asset management group, we have now reached $465 billion in assets under management.

In wealth brokerage and retirement services on slide 15, we are getting very solid growth in this business. Revenue was up 16% from the first quarter of '09 and we have now reached $1.1 trillion in retail brokerage client assets. That is up 22% year-over-year.

Let me now turn to credit. Slide 16 provides some detail on the impact of adopting FAS 167 on our credit portfolios. It is important to understand this detail in order to understand the underlying trends in credit quality at the Company.

While FAS 167 had only a one basis point impact on Tier 1 common, it added $909 million to non-accruals in the quarter and $123 million to charge-offs in the quarter. In addition to the charge-offs from FAS 166, 167, charge-offs in the first quarter included $145 million related to newly issued regulatory charge-off guidance applicable to collateral-dependent residential real estate loan modifications. That relates to high LTV, low FICO, interest-only, consumer real estate mods that have already been reserved for.

So with that as perspective, on slide 17, as John indicated before, we believe that credit at Wells Fargo has indeed turned the corner. Provision expense appears to have peaked in the third quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010 provision expense of $5.3 billion was down almost $800 million from the peak and about $600 million from the fourth quarter of 2009. As indicated in the slide, the $5.3 billion provision expense in the quarter included the $145 million for collateral-dependent loans and the $123 million for FAS 167. So provision expense for all other charge-offs was $5.06 billion, down from $5.41 billion in the fourth quarter on an apples-to-apples basis.

Two quarters ago, as you can see on slide 18, we were one of the first and few banks to project a peaking in credit costs and we now believe charge-offs already peaked in the fourth quarter, earlier than we previously thought. Commercial and commercial real estate losses actually declined $356 million in the quarter, declining in all major commercial categories -- C&I lending, commercial real estate and lease financing.

Losses in our $132 billion commercial real estate portfolio declined in the first quarter by $59 million, reducing the net charge-off rate to about 2%. This portfolio is secured by a well-diversified mix of property types across wholesale banking, community banking and wealth brokerage and retirement services. The performance of the CRE portfolio has benefited from some price stability, increased liquidity and the actions we have taken over the past year focused on restructuring disposition and workout strategies.

Slide 18 also indicates where we have charge-offs in the consumer portfolios for FAS 167 and modified loans. Apart from those two items, all other consumer charge-offs were essentially flat in the quarter with all other revolving credit and installment charge-offs actually down largely due to improved auto finance markets.

One of the reasons we are confident credit has turned is the stabilization and improvement we are experiencing in early-stage delinquencies across the major consumer portfolios as you can see on chart 19. Card and auto delinquencies stabilized in the middle of last year and showed noticeable improvement in the most recent quarter. Secured real estate is taking a little longer, but began to show improvement in delinquencies in the first quarter of 2010.

Our $125 billion non-PCI home equity portfolio also demonstrated some positive credit trends in the first quarter. The delinquency rates on this portfolio, two or more payments past due, decreased in the first quarter to 3.4%, down from 3.58% in the fourth quarter. Delinquencies declined in both the liquidating and the core portfolios and for loans in both California and Florida. Delinquency rates on loans in the core portfolio with a combined LTV above 100% were only 5.27% as the vast majority of customers with negative equity continued to make their payments.

On March 17, we announced that we signed the agreement for the second-lien modification program and we expect to begin offering the second-lien programs to customers who have both a Wells Fargo first and second lien customers within the next couple of weeks and we will offer the program for other customers later in the second quarter.

On the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, which is highlighted on slide 20, roll rates on both the impaired and unimpaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio continued to trend better. The size of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio continued to decline in the quarter with $82.9 billion outstanding at quarter-end, down over $10 billion from a year ago. This portfolio continued to perform better than expected at the time of the merger, driven by 57,000 completed modifications experiencing lower than industry redefault rates and stabilization in home prices in certain markets where we have significant outstandings.

This quarter, the current LTVs actually declined in both the impaired and nonimpaired Pick-a-Pay portfolios. Early-stage delinquency trends improved, 30 days past due loans stabilizing and showing early indications of improvement in both the PCI and nonimpaired portfolios. We also saw continued improvements in first-time delinquencies, which are the percentage of new 30 plus day delinquent loans that are delinquent for the first time in the life of the loan.

In the nonimpaired portfolio, the percentage of first-time delinquents has dropped for four consecutive quarters and in the PCI portfolio, the ratio of first-time delinquents was at levels not seen since early 2008. These improved trends led to our confidence in releasing $549 million of the remaining $14.5 billion non-acceptable difference into accretable yield related to the improved life of loan loss estimates that we now see. And this compares with only $27 million released in all of last year. This increase in accretable yield, of course, will be recognized through interest income over many years.

Let me now turn to non-accrual loans on slide 21. Non-accrual loans, as you can see, were up in the quarter. $909 million, of course, as I said, related to the FAS 167 amounts, but we do not believe that the increase in non-accrual loans translates into increased future losses since these non-accruals have either already been written down or their expected loss content has already been reserved for.

A couple of important statistics on non-accrual loans. 37% of our total consumer non-accrual loans have already been written down and approximately two-thirds of consumer loans have either been written down or have current LTVs below 80%.

On the commercial side, 29% of the commercial non-accrual loans have already been written down, 69% have been reserved for at life of loan projected loss content through the FAS (technical difficulty) allowance process and the remainder are accounted for with reduced future loss projections and reserves through the general allowance assessment.

Over 45% of commercial and CRE non-accruals are currently paying interest that is applied to principal. All of the increase in OREO in the quarter by definition represents assets that have been written down and the bulk of the increase in OREO reflects Ginnie Mae guaranteed mortgage pools or PCI real estate that shifted into OREO from accruing PCI loans.

The increase in non-accrual loans primarily came from consumer real estate and commercial real estate. Non-accruals in all of the other loan categories have stabilized or declined. Consumer real estate non-accruals remained elevated, largely due to slower outflows, not increased quarterly inflows. Our efforts to keep customers in their homes through loan modifications require customers to provide updated documentation and complete six-month trial repayment periods before the loan can be removed from non-accrual status.

In addition for loans in the process of foreclosure, many states, including California and Florida, have enacted legislation that significantly increases the timeframes to complete the foreclosure process, which can be as long as 18 months, which means that loans remain in non-accrual status for longer periods even though the loss has already been taken.

Once a loan completes the foreclosure process, we have been able to sell the property in a very timely fashion. When a consumer real estate loan is 120 days past due, we move it directly to non-accrual status and when the loan reaches 180 days past due, it is our policy to mark it down to net realizable value. Thereafter, we revalue each loan in non-accrual status regularly and recognize additional charges if needed.

Since home prices have stabilized in many metropolitan areas, we do not anticipate significant additional write-downs on consumer real estate loans that are already in non-accrual loan status.

On the commercial side, CRE non-accrual loan inflows actually declined 27% in the first quarter, but is typically in everyone's economic interest, including ours, to write the loan down, but to continue to have the developer work the project for us rather than foreclose. The process of restructuring and executing these solutions can take several quarters to complete and throughout this process, these loans are closely monitored, collateral is reevaluated and if necessary, loss content is recognized.

It is worth noting, I believe, that, compared with our large peers, our total loan portfolio is comprised of proportionately less unsecured credit. For example, only 3% of our total loans are credit cards and proportionately more real estate secured loans, both consumer and commercial.

Now what this means is that some of our large peers have higher reserve coverage, which makes sense because unsecured loans, credit card in particular, have higher loss rates and therefore, they have higher charge-offs and fewer non-accruals since unsecured loans are charged off more quickly.

By comparison, a portfolio with proportionally more real estate secured loans like Wells Fargo would be expected to have lower loss rates, lower charge-offs, but lagging non-accrual improvements due to the extended period that real estate secured loans need in order to have complete resolution and with more collateral supporting the non-accruals.

Page 22 goes over our PCI loan portfolio, which is clearly performing better than our original expectations. Since the final true-up write-down of the PCI loan portfolio, we have now realized $476 million of value for PCI loans paid in full. We have realized $207 million on the loans sold. We have reclassified $1.1 billion into accretable yield for improving cash flow. And remember that will be taken into income over a long period of time. And we have also provided $1 billion for loans that have deteriorated since the Wachovia acquisition was completed. When you add all those things together, that gives you a net increase of $774 million in the value of the PCI portfolio.

Slide 23 goes over our allowance. At March 31, our allowance was $25.7 billion, up almost $4 billion from the close of the Wachovia merger. That is equal to five times a decline in quarterly charge-off and 3.3% of our total loans. In addition, of course, we have the $19.9 billion in non-accretable difference for our PCI loans.

So very quickly in summary, we had $2.5 billion in earnings across a traditional and diverse business, serving consumers, small businesses and commercial customers. We believe credit has turned and our balance sheet has never been stronger and our financial capacity for growth never better. I would like to now open up the call for questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). John McDonald, Sanford Bernstein.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: Hi, good morning, Howard and John. On the repurchase reserve, Howard, do you have any visibility on how far along we might be in this process? Have we potentially turned the corner here? Do we know?

HOWARD ATKINS: We think we are pretty far along. Most of the activity here relates to some of the older vintages, which we think have now been cleared through. So obviously we take this one quarter at a time, but we did add a pretty significant $400 million to the reserve in the quarter and we think it is a robust reserve at this point.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And have you disclosed the amount of the reserve?

HOWARD ATKINS: $1.3 billion.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then on the net interest income fund, Howard, could you discuss a couple of the -- kind of what influenced the margin decline quarter-to-quarter and just looking ahead, what are your ability to grow net interest income or at least stop it from going down if loan demand does not come back?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, ironically, the four basis points is largely attributable to the strong deposit growth that we have had in the quarter. We are, as I mentioned, very, very liquid. We continue to get this very strong deposit growth and soft loan demand and we are keeping our powder dry on the investment portfolio. So what all that means is the deposit growth, which is good for revenue and good for earnings, is really winding up being invested in short-term cash. So that is really why the margin went down the four bps. And we will take the deposit growth because that really leads to all kinds of other good things in the Company and we will just have to see where loan demand goes.

JOHN MCDONALD: And in terms of securities, you are still cautious waiting for higher yields to reinvest?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, this is a long-term proposition. We obviously evaluate it quarter-to-quarter, but securities were down, they are maturing and we are keeping our powder dry. We obviously manage interest-rate risk here very carefully. We want to keep our rate risk as neutral as we can, but we still think that the right thing to do is invest for the long term.

JOHN MCDONALD: Related to that on the MSR hedge, were you relatively fully hedged this quarter and are you bias towards becoming less hedged as rates rise? Can you kind of discuss how you think about that?

HOWARD ATKINS: We have been relatively fully hedged, as you would expect, as long as long-term rates have been coming down as they have for the last several years. We did shift the composition in the hedge somewhat in the quarter, which is not unusual. But we do want to take into account the possibility of extension risk in the hedges and if anything, we may have tilted a little bit towards a slightly lower hedge because we think, again, the odds of higher long-term rates are greater than the odds of lower long-term rates. So naturally in that kind of situation, we would be a little bit less hedged. But I don't want to make too much of that. We didn't significantly reduce the size of the hedge. We are just sort of tilting that way a little bit.

JOHN MCDONALD: It wasn't clear to me in the documents, maybe you disclosed it, did you have a reduction in the carry income on the hedge this quarter and did you disclose the amount on that?

HOWARD ATKINS: We didn't. The overall hedging result was down about $900 million in the quarter, to bring it roughly in line with where hedging results were in the early part of last year, sort of more typical for this point in the cycle, largely due to change in the composition of the hedge and as I say, we tilted it a little bit more from higher coupon mortgage forwards into lower note rates and into interest-rate swaps to get a little bit more balance in the hedge.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay and my last question is on the PCI portfolio, the accretable yield balance went up to $15.8 billion. It looks like the drivers are both the modifications and then some change in your life of loan loss assumptions. Is that right? They both contributed?

HOWARD ATKINS: That is correct. Although the more important effect will be the modifications. We have been very successful in modifying this portfolio. And as a result, cash flows are improving.

JOHN MCDONALD: Is there room -- last quarter, you mentioned that if current trends continued, there is room to change the life of the loan loss assumption if those trends continue. Is there room for that to change ahead going forward?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, again, we are being very cautious and very diligent about that and we did, as I mentioned, take in some this quarter and there is more to come if this process continues and things improve, there definitely is some possibility there down the road.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And the nine-year life of loan loss assumption, the nine-year duration assumption on the Pick-a-Pay, is that starting from here or over the life meaning that there is more like five or six years left to go?

HOWARD ATKINS: That is basically -- it is roughly from here, but again, that is an estimate. These portfolios have -- it is duration, it's not fixed maturity, so that can change as interest rates change up and down over the cycle.

JOHN MCDONALD: But that is roughly the period over which you would recognize that accretable yield?

HOWARD ATKINS: Correct.

JOHN MCDONALD: Thank you.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, you have got to be -- that's an estimate, so just be careful. It is a rough number, right?

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And is it even over that life or does it fade as the balance of impaired loans goes down?

HOWARD ATKINS: It is rough John. It is going to change, okay? The main point is it is going to -- we are not taking all of this into income right away and it will just be spread over a period of time as these loan balances mature over that time period.

JOHN STUMPF: I think, John, the takeaway here is cash flows are improving. We are starting to move very cautiously, but moving non-accretable into accretable. More and more of these loans, we are moving out of the Pick-a-Pay category into fixed-rate, so they don't have the negative am opportunity and we feel good about where we are in that portfolio.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, thanks, guys.

OPERATOR: Matthew O'Connor, Deutsche Bank.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR, ANALYST, DEUTSCHE BANK: Hi, John, Howard. I guess first a big picture question. What is your strategy on home equity? We are seeing some banks essentially exiting the business and anticipating a lot of runoff there. So you have got about $100 billion book I think in the core portfolio. Just what is the strategy and then any guess on where those balances bottom out?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, Matt, we are in that business. We think it is an important product to offer as part of the product suite to help customers succeed financially. We are doing that business, obviously, differently in some cases than we've had in the past. But frankly now is some of the better time to do that business. And I think as a general statement, consumers will probably borrow less in the future compared to the past as they save more, but we are not exiting that business.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. So it is not going to go down like 50% or 75% like we might see if some other banks (multiple speakers).

JOHN STUMPF: As we sell more and deepen relationships with customers, we do business with one in three Americans one way or another, so I can't make that prediction. But we sure like the performance of the vintages in the last few years.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately, a little more of a detail question, as we think about the net interest margin, one thing that is dragging it down in the industry and I think for your guys would be the high level of nonperforming assets and yours are up to I think about $30 billion, $31 billion or so. Do you guys have a rough estimate on what the drag is to the NIM from the NPAs and some of the interest reversals?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, the NPAs themselves, at this point, given the fact that short-term interest rates are so low, is really not a big impact. As I said before, the bigger impact is the cash that we have on the balance sheet that has been built up on a trend basis, but --.

JOHN STUMPF: You can just -- if you just (multiple speakers) our average loans equal about 5% give or take and you can --.

HOWARD ATKINS: We are talking about bps on that. We are not talking about --.

JOHN STUMPF: Actually, the bigger cost, Matt, to be honest about it, is all the people we have decked against all the modifications and the workouts and so forth. That is not an insignificant number. And as we get through this cycle, of course, we will be very thoughtful about taking those numbers down and getting that team right-sized.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: I guess on that note, do you have an estimate of what the environmental costs are?

JOHN STUMPF: They are a lot.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, as I said --.

JOHN STUMPF: We have 17,400 people decked against just in the mortgage company. So that is one area of doing modifications and there is lots of other folks around here doing commercial and other areas in loss mitigation besides all the appraisal costs, legal costs and so forth.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, I mean just to give you some idea, as I mentioned earlier, if you just add up all the foreclosed property expense and the people that we have got decked up against loan resolution, that cost alone is up about $250 million from a year ago, maybe running around $150 million, $170 million in the first quarter of this year above the average from last year. So that is going to stay high for a short period of time, but really does represent a pretty important opportunity down the road to unwind those costs in the future.

MATTHEW O'CONNOR: Okay. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Chris Kotowski, Oppenheimer.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI, ANALYST, OPPENHEIMER & CO.: Yes, good morning. I wonder can you describe the second lien program a bit that you said. And you said it was first with Wells being both in the first and second position and do you forgive principal or just stretch it out? And then how would you modify a mortgage where you are the second to somebody else's first? Hello?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, I mean we do this a lot of different ways. We have been modifying seconds frankly for a long period of time, so the program here is really not very different from the way we have been doing it all along. We do modify in terms -- sometimes in terms of interest, sometimes in terms of principle, so we use all the methods to make this happen.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: And is there anyway you can sketch out what, if any, financial impact that has and what -- I mean would we see it on the charge off-line? Would we see it in the yield line? Is this something that we are going to notice at all in the financials in any meaningful way?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, I think at the end of the day, we don't think these programs are going to have a meaningful difference in net losses. It is just we are using many of these tools already in the toolbox and so whether it be 2MP or whatever the case is, we are working with these customers and in most cases where we do use a principal forgiveness, customer has to have at least enough income to pay the new payment and you have to look at a house or a housing situation where there is a highly -- it's highly unlikely that value will come back in any reasonable period of time. But this is just one of a number of tools that we use as we work with these customers.

HOWARD ATKINS: And I'd say the 2MP program itself, again, is very consistent with the way we have always been modifying seconds and therefore, you could conclude that the estimates of what that means financially we have already, in effect, accounted for in our reserve position.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. And then secondly, on the Wachovia synergies, you have said that you have realized 70% and obviously there has been many quarters now since the merger happened and there is organic growth and expenses and cutting. I lost a bit of track of it in the numbers, but is there a reasonable way to think about this that, if you are originally said you would have $5 billion in savings and you still expect to get 30% of that, that would be about $1.5 billion. And so if we look at the rate of expense growth from 2010 to 2011, if we were going to say there is a $40 billion base and you would have 5%, 6%, 7% growth off that, then we subtract out $1.5 billion, is that the right way to think about it?

HOWARD ATKINS: That's a good approximation, yes.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay, thank you.

JOHN STUMPF: And recognize we have been reinvesting, right, in distribution, in people and that is -- we always want to do that so we can serve our customers completely and develop those relationships.

CHRIS KOTOWSKI: Okay. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck, Morgan Stanley.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Thanks, good morning.

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Two questions. One, can you tell us how much cash interest on non-accruals you received this quarter?

JOHN STUMPF: I don't think -- do we have that, Howard?

HOWARD ATKINS: We will get back to you on that, Betsy.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then secondly, the question I always get on the second liens is, gee, why are their delinquencies so low when there's obviously a relatively high portion that is underwater. Maybe to address that question, could you just give us a sense of what you see as the drivers for the delinquencies in your home equity book and the drivers for the charge-offs because it is clearly not LTV?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, as I think I've mentioned in the past, I actually grew up as a collector and the things that cause delinquency and frankly loss are the same things that were there 35 years ago when I started and the biggest issue there is unemployment. If people have a job, they want to and tend to pay their bills. So what causes loans to go into a delinquency situation typically is, if you want the big four, it is death, divorce, unscheduled medical payment and a lack of a job. And lack of a job is the big one.

So we have many, many of our customers in the home equity area who are either high loan-to-value, over 100% combined loan-to-value who are paying as agreed, never missed a payment. In fact, there is, in many cases, there is little correlation between LTV and delinquency. But there is a big correlation between high LTV and loss because when they don't have any income and they are upside down, there is going to be a loss there.

BETSY GRASECK: So then you have got the --.

JOHN STUMPF: So Betsy, so I look at jobs more than I look at LTVs with respect to the performance of the home equity portfolio.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. That's helpful. Because the other question is on the seconds, was this really a secured product or is the documentation such that it is a secured product and does that matter for how you are reserving for it?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, again, it is secured to the extent that there is collateral there, right? But it is also -- people are -- there has been times in my life I have been upside down on a mortgage and if you give people a job, they want to stay in their home, they pay.

BETSY GRASECK: And then on the HAMP programs where there is the new program that came out a few weeks ago that hasn't yet started, but where, on the first liens, you would be required to potentially do principal forgiveness, seemingly to a greater degree than you have done already. Is that going to change how you are thinking about recognizing loss content in the portfolios that you've got? I know, Howard, you have indicated that you are already reserved for a large part of what you are seeing in the home equity portfolio, but I am wondering if the principal forgiveness in the HAMP ones is going to impact that at all?

JOHN STUMPF: No, we have -- I think through the first quarter, we have forgiven $2.8 billion on programs outside of HAMP and we think that was the right thing to do. And it is just one of the tools we use and it doesn't work for every customer. But no, that won't have a significant impact on how we look at reserves or how we look at that portfolio.

HOWARD ATKINS: And again, Betsy, keep in mind that while HAMP is new and 2MP is new, we have been modifying these portfolios for the last five quarters. So that is not new, so we have been employing all of these methods for a longer period of time.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Chris Mutascio, Stifel Nicolaus.

CHRIS MUTASCIO, ANALYST, STIFEL NICOLAUS: Good morning, thanks for taking my call. Hey, Howard, I don't want to beat a dead horse on the liquidity, but I'm looking at your Fed funds sold position and at $54 billion, that's more than some of the banks I cover. Is there any --in terms of assets -- is there any point on the curve I should be paying more attention to that would suggest when you start reinvesting some of that massive excess liquidity?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, at the point where rates are higher.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Is it a five year, is it a seven year, is it two year, is it the Fed just moving interest rates on the short end?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, look, I think the notion of buying really long-term assets before the Fed has actually even started tightening is just something that we would need to think really carefully about. So this is not new, Chris. We have always managed the portfolio this way, as you know. We keep our investment portfolio itself pretty liquid. It is typically mortgage-backed securities and --.

JOHN STUMPF: Plain vanilla.

HOWARD ATKINS: Very plain vanilla. It is designed to frankly manage -- to keep the balance sheet risk, interest-rate risk neutral against a growing base of long-duration deposits that we have on the other side of the balance sheet. And it just makes sense to us to take our time here and do this right as we always have.

JOHN STUMPF: And frankly, Chris, we have been also sellers, as you recall, when we think things are -- at the right time, we have moved assets off the balance sheet because we were afraid of things going up. So I think we have shown discipline over time both in the buy and sell side.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: No, that's fair. I think you have shown the discipline. I am just looking at a huge amount of excess liquidity that you are kind of underearning on that until rates go up I guess. (multiple speakers).

HOWARD ATKINS: In the meantime, Chris, as you know, we have also been paying down debt on the other side of the balance sheet. We have a very, very flexible debt issuance position right now. We have, relative to the large peers, about half as much debt maturing in the next couple of years as the other big companies. So we actually think of the balance sheet as being a very flexible position and we are going to manage it as neutrally as we can.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Kind of a follow-up question? When I look at your tax rate this quarter, you kind of skirted or kind of bucked the trend in that many of my banks are showing lower tax rates. You guys had a significant increase in tax rate. If I calculate it correctly, your taxable equivalent rate was about 37%. Is that a good run rate going forward or is there -- I saw in the release it was impacted a little bit by a certain item, but still it seems like a pretty high tax rate going forward.

HOWARD ATKINS: We calculate it out around 35%, Chris and it did include the $50 some odd million item that we indicated. Likely that it will be slightly down over the balance of the year. And again, that gets impacted in our case by, as you know, by the mix between taxable income and tax exempt income and the overall net income before tax. So that is one of the reasons it goes up and down, but I think you should expect it to be down a little bit over 2010.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: And just one final thing. Can you refresh -- given the stories in the news about CDOs, can you refresh my memory on what your exposure is from the Wachovia side to CDO products and what you have written them down to?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, on the Wells side, we were never in that business and Wachovia was mostly in commercial real estate, but exited that business toward the end of 2007, which was a year before the merger.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Have you disclosed what the collar is and what they have been written down to?

HOWARD ATKINS: We haven't, but I think generally you could assume that we have written them down to fair value at kind of the worst point in the cycle.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: Okay. Anything else you can add to that or no?

HOWARD ATKINS: Nope.

CHRIS MUTASCIO: All right. Thank you.

OPERATOR: Nancy Bush, NAB Research.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB RESEARCH: Good morning, guys. Two questions. Pick-a-Pay, can you tell us what the life on that portfolio is at this point? In other words, at what point do we start just sort of ignoring the Pick-a-Pay portfolio from a size perspective? I would like to ignore it now, but I can't.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, it is roughly an $89 billion portfolio that has dropped -- it's dropping --.

JOHN STUMPF: $82 billion.

HOWARD ATKINS: I'm sorry, $82 billion. That's declining a couple billion dollars a quarter. So we are down $10 billion year-over-year. So as we said before, there's around nine years or so left from a duration perspective.

JOHN STUMPF: And we are also moving the portfolio away from the Pick-a-Pay option to a fixed or a non -- negative am kind of product. So Nancy, about two-thirds of our PCI portfolio in Pick-a-Pay is in California and over 50% of the total portfolio is here, which has been good news for us because that kind of housing -- the average loan there is $220,000 or so, is more of a starter home and that housing has reached a bottom and probably bounced off the bottom here. So of all the portfolios I worry a lot about, this is not one of them.

NANCY BUSH: My second question would just be this. I mean as rates rise, and inevitably they will hopefully, do you expect any changes in deposit behavior, in the stickiness of deposits? Do you expect that you are going to have to share more of the rise with consumers as they become more knowledgeable that rates are coming off of the floor? If you could just give us your thoughts about any inflection point in rates and how it impacts deposits?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, what happens, Nancy, is that typically on the upside when rates start to turn around, we actually, at least how it works historically, historically, we actually see a benefit because some of the deposits we have are fixed rate and some of the assets reprice earlier.

And secondly, this company versus almost any other of our competitors, so many of our deposits are either interest-free or near free that they don't reprice and we are paying the price today because you can't bring them any lower than zero in their cost. When rates turn around, they become more valuable of course. So who knows what happens this time around, but we want to be competitive, we want to give our depositors a fair deal and we are thoughtful on the way up, but I don't view that as a big risk.

NANCY BUSH: All right, thank you.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford, RBC Capital Markets.

JOE MORFORD, ANALYST, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, everyone. You mentioned commercial real estate inflows were down 27% sequentially, but commercial real estate non-accrual loans were up 20%. Just wondering if you could reconcile that? Is it just the lag of migration or the fact that you let developers continue to work the projects and where, in the commercial real estate portfolio, are you seeing the most improvement?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, developers are working the projects, Joe. That is exactly the issue. And many times, we are not experts in this and we will -- the ultimate resolution that maximizes values where we want to be. So in many cases, we will put something on non-accrual, we will still be collecting interest, like Howard said. Almost half of our commercial real estate loans that are in non-accrual are still paying interest and -- but we want to be conservative and take that route and get those things worked out.

HOWARD ATKINS: And that really is the point, Joe. So the non-accruals -- the inflows are going down a lot, which is good news for the future. And it is just -- it is just in everybody's interest to have a developer continue to work the project and keep whatever cash flow is going going rather than toss it into foreclosed and have us try to deal with it. So that is just economically better for everybody.

JOE MORFORD: That makes sense. Does that 27% decline include construction or is it just term CRE?

HOWARD ATKINS: It's --.

JOHN STUMPF: It's everything.

HOWARD ATKINS: (technical difficulty) CRE. Inflows are down 27%.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And then separately, would you please update us on your expectations for the impact of Reg E and the change in overdraft fees and talk about any efforts you are working on to mitigate that?

JOHN STUMPF: It hasn't changed from what we had previously announced and we are going to be coming out shortly with the way that we are going to work with customers and provide them choice as part of the changes that will affect new customers July 1 and I think existing customers on August 16.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. And can you remind us how much of your revenues currently come from overdraft fees?

JOHN STUMPF: I think we have mentioned that it is a $500 million impact for this year.

JOE MORFORD: Okay. All right. Fair enough. Thanks so much.

OPERATOR: Moshe Orenbuch, Credit Suisse.

MOSHE ORENBUCH, ANALYST, CREDIT SUISSE: Great, thanks. I was intrigued by the comment in the press release about the rate of NPA increase kind of lagging charge-offs. I mean I think that is very different than kind of prior cycles. Is that a function of the charges you have taken on NPAs, the marks on the credit impaired loans, some combination? Because that is not -- normally it is the other way around. Normally charge-offs kind of keep going up well after NPAs crest.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, that phenomenon in part is due to the nature of the portfolio being a secured portfolio. So the sequencing is we charge it down, write it down, but it may hang in non-accrual for a period of time as either the commercial loans get worked off or the consumer real estate gets modified or something else happens to the loan. So it is just the nature of the portfolio, Moshe.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: And it's -- I guess is it a different way of working it out, it's with the existing either homeowner or developer somewhat longer. Is that -- I mean is that the upshot?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, I think the modification process and the fact that so many of these loans are now out there is taking perhaps a little bit longer than it would normally take in prior cycles. But fundamentally, it is the nature of the portfolio again being very different than an unsecured portfolio, just much higher losses, but you are getting rid of the non-accruals by just getting rid of the loan.

MOSHE ORENBUCH: Great, thanks so much.

JOHN STUMPF: Thank you. Well, -- is the operator -- okay, well, thank you all very much for joining the call. We appreciate your interest in our Company and we thank you for your time and we will talk to you next quarter at the same time. Thank you very much.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | ereal : Real Estate Markets | c151 : Earnings | e1102 : Money Supply | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c411 : Management Moves | c15 : Performance | c41 : Management Issues | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100505e64l000jl
  


 HD
 Q4  2009 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
10,544 words
   PD
20 January 2010
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©010 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning, my name is Celeste and I will be your conference operator today. At this time, I would like to welcome everyone to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call. All lines have been placed on mute to prevent any background noise. After the speakers' remarks, there will be a question-and-answer session. (Operator Instructions). Thank you. I would now like to turn today's call over to Mr. Bob Strickland. Please go ahead, sir.

BOB STRICKLAND, IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Good morning, this is Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at Wells Fargo. Thank you for joining us on our call today where John Stumpf and Howard Atkins will review fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 results and answer your questions.

   TD
Before we get started, I would like to remind you that our fourth-quarter earnings release and financial supplement are available on our website. I would also like to caution you that we may make forward-looking statements during today's call and that those forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties.

Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations are detailed in our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today and the earnings release and financial supplement included as exhibits.

In addition, some of the discussion today about the Company's performance will include references to non-GAAP financial measures. Information about those measures, including a reconciliation of those measures to GAAP measures, can be found in our SEC filings and in the earnings release and financial supplement available on our website at wellsfargo.com. I will now turn the call over to Chairman and CEO, John Stumpf.

JOHN STUMPF, CHAIRMAN, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, Bob, and thanks to everyone who has joined us this morning on this call. We appreciate your interest in Wells Fargo and look forward to reviewing our results and answering your questions.

First, let me say how proud I am of all of the dedicated Wells Fargo team members across the nation who put forth tremendous effort to help us achieve strong results throughout the year. In my 28 years at Wells Fargo, I believe 2009 was the best year we ever had in terms of positioning us for future growth.

Looking back at where we were last year at this time, I believe our business is better in virtually every aspect. We generated record earnings, strengthened our balance sheet and removed a great deal of risk from our businesses. We generated significant capital, both internally and externally, ending the year with capital ratios higher than they were before we completed the Wachovia merger.

I couldn't feel better about the opportunities ahead. With a company that is twice the size it was in 2008, we see tremendous opportunity ahead as we continue to integrate our two companies. The merger with Wachovia is exceeding all of our expectations in terms of expense savings, successfully meeting integration milestones, the quality of our team members and customers and the opportunities we see together going forward.

Now to be sure, we have had -- we've all had to manage through a lot of change and uncertainty over the past year. While the economy is starting to show some signs, positive signs, and pockets of stability, the unemployment rate is still too high and housing price improvement continues to be spotty. No doubt there will be surprises ahead.

But the business model that has served Wells Fargo well for over two decades focused on diversification and satisfying all of our customers' financial needs continues to serve us well in the current environment and will guide us through 2010 and beyond. In fact, if you liked Wells Fargo in the past, you should love us today.

As a result of the merger with Wachovia, our business model is even stronger. We have more geographic diversity and twice the number of customers who we can better serve with a more diverse and powerful set of products. We have more balance between fee income and interest income and between commercial and consumer businesses.

And while we have gained much with our merger with Wachovia, much has remained the same. We have the same strong management team -- I believe the best in the business -- made even better with the addition of Wachovia team members who remain focused on providing exceptional customer service. We have the same culture and singular focus on helping our customers succeed financially because when our customers succeed, so do we.

We measure hundreds of things every day at Wells Fargo. For example, how many checking accounts were opened? How many mortgages we originate? How many did we modify? How many assets do we have under management? But the most important thing we measure is revenue growth. We believe revenue growth is the best measure of how well we serve our customers.

In 2009, we generated a record $89 billion in revenue, including fourth-quarter revenue of $23 billion. This revenue growth was diverse with double-digit annualized linked-quarter growth in asset management, auto lending through Wachovia Dealer Services, merchant card, insurance, mortgage banking and wealth management.

With the merger, we see even more opportunities to grow. In addition, because of the financial crisis, we have never seen a better opportunity to grow marketshare and earn more of our existing customers' business. Let me give you some examples of what we already have achieved.

On average, retail bank household at legacy Wells Fargo now has 5.95 cross-sell of Wells Fargo products, up from 5.73 products just a year ago. Our marketshare in mortgage originations is 23%, up from 16% in 2008 and 10% in 2006.

In auto lending, we are the number one used auto lender with a 6% marketshare, up from 4% a year ago. In 2009, we ranked number one in middle-market lending marketshare, establishing more new relationships during that year than any other financial institution.

While these marketshare gains demonstrate how we have benefited from our strength in the marketplace, our goal has never been to get bigger for the sake of being number one. We always start at what is best for our customer and our shareholders. The share that matters the most to us is the share of our customers' business. When a customer brings us more business, we can give them a better deal, they stay with us longer, they give us more opportunities to sell them more products and services, we know more about them and their financial needs and we earn more profit per customer.

As I look at the year ahead, there are many exciting things happening at Wells Fargo that we believe will benefit us for years to come. But as we have always said, our top priority will be meeting the financial needs of our consumer and business customers helping them and Wells Fargo succeed financially. Now let me turn this over to our CFO, Howard Atkins, for more details on our fourth-quarter results and I'll be back with him at the end to take your questions. Howard?

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, John. I'd like to cover four topics in the next 20 minutes or so and then John and I would be happy to open up the call for your questions. Four things I'd like to talk about. First, a quick recap of our fourth-quarter results; secondly, I'll give you our take on credit quality; third, I'd like to give you an update on Wachovia and how credit expenses, revenue synergies have performed compared to our acquisition model and integration objectives. And I'll conclude with a few remarks about the strength of our balance sheet and our capital.

So let me talk about the fourth quarter. Our results in the fourth quarter were a great ending to what we think was a pretty remarkable year. The $2.8 billion we earned in the fourth quarter capped a record annual profit of $12.3 billion and the key to these results, as John says, and as it has always been at Wells Fargo, is revenue, which reached the record $22.7 billion in the fourth quarter, up 4% annualized linked quarter.

Revenue growth at the Company was solid across many of our diverse business lines, including wealth management, which had 21% revenue growth annualized linked quarter; our investment banking business up 25%; our insurance business, up 23%; and our auto business, up 14%. And you can see just how diverse that list of businesses is that had such strong revenue growth.

Our mortgage business once again contributed to revenue growth with $94 billion in originations, very similar to the strong third-quarter volume and solid results in our mortgage servicing business. Hedging results in the mortgage business were strong again this quarter and in fact, could remain relatively high as long as short-term rates remain low and the hedge performs effectively. Our actual hedge results in any quarter of course will reflect how much of the servicing asset we hedge and the effectiveness of the particular instruments we use to hedge.

Now we manage the mortgage business very holistically to achieve a target range of combined origination and servicing earnings within a reasonable range of interest rates. Our goal isn't to try to maximize profits each quarter, nor do we try to eliminate all interest rate risk. The mortgage business itself naturally provides some countercyclical balance to our overall results, but that is part of the value of our business model. At points in the business cycle less conducive to strong mortgage earnings such as when the economy is stronger and interest rates are higher, many of our other businesses contribute relatively more to our results than the mortgage business.

To give you an example, in the current rate environment, we've kept our powder dry in our mortgage-backed securities portfolio despite the significant growth we've had in long-duration core deposits all year on the possibility that today's relatively low mortgage rates return to historically more normal levels. So if anything, we are giving up current carry income in our investment portfolio right now.

Loan demand remained soft in the fourth quarter; although we did see some demand emerge in the consumer loan portfolio. Total loan outstandings were down $17 billion, less than the $22 billion decline we had in the third quarter. The fourth-quarter decline was due to a $4.7 billion reduction in what we call nonstrategic consumer loans, a $2.4 billion reduction in nonstrategic commercial real estate loans and $5.4 billion of net charge-offs. What I will call the core or continuing consumer loan portfolio was actually flat in the fourth quarter after declining every other quarter in 2009.

On the commercial side, many of our commercial customers remain very liquid and line utilization on our $258 billion of revolving commercial commitments dropped again to about 35% compared to typical utilization rates in the 40%s. Once loan demand picks up, we would expect to gain commercial lending marketshare because we already have the existing and extensive long-standing relationships with these customers.

Our commercial customers' liquidity also reflects typically their strong financial position, one of the reasons why we've experienced such low loss rates in our C&I portfolio.

Expenses in the fourth quarter were up $1.1 billion from the third quarter, including $860 million in merger-related and other incremental costs, including the previously disclosed $261 million expense provision for the auction rate security settlement. Apart from the auction rate security settlement, the increase in expenses in Q4 breaks down into four sources -- first an expected increase in integration expenses before the end of 2009; second, an increase in foreclosed asset expenses, which are likely to remain somewhat elevated for a while, although not necessarily at fourth-quarter levels; third, a typical seasonal increase in expenses before year-end; and fourth, real reinvestment back into the business.

We remain committed to tight expense discipline around everything we do while continuing to invest for the benefit of our customers for long-term revenue growth.

Now let me turn to credit quality. Last quarter, if you remember, we said we expected consumer credit losses to peak in the first half of 2010 and commercial losses to peak in the second half of 2010, assuming no further economic deterioration. Now based on the portfolio performance data we saw in the fourth quarter and assuming the same economic outlook, we are actually tracking somewhat better than those projections.

The signs of a positive turn in credit are most evident in the consumer portfolio and the C&I portfolios. Let me hit consumer first. On the consumer side, 30-day delinquency balances were down or stabilized in the fourth quarter in a number of portfolios, including personal credit management, credit card, auto, the liquidating home equity portfolio and small business direct.

In addition, the more recent vintages have shown greatly improved credit performance across most of our consumer portfolios and roll rates for the Pick-a-Pay portfolio improved in the quarter as they have for several quarters now as you can see in more detail on page 33 in our quarterly supplement.

Consumer nonaccrual loan growth slowed in the quarter. All of the consumer nonaccrual growth was in commercial -- I'm sorry -- in consumer real estate. Now the main reason for the growth in consumer real estate nonaccruals was the volume of modifications we have done for home owners and the foreclosure moratorium, both of which actually pushed out the time when loans can return to performing status where we dropped off nonaccrual through the foreclosure and disposition process.

Credit losses in almost all of the consumer portfolios declined or stabilized in the fourth quarter. Losses declined from the third quarter in the liquidating home equity portfolio, credit card, personal credit management, Wells Fargo Financial auto and Wells Fargo Financial credit card portfolios. We believe that if these trends continue, losses in about half of our 13 consumer lending businesses would have already peaked and it is possible -- emphasis on the word possible -- that consumer losses in total may also have already peaked. But of course another downturn in the economy, and particularly any further increase in unemployment, could stall a decline in losses or even reverse that trend.

On the commercial loan portfolio, we also saw some signs the credit quality may be improving. After growing $2.7 billion in the third quarter, commercial and commercial real estate nonaccruals were up only half as much in the fourth quarter and all of that, for the most part, is in commercial real estate with C&I nonaccruals actually dropping in the fourth quarter. So across all consumer and commercial loan types, virtually all of the nonaccrual increase in the fourth quarter for the Company was in real estate-secured portfolios.

C&I and CRE loss rates remained relatively low compared to the industry, reflecting our historically strong underwriting and the fact that we already took $7 billion of write-downs against Wachovia's commercial real estate loans through purchase accounting when we closed the [merger] a year ago. We remain comfortable with the mark we took on Wachovia's impaired CRE portfolio. Losses in the C&I and lease financing portfolios, representing about 60% of total commercial losses, were down on a combined basis in the fourth quarter.

Finally, due to improved levels of liquidity, we saw increased opportunities in the market to liquidate commercial and commercial real estate assets.

Let me very briefly highlight our Pick-a-Pay portfolio and CRE portfolio, both of which are outlined in more detail in our credit supplement and explain a little bit why we believe these particular portfolios should perform better than the industry. The $85 billion Pick-a-Pay portfolio continued to perform better than originally expected at the time of the merger, driven by 52,000 modifications we completed during 2009. Reducing the average monthly payment by 25% with interest rate reductions were more than 200 basis points on average and principal forgiveness was about $2.6 billion.

The redefault rate on our modified at loans has been roughly half of the redefault rates for the industry option arm modifications as reported by the OCC. For all mods that were completed in 2009 that are at least six months old, the 60-day redefault rate is about 14%. The improved outlook for this portfolio has also been driven by stabilization in certain markets where we have significant exposure such as California. The percentage of first-time delinquent loans has dropped for six consecutive months and the percent of first-time delinquent loans in our impaired portfolio during the fourth quarter was the lowest since the first quarter of 2008. The increase in nonaccruals in this portfolio was primarily due to foreclosure moratoriums and the HAMP processing and the growth was accounted for fully in our loss projections.

Losses in our commercial real estate portfolio increased $266 million from the third quarter and included $165 million in charge-offs from the purchasing of -- purchased credit impaired loans where the losses exceeded the specific nonaccretable difference established for the particular loans. We also released $93 million of nonaccretable difference that was associated with PCI loans that were paid in full or sold. Now these releases did not reduce charge-offs, but were recorded in net interest income or non-interest income.

During the past year, we have reunderwritten and put resolution plans in place for the majority of the nonstrategic CRE portfolio and reduced outstandings by $2.9 billion. While a significant portion of this portfolio is challenging, we remain comfortable with the impairment we took at the time of the merger. We expect to take write-downs and have positive resolutions in this portfolio from time to time.

Now let me shift to Wachovia. Having just completed the first year of the merger integration, I'd like to summarize the impact of the merger from a financial perspective on our financial results and let me start with credit.

When we closed the merger with Wachovia, we identified roughly $94 billion of purchase credit impaired loans and wrote them down by $37.2 billion through purchase accounting. That represented our best estimate of the losses in these portfolios over their remaining estimated lives. We refer to that of course as the nonaccretable difference.

During 2009, we refined our preliminary 12/31/08 purchase accounting write-downs to $41 billion and now there will be no further refinements after 2009. The 2009 true-up was largely due to increasing the pool of loans we subjected to impairment as of 12/31 2008, not to any credit deterioration in this portfolio. Throughout 2009, we charged off PCI loans to this nonaccretable difference and released nonaccretable difference related to loans paid in full, sold or reclassified to accretable yield for loans with improving cash flows and at year-end 2009, the remaining nonaccretable difference was $22.9 billion. So net net, we have charged off $17.7 billion of the original $41 billion.

Going forward, we will continue to record charge-offs of PCI loans against this $22.9 billion nonaccretable difference, which we remain comfortable that it reflects the remaining life of loan losses for the PCI loans.

Now any subsequent deterioration after 12/31/08 in the PCI portfolio was taken into account in our credit reserve builds during 2009. While there is some pooling capability in the consumer portfolios for changes in life of loan estimates against individual consumer loans, most purchase credit impaired commercial loans need to be accounted for on an individual basis. As a result, $333 million of the 2009 reserve build was for a additional PCI life of loan estimates, including $100 million in the fourth quarter.

When we wrote down the $94 billion of impaired loans by $41 billion, we effectively marked those assets to a market yield based on the expected cash flows in the PCI portfolio. The resultant PCI portfolio therefore is actually generating income at this yield and will continue to generate income every year until the PCI portfolio assets are disposed of.

In 2009, we recorded $2.6 billion of yield income on this portfolio, including $610 million in the fourth quarter. Now that is a yield, if you do the math, of roughly 5% on the entire portfolio. At year-end 2009, the accretable balance was $14.6 billion, reflecting income we will record over the remaining life of these PCI loans.

Now as the portfolio ages, two factors can add to the yield and therefore to accrued income over time. First, our estimates of the life of loan losses may go down in some portfolios. In this case, we record the improvement in income, but only over the remaining life of the loans. Until we have a very high degree of confidence that the revised improvement is highly probable, we need to be judicious in terms of recording any improvement into income and as I said, in any event, if we do, it's recorded over the life of the loan.

Of the increase in accretable yield from the $10.4 billion at the beginning of 2009 to $14.6 billion at year-end 2009, we recorded only $441 million related to improved life of loan loss estimates on the PCI portfolio and again, that $441 million will be recorded over time into income.

As we gain confidence in any improved estimates from this point forward, this could represent a material source of income over time in the future, particularly in portfolios like the PCI Pick-a-Pay portfolio where we are beginning to see improvement, but so far the amount added to income from this particular factor has been negligible.

The second and so far larger factor relates to improvements in cash flow projections primarily relating to loan modifications. As we modify loans that have already been written down through purchase accounting, we improved the future cash flows on the modified loans even after taking into account potential redefaults.

The bulk of the increase in the accretable yield from $10.4 billion to $14.6 billion at the end of 2009 represents additional income that we have not yet recorded, but expect to record over time due to our improved payment expectations on our successfully modified PCI loans.

Let me turn to expenses on the merger side. Merger expenses and cost saves. We remain on track to achieve the $5 billion of annual run rate savings from the consolidation that we estimated at the time of the merger. We achieved approximately $2.9 billion of cost saves in 2009 and we expect to achieve the remaining integration saves when integration is completed by year-end 2011.

We had originally estimated that we would spend $7.9 billion in integration costs cumulatively over the three years necessary to achieve these savings, but we now estimate we won't need to spend more than $5 billion and that is because we are seeing lower severance and retention costs, lower property disposition costs and lower contract or amender expenses than we originally thought.

In 2009, we spent a total of $2.1 billion on integration, $1.2 billion of which went through goodwill under purchase accounting and $895 million was expense to earnings. In the fourth quarter, $654 million was charged to goodwill and $450 million was expensed, up from $200 million in the third quarter, primarily because of an expected increase in business and systems integration projects and severance costs related to team member displacements.

The severance cost expense in the fourth quarter related to exit plans for legacy Wells Fargo team members or as severance costs for legacy Wachovia team members under purchase accounting was charged to goodwill throughout 2009. Starting in 2010, all future integration costs will be expensed and we expect the merger savings we realize in 2010 to largely offset the 2010 estimated merger integration expenses.

As we have spent this money so far this past year, we accomplished a great deal of business and system integration. We completed the re-branding in our brokerage capital markets, mortgage and insurance businesses. We successfully converted our first banking state, Colorado, and our five remaining overlap states will be converted in 2010.

In addition, we worked on integrating technology platforms throughout our banking stores that laid the groundwork for the systems conversions that will take place over the next two years. Replaced over 500 Wachovia ATMs and envelope-free ATMs throughout our banking states. And our ATM network, which has been available to both Wells Fargo and Wachovia customers throughout the year, processed over 5 million cross-company transactions in 2009.

The average legacy Wells Fargo retail banking store serves roughly 20% more households than the average Wachovia store, but has 70% more platform bankers serving customers. During 2009, we hired and shifted more than 1250 additional platform bankers FTEs to serve customers in legacy Wachovia stores and we expect those will further align the Wachovia stores to the banking model used by Wells Fargo and help drive cross-sell. We plan to continue to add bankers in 2010.

When we priced the Wachovia merger, we did not assume any revenue synergies, but we have already begun to realize tremendous synergies across our businesses. Let me give you a couple of examples. Our mortgage marketshare is usually higher in states where we have a banking presence and we have already realized marketshare gains in the Wachovia banking states.

For the merger a year ago, we ranked number one in eight Wachovia banking states where Wells Fargo did not have banking stores and we currently rank number one in a total of 10 Wachovia banking states and number two or number three in the remaining banking states.

Our international group is one of the largest providers of foreign exchange services, transacting more than $4 trillion in notional trade volume each year. Prior to the merger, Wells Fargo and Wachovia were both big in international banking, but in combination, the Company has a broader set of products and services to offer more customers with offices in more than 35 overseas locations and serving customers in more than 130 countries. We are now the third largest trade processor for other banks that do business overseas, processing more than 65,000 payments a day and $36 trillion a year.

Another example of investment banking and sales and trading activities, which had strong revenue growth throughout 2009, is we combined Wachovia's origination and distribution with the client relationships both banks had resulting in marketshare gains from Wells Fargo. We now rank number four in loan syndications and number six in total equity.

Additionally, we were book runner or lead manager in over 50% of the deals we participated in during 2009. As we continue serving the capital raising and advisory needs of our middle-market, large corporate and municipal customers, along with the product needs of our institutional and retail investing customers, we expect to increase our share of the customer flow portion of the investment banking business.

We have actively reduced the risk associated with Wachovia's highest risk loans and securities portfolios. For example, since year-end 2008, through paydowns, charge-offs and sales, we have reduced the size of our nonstrategic consumer loans, including Pick-a-Pay, indirect home equity, indirect auto and in total, by almost $19 billion or 15%. We reduced the size of these loans by $4.7 billion in just the fourth quarter and we would expect to continue to see the size of this portfolio shrink in the future. In addition, we reduced the size of the nonstrategic commercial real estate portfolio by $2.9 billion in 2009.

On the other side of the balance sheet, Wachovia had $136 billion of high-rate CDs on their balance sheet at the end of last year, that is the end of 2008. In 2009, $109 billion of those matured, including $14 billion in the fourth quarter. 57% of these deposits were retained in lower cost checking, savings and CDs. $8 billion of Wachovia's high-rate CDs, largely the balance of the original amount, will mature in 2010.

We've had great success growing deposits across the Company this year with average checking and savings account balances increasing 20% annualized linked quarter.

Let me conclude with a few remarks about our strong balance sheet and capital position. With loans down $82 billion and core deposits up $35 billion this past year, we are more liquid than we have ever been and have significant capacity to extend credit without having to increase leverage because we already have the liquidity on the Company's balance sheet.

Our mix of deposits has improved with lower-rate checking and savings deposits now accounting for 87% of total core deposits, up from 76% at year-end 2008. Since we hardly issued any term debt under the FDIC guaranteed debt programs last year, unlike many of our large peers, and since we had previously lengthened our debt maturities, we only have a about $20 billion of holding company debt maturing in any of the next three years. That is roughly half the maturities per year of our three largest peer banks, leaving us in a much more flexible financing position.

We also have significant capacity to add to our securities portfolio, as I mentioned before, should long-term yields increase. Our approach in securities has always been to keep our long-duration MBS portfolio roughly in line with our large and growing base of longer duration core deposits and to invest when long-term yields are high, not when the carry trade looks good.

In effect, we are currently giving up current income to preserve the flexibility to add to the portfolio at higher rates for even more income going forward. Now of course should interest rates fall, the unrealized gain in our bond portfolio, already nearly $5 billion at today's interest rates and spreads, should go up and of course in that particular interest rate environment, the mortgage business would likely have even better economics.

We built credit reserves by $3.5 billion in 2009, including $500 million in the fourth quarter. The allowance for credit losses now totals $25 billion, six times what it was at the start of the credit crisis and reaching 3.2% of loans. While 3.2% is below some of our large peers, there is a reason for that. We believe we have a better underwritten loan portfolio and in addition to the reported reserves, as you know, we also provided $40.9 billion through purchase accounting for the life of loan losses in our purchase credit impaired portfolio, of which $22.9 billion remains.

With respect to capital, legacy Wells Fargo always maintained industry-leading capital ratios and we also maintained a capital structure largely independent of hybrids and structured capital, unlike many of our peers. With our strong internal capital generation and the actions we have taken to issue common equity, our capital ratios are now higher than they were prior to the Wachovia acquisition, even after repaying TARP in full and buying Pru's share of the retail securities brokerage business.

So we are ending 2009 with a customer base and geographic reach at least double what it was a year ago prior to the merger with all of the financial resources in place to properly serve that larger base of customers for future revenue, earnings and capital generation. And with that, I would like to now open up the call for your questions.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Matt O'Connor.

MATT O'CONNOR, ANALYST, UBS: Good morning. First question is on the mortgage business and I guess I always think about two pieces -- the core business, which seems to be doing real well and the pipeline strong heading into 1Q, and then the hedging part of it. And if I recall, I think you basically said, as long as the yield curve stays steep and you keep the current hedge on, we can expect continued hedge gains. And I guess I just wanted to circle back on that, if we can expect additional gains going forward?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, first of all, I would like to say, as I mentioned before, we do manage this business very holistically. So separating the parts is not necessarily the best way of looking at the business in terms of how we manage the hedge. As I said, if short-term rates remain low and you can make up your own -- have your own forecast about that, that does contribute to the run rate earnings on the hedge.

And finally, this is a very dynamic process. We adjust the hedge daily, as you would expect. This is a very big portfolio and should our views on rates change and our estimates of what rate changes may do to both sides of the business change, we could very well decide the amount that we hedge. A complicated answer, but this is very dynamic. Short-term rates should remain low for a while. Net net, that should be a plus to the profitability of the business.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay. And then separately, with you acquiring the remaining stake of the Prudential joint venture, that earnings stream, I assume, kicks in this quarter?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, that is correct, Matt.

HOWARD ATKINS: So we have 100% of the earnings of the business now.

MATT O'CONNOR: And remind us what the annual pickup in earnings will be from that?

HOWARD ATKINS: We haven't disclosed that amount; it will be what it will be.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay.

JOHN STUMPF: But their interest was about 23% of the business. And all of the earnings, plus all the cross-sell and so forth accrues to our shareholder.

MATT O'CONNOR: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions) Nancy Bush.

NANCY BUSH, ANALYST, NAB: Quick question here on capital markets. Given the resurgence of the Glass-Steagall arguments, could you just speak to the breadth of your capital markets operations here and if indeed you ever had to split them off, would it be a big loss?

JOHN STUMPF: Good morning, Nancy, this is John. With the merger of Wachovia, we are a much larger commercial bank and one of the great assets we got as part of the merger was a terrific team of folks from Wachovia in an investment banking business. I view this as additional product, a way for us to add service to those customers who we're already doing business with.

Some of the proposals that I have seen, and who knows what is going to happen, about going back to the future or splitting something off or requiring additional capital tends to be for those riskier parts of the investment banking business, proprietary kinds of lending, structured activity. I have not heard much about splitting the baby around the so-called flow business, which we think is where we can add value to our customers. But who knows what is going to happen, but I don't -- whatever happens, it surely would have a smaller impact on this Company than our peer group.

NANCY BUSH: Can you just remind us what parts of the capital market businesses basically have been downsized or shut down since you took them over from Wachovia?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, they had activities that were -- did not, for the most part, start with customers and relationships and most of the things that we kept and are actually growing and developing start with the customer. And it is customer-focused. If it didn't have that, didn't start with the customer, we've tended to not grow that or actually shrink that or get out of some of those businesses.

NANCY BUSH: Okay. And just as a final question. Could you just update us, John? We have seen all the numbers for the Wachovia integration. But what has actually started to happen at the Wachovia branch level as far as cross-selling products, etc., because, here in New Jersey, it is sort of not really visible yet.

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, it will be coming to New Jersey. Everyday, we get one day closer to that. As I think Howard mentioned, and I think you know, this process will likely take us three years give or take. The first year, we spent a lot of time on the plumbing and wiring, getting teams in place and we did do one overlapping market. Those are the ones you need to do first because you have Wachovia and Wells customers most doing retail business in the same markets and we are going to finish the rest of the overlapping early or during this year. And we will get to some of the eastern markets later this year and then you will see the big push from a signage perspective in the East later this year and next year.

But even before that, we have -- we are increasing the number of bankers in the stores, we are learning from each other about great sales and great service. But I think the noticeable changes will come to New Jersey -- you will see more of that at the time of the actual changeover.

NANCY BUSH: And there is no pressure at this point to, given the competitive nature of the business, to accelerate the cross-selling timeframe, etc.?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, actually, Nancy, I looked at our numbers for the fourth quarter and I am more than pleasantly surprised, I am thrilled about how the quality of our -- of the folks on the East, if you will, legacy Wachovia, at the proficiency of their cross-sell and their selling. They are coming from a lower sales base largely because they have not enough bankers in their stores.

But if you take sales per banker, I am thrilled with what we are seeing. And we have more opportunity there because the holding, the product holdings by those retail households is less than what it is on the Wells side, so there is huge opportunity. And that is only one part of the business. On the middle market and the wholesale side, there is lots of terrific things happening on the East, but I know people tend to focus, when they think about it, on the retail side.

NANCY BUSH: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck.

BETSY GRASECK, ANALYST, MORGAN STANLEY: Good morning. A couple of questions. One is on capital and obviously you did raise capital, got out of TARP last quarter. Could you just give us a sense as to how much credit you got, you think you got from the regulators in the losses that you had booked upfront with the WB transaction? In other words, did you get credit for those losses in the calculation in your opinion?

JOHN STUMPF: I would say it this way, Betsy. We know as we look at our own balance sheet and capital that typically we have less risk than many of our large peer banks. And one of the areas we have less risk is because we've already taken the hit on the PCI portfolio when we did the merger. That concept does form the basis of how we talk to the world, including regulators, about our Company and how much capital we need as an organization.

So I can't tell you whether any specific numerical amount was taken into account, but the fact that we have so derisked or taken so much risk out of the Wachovia portfolio, certainly in our view, and we believe in the people we talk to, it does form part of the basis of how much capital is adequate for this Company.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then as you outlined at the margin, credit is getting less bad because of some better than initially expected outcomes in some of the portfolios, right, that you bought from WB. Could you give us a sense as to how you are thinking about capital generation and reallocation? I mean what kind of trigger points do you need to see to either reinvest more aggressively or to distribute capital to shareholders?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I would -- Betsy, I would say it this way. This Company has had a long history of growing capital organically, which was always the best way. And as we look at capital -- the first call on capital in my mind is to grow the business and fortify the balance sheet. And then we surely want to distribute, quote unquote, excess capital to our stockholders; dividends is one way to do that. One of the toughest decisions we had to make last year was cutting our dividend. We surely want to get back to a more appropriate dividend level as soon as practical. Of course that is a decision that is with the Board and I'm sure they are going to want to see or at least consider and take in their consideration a turn in the economy or some positive signs and so forth.

But as you look at capital, as Howard mentioned, I think you need to look at the risk of the organization. We have -- we are not in a lot of the risk businesses, we don't have a big trading account, and so forth. This is a community-oriented, customer-focused kind of business that we do. And also we are not naÃ¯e to what other levels of capital are around the world, frankly. So we'll just see how things go. But we are comfortable with our capital position and we are surely comfortable with the way we are growing capital today.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, I mean obviously you have got some proposals out from Basel at the end of the year. How much -- have you taken a look at those and is there anything that you would do differently with the business model based on what is being proposed?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, that is very preliminary --

JOHN STUMPF: That's 2012 and --

HOWARD ATKINS: Obviously we take a look at all this stuff. But it would be highly speculative to even comment on it.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. And then just lastly on the bank tax that's been suggested. Is this something that you would just pass through to shareholders or do you think that there is any way you could potentially offset some of this?

JOHN STUMPF: Let me answer it this way. First of all, we were invited into TARP, we have replayed our TARP, it has been a very good return to the Treasury and the taxpayer. In addition to that, we have made more loans and we have not only paid it back, we have also honored the spirit of the investment to make loans to help get the economy going. And as I talk with our shareholders, other people who are interested in our Company -- team members, customers, our stakeholders -- they are talking to me about jobs. And I don't understand how additional taxes or a fee disguised as a tax at this time helps with growing jobs.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay, thank you.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Paul Miller.

PAUL MILLER, ANALYST, FRIEDMAN, BILLINGS, RAMSEY: Yes, thank you very much. We have seen the housing market starting to stabilize here and we do know there is a lot of government programs, the government buying mortgage-backed securities in the FHA program, which you saw today that they are going to up some of the down payments and fees on lower FICO scores. How do you think -- how much -- we know the government is supporting the housing market, but how stable do you think it really is? And how much pullback can the government do to keep this market where it is today?

JOHN STUMPF: Paul, I don't know. All I know is that all rates have benefited consumers as we've helped them last year refinance or modify 1.5 million homeowners. And I think your guess is probably as good as mine as what the government might or might not do with respect to supporting housing, especially on the long end by buying mortgages.

Customers are still buying homes, they're still refinancing, they have needs, we're serving them and we'll serve them whether rates are a little higher, a little lower, whether the government is a little more involved or less involved, it is fairly dynamic right now.

BOB STRICKLAND: Operator, any other questions? If not perhaps we'll just conclude the call.

OPERATOR: (Operator Instructions). Andrew Marquardt.

ANDREW MARQUARDT, ANALYST, FOX-PITT COCHRAN CARONIA: Can you guys go back to your credit quality comments talking about 2010 expecting to see peak credit losses with consumer first in the first half and then commercial in the back half? Can you elaborate a little bit about that as well as maybe give some color in terms of will provision costs correlate with those peakings or should we also expect some reserve build to continue?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, as we said last quarter, consumer early in the year, commercial later in the year. I guess the only slight nuance we'd say is that where we see things peaking a little bit later rather than a little bit earlier, it would be more in the real estate secured portfolios, consumer and commercial rather than the other portfolios. The C&I portfolio, for example, is actually in very good shape right now. As I indicated, non-accruals are down and losses are remaining pretty low. And we're seeing peaking already in a number of the other consumer portfolios.

Reserve build is a tougher question to answer. Obviously we don't provide guidance around that. Obviously we think that the allowance that we had at the end of the year was adequate for the portfolio. But again, this is dynamic; a lot is going to depend on which particular quarter things peak, what the trajectory is after the peak on the way down, and so on and so forth. We feel comfortable with the allowance; we'll have to see each quarter as we go forward.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Is it fair to assume that on the commercial side as NPAs continue to rise or problem assets internally rated downgraded that reserve build really should continue?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, if you -- if the point is that commercial real estate peaks a little later and consumer a little earlier, obviously on the commercial side, that in isolation keeps some pressure on reserving. On the other side, the consumer goes the other way. So it really is going to depend on how each of these portfolios plays out quarter-by-quarter going forward.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Okay, thanks. And then my second to the last question was on the accretable yield balance.

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: I think it is now $14.6 billion. You mentioned that's going to be realized over the remaining life of the loans. Can you give a sense of how long that might be and if we should really expect -- I think you said it was -- the quarterly impact this quarter was $610 million. Is that what we should think about as a run rate or how do we think about that playing out? Thanks.

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, again, most of the -- how do I want to say this? Most of the $610 million in the quarter or the $2 billion plus that we recorded in 2009 is in fact the yield on that portfolio. So most of that does carry forward for a period of time. And obviously the portfolio matures, things get (inaudible) in the portfolio and we can add to that as we continue to improve, if we continue to improve our estimates of the future losses and continue to modify loans.

So a fair chunk of that is run rate in nature given the qualifications I just gave you. And as to the remaining life, as you would expect, Andrew, there are multiple portfolios in the total PCI portfolio, which mature over a variety of timeframes. Of course the big piece of that is the Pick-a-Pay portfolio and that has a relatively longer duration.

ANDREW MARQUARDT: Thank you.

OPERATOR: Ron Mandel.

RON MANDEL, ANALYST, GIC: Hi, yes, I --

JOHN STUMPF: Ron, we can't hear you.

OPERATOR: Betsy Graseck.

BETSY GRASECK: Hey, just a follow-up question on rates. I just wanted to understand, Howard, how you are thinking about the impact of the Fed exit on the fixed-income market and how you are planning on managing the balance sheet for that?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, that is a good question, Betsy, and the Fed obviously is active in buying MBSes. And despite the fact that the yield curve is as positively sloped as it is right now, their active purchases is a factor that is, in some senses, artificially keeping long MBS yields lower than they might otherwise be. At some point presumably, they will either gradually or more quickly reverse course and that could lead to an increase in mortgage interest rates. And as I mentioned a couple of times in my remarks, in possible preparation for that, we have been keeping our powder dry, in effect underinvesting this large base of core deposits that we have for the possibility that that reverses course.

BETSY GRASECK: So you might get some OCI hit near term, but dry powder leads you to a better outlook for earnings, is that the way to think about it?

HOWARD ATKINS: Yes, again, while the mortgage business is showing good results right now, in effect, on the portfolio side, the investment portfolio, we, in effect, are giving up some current income. We don't believe in the carry trade and we do want to preserve some powder in case rates do go up and we'll have the powder at that point, we will invest the powder at that point to offset some -- whatever is going on in the mortgage business.

JOHN STUMPF: Betsy, I see this as the classic short-term view of the business and long-term view of the business. 400 basis points or something like that, which you make in the carry trade today is very attractive. But we think it is the wrong decision long term because we think the bias is for higher rates, not for lower rates and we are willing to wait for that to happen. We think that is the better trade.

HOWARD ATKINS: -- stated but rather than point, we are effectively giving up 400 basis points today for possibly a year or so, maybe plus or minus, to avoid the potential risk of a larger number of basis points for 30 years. So the last thing we want to do is get stuck with --

JOHN STUMPF: Correct --

HOWARD ATKINS: -- securities at these low levels of interest rates.

JOHN STUMPF: Because I think when rates move, they are probably going to move at some speed and I don't think it's going to be maybe a quarter. It could be more than that and it could happen relatively quickly.

HOWARD ATKINS: Also, Betsy, this is the same thing that we did back in 2002, 2003 when interest rates were also at cyclical low points just before they went up a lot. What we are doing now is not very different from the way the Company has always managed itself.

BETSY GRASECK: Okay. That was good color. Thanks.

OPERATOR: John McDonald.

JOHN MCDONALD, ANALYST, SANFORD BERNSTEIN: A question on the mortgage business. Was wondering how much the expense base of your mortgage business is variable and gives you flexibility to manage a slowdown in originations?

HOWARD ATKINS: I don't have a precise ratio for you, John, but, as you know, we manage the mortgage business with a reasonably high content of variable expense and we do that by design. The mortgage -- the people who manage our mortgage business have been in this business for the last five cycles, 20 years plus. And we know that there is a cycle to the mortgage business and as a result, we try to keep the expense base of the business as variable as we can keep it. And as you know, the way we have done that in the past is when we start seeing applications rise quickly, typically we are adding part-timers and peak timers rather than full-time staff and that gives us the ability to move the other way if production slows down.

JOHN STUMPF: And, John, you know all of the producers are on commissions, so that is all variable.

JOHN MCDONALD: Right, right. Okay and again, on the servicing side, don't need a number, but just a feel for things. Are the servicing margins getting hit now by the high cost of servicing modifications, collections? Is that a meaningful impact on your servicing margins at this point?

HOWARD ATKINS: You know, it is an expense, John; I wouldn't call it necessarily meaningful. What is meaningful is we have devoted significant resources to the modification process. We have 15,000 people now dedicated to doing that. That is the right thing to do for the customer if we want to keep the customer in the home and we want to work through all of this. And I would also say finally we factor -- any of the costs that we incur are in fact factored into our MSR.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just on NII, just your high-level thoughts on growth or shrinkage in the balance sheet. Given the challenge of finding loan demand, your cautious stance about securities and then the runoff portfolio, is that a big challenge to find growth in the balance sheet as you look out over the next year or two?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, John, we have been dealing with that for some time now. And you'd be looking at 2009, we've had a lot of challenges and we have -- we are hiring more people, there are more feet in the street, we were doing a double look on loans that we turned down to make sure that we are turning them down for the right reason. And I think that will be a challenge for the industry in 2010 until the economy turns around.

Now with respect to Wells uniquely, our business model, the fact we have 80 some different horses pulling the coach and that we have such great balance between where revenue comes from, half from non-interest income, the other half from net interest income and the geographic diversity we have and some of the new businesses that we are in that we have that we are still suboptimized we can grow. But I am not saying this is going to be easy. But we sure like -- we believe we can outperform on a relative basis in that area.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And then just one follow-up on that. Howard, could you just give us a couple cents of the puts and takes on the net interest margin, the factors that will positive and negative that kind of influence the outlook on margin as we look ahead?

HOWARD ATKINS: Well, there are lots of puts and takes, including growth on the left-hand side of the balance sheet and growth on the right-hand side of the balance sheet. Interesting phenomenon in the fourth quarter, we did tick down a couple of BPS in the margin, but interestingly that, in effect, was because we had such good deposit growth in the quarter in combination with the loans that were coming off.

So the -- because of the large deposit growth, the size of the asset base actually remained relatively constant even as loans were declining and that actually diluted the margin a little bit. So that is just one factor.

So I think -- I guess my two important points on the margin would be, one, we should continue to have a higher margin than the other big banks in the country because we have such an incredible deposit base. As I mentioned, 87% of our deposits now in low-cost checking and savings. And that is growing rather than shrinking. So that is a good factor.

And secondly, as I said before, lots of factors going up and down. If loan demand reemerges, we may see a decline in the margin, but that will be good for income. So our focus here is really on net interest income and not the margin per se.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay. And again, the reason deposit growth hurt in the fourth quarter is just that you invested it in low-yielding liquid stuff?

HOWARD ATKINS: In effect, not by design, but basically the combination of loans coming down a little bit. Normally if lines come down and your deposits are shrinking, you may not actually get a diminution in the margin. But if your loans are coming down and your deposits are growing, the incremental asset -- your assets are not shrinking even though your loan income is going down. So you are getting a little bit of a diminution in the margin as a result.

JOHN MCDONALD: Okay, got it. Thanks.

OPERATOR: Joe Morford.

JOE MORFORD, RBC CAPITAL MARKETS: Thanks, good morning, John, Howard. A couple things. First, just following up on Nancy's question. Given the three-year timeframe you talked about for the integration, when can we expect to see the gap narrow between the two companies' retail household cross-sell ratios? And separately, maybe you could talk a bit more about some of the cross-sell progress on the wholesale side?

JOHN STUMPF: Well, I think we mentioned that the -- in our release -- that the difference on the legacy Wells side, it is 5.95 and on the Wachovia side, it is 4.70 in that range. So there is a delta. It doesn't sound like a lot, but you multiply that times 11, 12 million households, it is a lot of products.

I can't give you an exact timeframe as to when that will close, but the way you close it is by adding more people to the Wachovia stores and frankly sharing ideas and working together as one team. So that will close.

I think the more interesting thing is, on the Wells side, we are not stopping. In fact, our cross-sell is actually accelerating. We went from 5.73 to 5.95 on the retail side. We grew by almost a quarter of a product per household over the whole fleet in one year, which is tremendous. And that is because of the great service that we are providing in the stores.

On the commercial side, if you look at the legacy Wachovia business in the middle market, it is all -- that business we like a lot and we are making good progress there. In fact, the wholesale side happens to be the cross-sell champions in the Company. So we have a new business model on the East in place this quarter; we are seeing good progress. We are working together with each other. So of all the things I worry about, that is about the last one. There is great -- there are cards and letters going back and forth between the Company and each other of how to improve in this area and we are winning every day.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks. At this point, do you have much interest in pursuing smaller FDIC-assisted transactions to fill in your franchise? And if so, what markets are of the highest priority or interest to you?

JOHN STUMPF: Yes, the highest priority I have right now is do Wachovia really, really well. I never say never to anything. But you have seen we have done nothing this past year on the banking side. And frankly when we put -- when we get this all done, we will have, I believe, the best franchise with more stores in the biggest economy in the world not to be replicated. It is just that unique. Are there a couple of places that we would like something more? Sure. But I view those as the top 20 MSAs in the country, we are number one in 10 of those. So we have dominant share. And I will worry about that some time later. But all hands are on deck getting Wachovia done really, really well.

JOE MORFORD: Okay, thanks, John.

JOHN STUMPF: We are going to be -- is there --

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Q&A portion of today's conference call. I will now turn the call back over to management for closing remarks.

JOHN STUMPF: I want to thank everybody for joining us today. I appreciate your interest in our Company. And we will see you 90 days from now. Thank you much.

HOWARD ATKINS: Thank you, everyone.

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings conference call. You may now disconnect.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i8150104 : Sales Financing | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | gdemog : Demographics | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1102 : Money Supply | c151 : Earnings | c174 : Corporate Credit Ratings | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c315 : Conferences/Exhibitions | csched : Announcements of News Conferences/Calls | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c17 : Funding/Capital | c18 : Ownership Changes | c31 : Marketing | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | usnj : New Jersey | namz : North America | use : Northeast U.S.
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020100203e61k00106
  


 HD
 Q3  2009 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,594 words
   PD
21 October 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland, thank you for participating in the Wells Fargo third-quarter 2009 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we discuss our third-quarter results we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.

   TD
In this call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of our future financial results and condition, including statements about future non-accruals, loss content and cash flows from the legacy Wachovia impaired -- non-impaired loan portfolios, expected credit losses and credit performance generally and in specific loan portfolios, the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses, future levels of nonperforming assets, future levels of capital, the timing and amount of expected merger one-time expenses, cost savings and business and revenue synergies related to the Wachovia merger and other initiatives, and our ability to generate revenue growth and earnings.

These forward-looking statements are based on our expectations and they are not guarantees of future performance. They speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Actual results may differ materially from expectations due to a number of factors, including our ability to successfully integrate Wachovia and realize the expected cost savings and benefits from the merger.

There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices and unemployment do not stabilize or improve. For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the Form 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our third-quarter results, and our first- and second-quarter 10-Qs and our 2008 annual report on Form 10-K, each available on the SEC's website at SEC.gov.

In this call we will also discuss our Tier 1 common equity and related capital ratios, as well as pre-tax, pre-provision profit. For more information about these measures refer to our third-quarter earnings press release which is accessible on our website, WellsFargo.com, by clicking on "About Us", then "Investor Relations", then "Quarterly Earnings". We've also posted on our website a third-quarter 2009 supplement that provides additional information on our loan portfolios and businesses.

I will now turn the call over to CFO, Howard Atkins.

HOWARD ATKINS, SVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. I have a lot of ground to cover in my comments, so I want to give you up front the three key author's messages about our third quarter.

First, we continued to generate earnings and capital at a record rate in the third quarter despite cyclically elevated credit costs. The main reason is that our diversified business model continued to generate very strong revenue as it has in other environments. Quarterly revenue net of expenses was once again this quarter more than double our quarterly net charge-offs, a positive margin of $5.7 billion. We have increased shareholders' equity by $23 billion since the merger and have exceeded the SCAP requirement by a wide margin.

Second, Wachovia is already additive to Wells Fargo's earnings and capital growth -- earlier and better than originally anticipated. Revenue synergies have been significant, expense savings from the consolidation are on track for $5 billion annually by the end of 2011 and we now expect substantially lower merger and integration costs. Credit costs in the aggregate are in line with our expectations at the time of the merger with cumulative Pick-a-Pay losses now expected to be less than originally projected.

And third, we are seeing signs of stability in our credit portfolio and, based on our current economic outlook, we expect credit losses to peak in 2010 with consumer losses potentially peaking in the first half of the year and gradually declining as the year progresses. We have substantially less exposure to credit cards than our peers with large national credit card portfolios. Where we do have large exposure, in commercial and commercial real estate, we are comfortable with how the legacy Wells Fargo portfolios were underwritten and are performing and we've previously written down the Wachovia portfolios at the close of that acquisition late last year.

Now let me elaborate on these three points. First, Wells Fargo once again achieved record earnings in the third quarter despite elevated credit costs. Our $3.2 billion net income was our third record quarter in a row; we've earned more than $3 billion in each quarter so far in 2009; our year-to-date earnings in 2009 were a record $9.5 billion, up 75% from a year ago, indicating our Company's ability to absorb higher credit costs over the cycle; and after deducting preferred and common dividends, cumulative retained earnings so far this year were $6.9 billion, the main reason we are generating capital internally at a very fast rate.

In combination with other internally generated sources of capital and with two of the largest non-IPO offerings of common stock in history, we have more than doubled the Company's equity since before the merger late last year.

Now there are three main reasons our earnings have been so consistently strong. The first relates to our business model, the second relates to the benefits we are already seeing from the Wachovia consolidation, and the third relates to how we manage credit.

The key driver of our earnings is revenue. Our third-quarter revenue was $22.5 billion, equal to the record revenue we generated in the second quarter, and our pretax pre-provision profit, which is total revenue less non-interest expense, was $10.8 billion, a record for the Company.

Wells Fargo's revenue was about 92% of the average revenue of the other largest banks in the United States even though we are only about 60% of their size based on average assets. In fact, our revenue per dollar of assets, at 7.2% before expenses and 3.4% after expenses, is significantly and consistently greater than any of the other three largest US banks. In the third quarter we produced pre-tax pre-provision profit that once again was more than double our quarterly credit costs.

At a time when many US companies are struggling for sales, Wells Fargo had record sales in the third quarter. This is because we are gaining new customers, increasing the number of products sold to existing customers and increasing market share. Core product sales, for example, at legacy Wells Fargo regional bank were $6.84 million in the quarter, a record and up 10% from last year on a comparable basis. Retail bank cross-sell was 5.9 products per household, a record, and wholesale cross-sell was 6.4 products.

The Wells Fargo revenue machine is a direct consequence of the breadth and depth of our diversified business model and our singular focus on earning all of our customers' financial business. That focus has generated strong and consistent revenue growth over the last 20 years. In any given period some of our businesses are affected differently by the economy or interest rates and some, like insurance, are seasonal, but in combination they tend to produce exceptional revenue.

While mortgage originations and servicing revenue remained high in the third quarter, total mortgage banking noninterest income represented less than 15% of consolidated company third-quarter revenue, reflecting the breadth and depth of the Company's business model. In the third quarter we had linked-quarter double-digit annualized revenue growth in asset management, auto lending, consumer finance, debit cards, retirement services, SBA lending and wealth management.

Let me highlight some of the key business drivers of our revenue and earnings growth in the third quarter. We've had great success growing deposits and accounts throughout the credit crisis. Combined average checking and savings deposits increased 11% annualized from the second quarter and are up 16% annualized since the first quarter -- in part due to the conversion of higher rate CDs into lower rate liquid deposits. Checking and savings accounts now represent 83% of total core deposits.

Deposit and account growth has been strong across our customer segments. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 5.2% overall and a net 6.4% at legacy Wells Fargo from the prior year. We continued to experience strong consumer checking account growth in California, still our largest deposit state, with a net 9% increase in consumer checking accounts. Core deposits in our Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement business grew 10% annualized and wholesale core deposits grew 25% annualized.

We continued to supply credits to US consumers and businesses with over $547 billion of new credit extended to customers through the third quarter this year. Wells Fargo has extended more credit than any other bank in the United States this year through August 2009 including mortgage securities purchased.

Because non-mortgage loan demand has been soft so far this year, and since we originate conforming mortgages for sale, our significant credit extended has not translated into an increase in assets on the balance sheet, but it has boosted loan-related fee income. Mortgage origination fees of $1.13 billion were up $849 million from a year ago and charges and fees on loans were $453 million, up 70% from last year and up 12% annualized from the second quarter.

In wholesale banking we continued to add new customers and do more business with existing customers. In a slower economic cycle commercial loan demand is naturally weaker, but when the economy recovers and loan demand resumes we will benefit from these additional customer relationships and the deeper relationships we have with our current customers.

Trust and investment fees were up 15% annualized linked-quarter including strong growth in managed account fees, consistent with market trends, and modest growth in brokerage transaction revenue overcoming typical seasonality. Client assets in our Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement business continued their year-long growth reaching $1.2 trillion this quarter and up 8% from the second quarter. Retirement plan assets increased 9% to $271 billion and IRA assets also rose 9% to $231 billion.

Wells Fargo is now the third-largest US wealth manager based on client assets and the second largest based on number of financial advisors. The average productivity of our 21,500 registered financial reps has increased each quarter this year with new financial advisors more productive on average than displaced advisors. This large productive group of financial advisors across the United States, branded as Wells Fargo Advisors, is quickly becoming an important new distribution channel for banking products since the 21,500 advisors nationally have access to and are already selling Wells Fargo's suite of deposits, trust and other banking products.

Card fees grew 10% annualized from the second quarter. Unlike many of our peers our credit card business remains profitable despite elevated credit losses which actually were down slightly from the second quarter. Consumer spending continued to be dampened by the economy with fewer big-ticket purchases in the third quarter resulting in a decline in average transaction size on both debit and credit cards.

At the same time, consumers are increasingly using their debit cards for everyday items such as gas and grocery purchases which is helping to increase overall card volume. Linked-quarter purchase volume on cards was up 22% with the majority of the growth from legacy Wells Fargo debit cards, increased volume from Wachovia debit and credit cards and Wells Fargo Financial.

Global remittance service is another consumer payments business that continued to generate strong household and volume growth. Transaction volumes were up 22% year-to-date while dollar volume growth increased 5% over the same period. With the Wachovia merger our presence in the primary US geographies that send remittance payments to Latin America has increased from 54% to 88%. This business is also benefiting from a new online option that supplements the current store and phone bank distribution channels.

The auto business continued to benefit from industry trends, gaining market share in both the new and used car space while simultaneously improving credit quality. Revenues grew 12% annualized from the second quarter. The popular "Cash for Clunkers" program generated record monthly auto originations of $1.5 billion for August. The loans originated under this program have been high-quality with higher levels of cash down and better customer credit scores than existing auto loans in our portfolio.

While auto losses typically rise during the second half of the year, losses in our core indirect auto portfolio are actually down slightly from second quarter reflecting the benefit of higher used car prices with the Manheim Used Car Index at record levels. We also benefited from an improved customer mix within our portfolio and the tighter underwriting standards we put in place at the start of this credit cycle.

Student lending provided increased lending opportunities and growth in our customer base. We have successfully transitioned our student loan business to leverage opportunities in private student lending across the expanded Wells Fargo footprint. Private loan originations are up 10% year-to-date compared with 2008 driven by seasonally strong third-quarter back-to-school volume. Originations of government student loans increased 14% over the same time period.

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage once again generated strong results in the third quarter, benefiting from their business model's balance between originations and servicing. Origination revenue was actually down in the third quarter as volumes declined from very high first- and second-quarter levels while servicing revenue on the other hand was up. Total revenue for this business was down modestly in the third quarter from the second quarter. Total originations of $96 billion in the third quarter were strong, although down from second quarter.

Lower mortgage rates early in the fourth quarter are currently driving strong application volume which was up 36% in the first 10 business days of the fourth quarter compared to the same period in the third quarter, although the pace of applications obviously will depend on mortgage rates since about 70% of this activity was refinance related. With a 33 basis point decline in mortgage rates during the third quarter we wrote down the value of the MSRs by $2.1 billion which was more than offset by economic hedge gains of $3.6 billion.

The economic hedges once again generated solid carry income, largely reflecting the low short-term rates in the third quarter which we expect to continue in the fourth quarter. Future hedge results, of course, will also depend on the amount of servicing that is hedged and the composition of the hedging instruments. The ratio of MSRs to loans serviced for others was 83 basis points at quarter end, down from 134 basis points a year ago and the third lowest ratio in our Company's history. The average servicing portfolio note rate was only 5.72%.

Now the second key message is that we're seeing a contribution to earnings and capital growth from Wachovia that is occurring earlier and better than originally anticipated. We are on track to achieve the originally targeted $5 billion of annual run rate savings upon full integration, which we still expect by the end of 2011. After having begun to consolidate the two banks in the three quarters since we have owned Wachovia, we are now beginning to realize about a third of these savings on a run rate basis.

We have very detailed plans to achieve the balance of the savings over the next two years as systems integrations and store conversions are completed in 2011. We now estimate we will spend approximately $5.5 billion in merger costs compared with our previous $7.9 billion estimate. The projection has been lowered primarily because we are achieving a greater proportion of the labor cost savings through attrition rather than severance and because the cost of disposing and/or subleasing owned office space has turned out to be lower than assumed.

Of this $5.5 billion we have spent $1 billion, $559 million through goodwill under purchase accounting and $444 million expensed to earnings including $200 million in the third quarter. A portion of the remaining merger costs will be taken through purchase accounting adjustments to goodwill in the fourth quarter of 2009 with the balance of the merger costs to be taken as expenses over the next two years.

We will report on these expenses each quarter and we believe these expenses will likely be offset by merger-related savings over the next two years, leaving us with the full benefit of the $5 billion of annual savings once the integration is completed.

Our first banking state conversion in Colorado is coming up next month. After Colorado we will continue to convert our other overlap markets followed by the non-overlap markets. Once the conversions are complete we'll offer unmatched convenience for our 70 million customers with similar products on a common system nationwide.

While the banking store rebranding and system conversions remain ahead of us over the next couple of years, much has already been accomplished in terms of preparing for the conversions and rebranding other major businesses such as Wells Fargo Advisors, Wells Fargo Securities, Wells Fargo Mortgage and Wells Fargo Insurance, as well as beginning to instill legacy Wells Fargo's sales practices into the new part of our banking franchise. As a result, the cross sell ratio at Legacy Wachovia increased to 4.65 in the third quarter, up from 4.55 in the second quarter.

When we priced the Wachovia merger we assumed no revenue synergies, but of course revenue synergies are occurring daily. Let me give you four examples of the many areas where synergies are already occurring.

In the securities business we are actively marketing Wachovia's securities placement capabilities to the combined company's expanded base of corporate and commercial relationships to win more and more lead and co-lead bond and equity mandates and fees. Wells Fargo always had commercial and corporate customers who needed access to the capital markets. With the Wachovia merger we now have an outstanding investment banking business to meet our customers' debt, equity and advisory needs.

Parenthetically, this is another great example of how having a diversified model provides revenue in all environments. One reason commercial loan demand has been soft this year is because commercial borrowers are accessing the public markets for financing instead of drawing on their bank lines. Having the securities placement business helps us remain in the flow of our customers' financings whether they borrow from the bank or borrow directly from the capital markets.

The 21,500 financial advisors I mentioned earlier opens up an entirely new and significant source for offering Wells Fargo products and services and we are actively making it very efficient for those advisors to be able to access all of our banking product platforms. These financial advisors already contribute to our mortgage originations and deposit growth. To give you some idea of the potential, the 21,500 base of financial advisors compares to over 28,000 platform banker FTEs throughout our regional banking network.

A third example of revenue synergies with Wachovia would be government and industrial banking, which helps meet the financial needs of government, education, healthcare and tax exempt organizations by offering credit, treasury services and investment banking solutions. Legacy Wells Fargo had many customer relationships with local and state governments within our community banking footprint and we had recently begun to develop a team to better meet their needs.

With the Wachovia merger we now have an integrated model providing seamless coordination and delivery of services to this customer base. Throughout the economic downturn we've continuously provided credit for government and institutional clients nationwide and have increased loan commitments by 14% since the beginning of the year.

And the final example of the revenue synergies with Wachovia would be Global Financial Institutions and Trade Services, which provides global correspondent banking services such as payments and trade solutions, trade and working capital financing and deposit products to 1,450 international banks, 2,200 domestic banks and 30 multilateral institutions from 42 locations around the world.

This business is benefiting from the improvement in global economic activity which drove payment and trade fees up 8% annualized from the second quarter and core deposit growth up 13% from the second quarter. The combination with a smaller but complementary Wells Fargo team brings new foreign-exchange and deposit capabilities to bank clients, but more significantly, the combined global financial institutions business offers a highly developed network of strong and experienced partner banks enabling every Wells Fargo customer to connect to the world.

We are on track, if not ahead, in terms of reducing Wachovia's credit risk. We have dealt with this in several ways. At merger closing we built significant reserves for credit losses, including conforming credit loss emergence practices to the more conservative practices at Wachovia and Wells Fargo.

Second, through purchase accounting we wrote down the higher risk segments of Wachovia's loan portfolios, including the portion of their commercial real estate portfolio with the highest probability of default. Unlike other banks that have yet to incur losses on the highest risk portion of their loans, we have already accounted for these losses.

Overall we believe our life of loan loss estimate originally assumed still holds, with commercial a little higher and Pick-a-Pay lower. In the third quarter we added $184 million to the reserves for impaired commercial and commercial real estate loans. Based on our most recent estimates life of loan losses for Pick-a-Pay are expected to be below original expectations and accordingly we now expect to add modestly to accretable yield for Pick-a-Pay going forward.

Third, Wachovia's securities portfolio and trading assets were already at fair value at merger closing, but we wrote off the unrealized losses in other comprehensive income as a reduction in the carry value of those assets. If anything, the unrealized value of these assets has improved significantly since the acquisition closed due to the subsequent decline in long-term yields and recovery of credit spreads.

Fourth, we have also eliminated risk by reducing balances -- the identified high-risk portfolios of commercial real estate, indirect auto and Pick-a-Pay have been reduced by $5.7 billion linked-quarter through write-downs, modifications and sales.

Let me now turn to credit. We provide a lot of detail on our individual loan portfolios in our quarterly credit supplement, which is available in the investor relations section of our website, which you should refer to for our detailed analysis of credit performance this quarter. I would like to spend my time on the call highlighting a few key credit trends and portfolios.

While credit losses and nonperforming assets increased again this quarter, the rate of increase slowed and we have seen signs of stabilization in several consumer loan portfolios. Consumer loans 90 days past due actually declined $140 million from the second quarter and total loans 90 days past due, excluding insured Ginnie Mae loans, was up only $8 million, essentially flat.

The loss rate in the third quarter for legacy Wells Fargo was 3.37%, below large bank peers. Our overall loss rate of 2.5% reflects the benefit of purchase accounting on Wachovia's high-risk loan portfolios at year end. Legacy Wells Fargo net charge-offs were relatively flat from the second quarter reflecting lower losses in commercial and commercial real estate and slightly higher losses in consumer. Wachovia's net charge-offs increased to 1.66% of average loans due to some deterioration in its portfolios and the lagging impact of purchase accounting.

The increase in commercial and commercial real estate losses in Wachovia's non-impaired portfolio reflects the lagging impact of purchase accounting with the overall loss rate in the third quarter for Wachovia's portfolio roughly comparable to Wells Fargo's high-quality portfolio. Over 40% of the increase in Wachovia's consumer losses came from the non-impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio, again reflecting the lagging effect of purchase accounting. We currently expect credit losses to peak in the first half of next year in our consumer portfolio and later in 2010 in our commercial and commercial real estate portfolios absent the further deterioration in the economy.

Nonaccrual loans were up again this quarter, although at a slightly lower growth rate. Purchase accounting for Wachovia's loans has resulted in some anomalies in our nonaccrual growth rate. Here's one way to think about this. At year end 2008, Wachovia had $20 billion of non-accruals that were then eliminated at closing due to purchase accounting for credit impaired loans. Since then about $14 billion of the estimated life of loan losses we reserved for under purchase accounting have actually been charged to the nonaccretable difference rather than charged off against loans.

If we were to add back the $20 billion in Wachovia's nonaccruals to the reported nonaccrual total, nonaccruals would have grown from $27 billion at December 31, 2008, including legacy Wells Fargo's nonaccruals, to $41 billion at September 30, 2009 and that's before reducing the September 30, 2009 nonaccruals for a substantial portion of the $14 billion in charge-offs that would have reduced the ending nonaccrual balance.

So in effect we believe purchase accounting had a significant impact on the nonaccrual growth rate this year and the impact of the credit deterioration in nonaccruals has actually been much less significant than what is implied by our reported growth rate.

The $2.7 billion increase in commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans in the third quarter was down from the $3.1 billion increase in the second quarter. Nonaccrual commercial loans in Wells Fargo's portfolio were up only $777 million.

Wachovia's growth rate slowed and the $1.9 billion increase in commercial and commercial real estate from the second quarter in the Wachovia portfolio reflects some deterioration in the portfolio, but is in line with expectations post purchase accounting and is reflected in our allowance for credit losses. 50% of the total increase in commercial nonaccruals was from five large relationships and 70% of the increase was driven by four industries including real estate-related services, non-bank financials, media and gaming.

The rate of growth in consumer non-accruals also slowed in the quarter with the increase in legacy Wells Fargo's consumer portfolio only $606 million from the second quarter and the increase in Wachovia's consumer portfolio was primarily driven by the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. The growth in Pick-a-Pay nonaccruals reflected the inflows expected after purchase accounting write-downs. We continued to be active in modifying Pick-a-Pay loans through the use of troubled debt restructurings which are expected to temporarily keep nonaccrual levels elevated until the modified loans can demonstrate performance.

Let me highlight three of our loan portfolios. Our $23.6 billion credit card portfolio is only 3% of total loans, significantly less than other large bank peers. Our credit cards are sold primarily to our retail banking customers and we have not focused on being a large national credit card company. The smaller relative size and relationship focus of our portfolio is one reason we now believe our total consumer losses will peak in the first half of 2010. In fact, the loss rate on our credit card portfolio, while still elevated from historical norms, was actually down slightly from the second quarter.

Our $135 billion commercial real estate portfolio, down $2.6 billion from year end, is larger than our peers, but is well diversified by property type and geography. As expected, losses throughout our CRE portfolio have increased from historically low levels. However, we also believe that our relationship focus and prudent credit discipline build inherently higher quality into the CRE loan book compared with the rest of the industry.

Our commercial real estate portfolio is primarily originated through two key channels. First, $79 billion are in the wholesale banking group, which originates both larger and more complex CRE loans in our real estate banking group as well as loans to medium-size customers in our middle-market real estate group and our commercial banking group.

Within wholesale banking the CRE portfolio, which includes C&I loans managed by the commercial real estate group, can be broken into three portfolios -- the portfolio originated at legacy Wells Fargo and two portfolios originated at Wachovia, one credit impaired and one non-impaired.

The $34 billion CRE portfolio that was originated at legacy Wells Fargo is led by a seasoned and experienced management team that has worked together for decades including through the troubled commercial real estate market in the early '90s. Underwriting in this portfolio is focused primarily on cash flows and creditworthiness of the borrower, not solely on valuations. Losses in this portfolio actually decreased from the second quarter to 1.3%, down from 2.8%.

The majority of Wachovia's CRE portfolio is managed by a dedicated specialty group focused on mitigating risk and losses utilizing a variety of asset restructuring, disposition and workout strategies and includes the $31 billion of Wachovia originated commercial real estate loans that were not credit impaired. The loss rate on this portfolio is increasing as expected from the extremely low level earlier in this year post purchase accounting. The third-quarter loss rate on this portfolio was in line with the loans originated at Wells Fargo with a third-quarter loss rate of 1.28%.

The $12 billion of loans originated at Wachovia that were included in the credit impaired portfolio are also being managed by the dedicated specialty group. While the loss rates on the impaired portfolio have been significantly higher than our core wholesale CRE portfolio, they are generally performing as we anticipated.

Charge-offs in this portfolio were at $143 million in the third quarter. And since this is an impaired portfolio, resolutions to assets, which would normally be reflected as loan-loss recoveries, are accounted for as either net interest income or non-interest income. These recoveries totaled $64 million in the third quarter. Therefore the economic loss on this portfolio on a net basis was only $80 million or 2.63%.

The $39 billion of CRE loans originated through the regional business banking group have a smaller average loan size of approximately $600,000 and are very diverse geographically. Approximately half of these loans are owner occupied. The loss rate on this portfolio in the third quarter was 1.28%.

The other portfolio I would like to highlight is the Pick-a-Pay portfolio. We are very encouraged with the performance to date of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio and actually expect lower life of loan losses than we'd estimated at the time of the merger for both the credit impaired and the non-impaired portfolios.

Due to our improved current outlook, beginning in the fourth quarter we expect to recognize a modest yield increase in our impaired portfolio, recapturing a portion of the life of loan purchase accounting marks through net interest income. While the housing market, unemployment and economy levels will affect future performance, let me explain why we are optimistic about the future performance of this portfolio.

First, we have been actively modifying these loans and have completed nearly 20,000 full-term modifications in the third quarter and over 43,500 modifications year to date, modifying 22% of the loans in the impaired portfolio. Nearly 98% of the modifications completed have decreased the payment materially for the customer, which we believe is the key driver of success.

All modifications are re-underwritten, income is verified and the negative amortization feature is eliminated. For the modifications we have completed earlier this year, our redefault rates after six months have been less than half the 41% redefault rates for industry modifications with a comparable amount of seasoning. But we acknowledge again it's still very early in the lives of these modifications and we will continue to report on performance going forward.

Second, we've continued to reduce the size of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio to a total of $87.8 billion outstanding, down $2.6 billion from second quarter and down $7.5 billion from year end. This decline reflects loans paid in full, loss mitigation efforts, and the fact that we are not originating any new loans in this portfolio.

Third, while this portfolio is called the Pick-a-Pay portfolio, only 74% of it is Pick-a-Pay loans which have negative amortization potential, down from 86% at year end, a $22 billion reduction. So not all loans that we include in our Pick-a-Pay portfolio are pay option loans with negative amortization potential.

Fourth, deferred interest balances declined for the second consecutive quarter due to the combination of lower interest rates and the impact of gradually increasing minimum payment requirements, as well as our modification programs. In September approximately one-third of the customers who chose to make the minimum payment did not defer interest. While customers' minimum payments have continued to increase annually, market interest rates have decreased and many customers are at the point where their minimum payment not only covered the interest due, but actually paid down some principal as well. And we expect this trend to continue.

Fifth, the stabilization in the outlook on home prices in certain markets where we have significant exposure benefits the expected performance of the portfolio.

And finally, we have observed improvements in delinquency roll rates compared to projections earlier in the year.

As you would expect, our non-impaired and impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolios are very different. The non-impaired portfolio has shown stronger credit characteristics, and, again, let me explain some of the key differences.

The average loan size on the non-impaired portfolio is $227,000 versus $326,000 in the impaired portfolio. A significant portion of the non-impaired portfolio was originated prior to 2006 with an average age of loans of 5.5 years versus 3.5 years in the impaired portfolio. 49% of the non-impaired portfolio is in California compared with 68% of the impaired portfolio. And the non-impaired portfolio includes a large subset of loans that will be expected to have minimal losses even if they were to go into default with 36% of the portfolio having an updated combined loan to value of less than 80%.

Our Pick-a-Pay portfolio continued to perform better than the industry. Recent data released by the OCC indicates that as of June 30, 2009, 25% of all industry option ARM loans are at least 60 days past due while only 17% of our portfolio was 60 days or more past due with most of these loans in the impaired portfolio. These delinquency rates demonstrate what we have always believed, that our option ARM portfolio is of better quality than the rest of the industry.

Now finally, I would like to update you on our most recent analysis of the impact of the application of FAS 166 and 167, which is expected to result in the consolidation of certain off-balance-sheet assets currently not included in our financial statements. We provided a preliminary analysis in our second-quarter 10-Q. Based on our continued refinement of this analysis we now expect approximately $55 billion in incremental GAAP assets to be brought on balance sheet representing approximately $28 billion in incremental risk weighted assets.

This latest analysis is lower than we originally projected primarily due to a reduction in the amount of securitized residential mortgages that will be consolidated. In addition, we continue to explore the sale of certain interests we hold in securitized residential mortgage loans, which would further reduce the amount of incremental GAAP assets and incremental risk weighted assets.

In summary, while the economic recovery continues at its own pace, we are forging ahead and playing to our strengths. One year after the merger agreement with Wachovia was announced, we generated record earnings and capital as we benefit from a diversity of businesses, many of which produce countercyclical performance and help create sustainable growth in all cycles.

We're seeing a good contribution to revenue from Wachovia as we make progress in laying the groundwork for a nationwide platform to provide the utmost in service and convenience for our 70 million customers.

We're seeing signs of stability in the credit portfolio. We currently expect credit losses to peak in 2010 with consumer losses potentially peaking in the first half of the year and gradually declining as the year progresses absent, again, a further deterioration in the economy.

We're exhibiting strong expense discipline and bearing the fruit of prior expense initiatives as well as merger efficiencies.

We've generated once again an industry-leading net interest margin at 4.36%. And we've continued to strengthen the balance sheet, build credit reserves and reduce risk on our balance sheet.

This is our last recorded call. Wells Fargo has always been committed to providing clear, complete and transparent communication about the Company's results to all of its stakeholders. As we enter the second year of the merger with Wachovia we will be expanding our quarterly communications to include a live quarterly earnings conference call starting in January for our fourth-quarter and full-year 2009 results, and we will also host an investor day in 2010.

If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523, or Jim Rowe, Associate Director, at 415-396-8216.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | iwealth : Private Banking/Wealth Management | i814 : Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i831 : Financial Investments | ibnk : Banking/Credit | iinv : Investing/Securities | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
c151 : Earnings | gpersf : Personal Finance | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | e1102 : Money Supply | gfraud : Fraud | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c12 : Corporate Crime/Legal/Judicial | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcrim : Crime/Courts | gfinc : Financial Crime | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020091104e5al000ji
  


 HD
 Q2  2009 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
   WC
5,647 words
   PD
22 July 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for participating in the Wells Fargo second-quarter 2009 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we discuss our second-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.

In this call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statements and balance sheet items and other measures of our future financial results and conditions, including statements about future loss content of and cash flows from the legacy Wachovia impaired loan portfolios, expected credit losses and credit performance generally and in specific loan portfolios, the adequacy of our allowance from credit losses, future levels of nonperforming assets, future levels of capital, the timing and amount of expected cost savings in business and revenue synergies related to the Wachovia merger and other initiatives and our ability to generate revenue growth and earnings.

   TD
These forward-looking statements are based on our expectations and they are not guarantees of future performance. They speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Actual results may differ materially from expectations due to a number of factors, including our ability to successfully integrate Wachovia and realize the expected cost savings and benefits from the merger. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets, housing prices and unemployment do not stabilize or improve.

For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our second-quarter results and our first-quarter 10-Q and our 2008 annual report on Form 10-K, each available on the SEC's website at SEC.gov.

In this call, we will also discuss our tangible common equity, Tier 1 common equity and related ratios, as well as pretax, pre-provision profits. For more information about these measures, refer to our second-quarter earnings press release, which is accessible on our website, wellsfargo.com by clicking on About Us, then Investor Relations, then Quarterly Earnings. We have also posted on our website a second-quarter 2009 credit supplement that provides performance information for specific loan portfolios. I will now turn the call over to CFO, Howard Atkins.

HOWARD ATKINS, SVP & CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Wells Fargo earned another record profit this quarter, $3.17 billion. While many banks are struggling to earn consistent operating profits, we have had back-to-back quarterly record profits totaling $6.22 billion so far this year.

Our second-quarter profit, which was up 81% from a year ago, was after incurring a $565 million pretax FDIC special assessment, $244 million of merger-related costs and a $700 million credit reserve build. The strength of our results should not be particularly surprising. Wells Fargo has a long track record of building its franchise in all economic environments by profitably growing its 80 plus businesses and this quarter was no exception. In fact, the number of businesses that contributed to the overall result was even larger and more broad-based than usual.

We saw strong contributions from businesses as diverse as regional and commercial banking, mortgage origination and mortgage servicing, investment banking, wealth management, card services, insurance and international. Of our 30 or so largest businesses, more than half produced revenue growth of at least 8% annualized sequentially, the broadest mix of businesses with such strong growth in at least the last two years.

In addition to the profits that come from successfully executing our uniquely diverse and well-positioned business model, we are gaining new customers, gaining more of our existing customers' business and gaining marketshare in many businesses. This inflow of new customers and additional business has the potential to continue to add to earnings well beyond the turn in the credit cycle.

We also are beginning to benefit from the business synergies and new opportunities we have from acquiring Wachovia, which has already begun to add to our earnings. Our earnings this quarter were driven by numerous accomplishments, including the following -- record revenue, up 28% annualized from the first quarter; record retail bank household cross-sell of Wells Fargo products of 5.84 products and wholesale cross-sell of 6.4 products at legacy Wells Fargo.

At legacy Wells, 41% of retail bank households have over six products with us and one out of every four retail bank households now have at least eight products with us. A 14% increase in regional banking core products sales of legacy Wells Fargo from the prior year on a comparable basis; $194 billion in new mortgage applications, up from $190 billion in the first quarter.

The second quarter was the second best mortgage applications quarter in our Company's history, indicating potentially good origination levels into the third quarter. A 20% annualized increase in combined average checking and savings deposits from the first quarter, which now represents 80% of total core customer deposits, arguably the best deposit base among large banks in the world.

Over $206 billion of new credit extended to customers in the second quarter. Wells Fargo has extended more credit than any other bank in the United States this year through May 2009, including mortgage securities purchased. 8% increase in wealth brokerage and retirement services client assets from the prior quarter. Over $1 trillion of client assets.

Net interest margin of 4.3%, the best among the large banks, up 14 basis points from the first quarter. Pretax pre-provision profit of $9.8 billion, up 27% annualized due to revenue growth and disciplined expense management. Pretax pre-provision profit, which is total revenue less non-interest expense was double credit losses in the quarter, another illustration of our ability to earn through the current credit cycle.

Reflecting the diverse nature and competitive advantages of our business model, our pretax pre-provision profit has remained well above cyclically high charge-offs and has accelerated through much of the last two years.

Our earnings were well-balanced in the second quarter reflecting the overall quality of our record results. Total revenue earned in the quarter was roughly split equally between spread income and fee income and driven by both retail and commercial businesses. Wachovia and legacy Wells Fargo each contributed to the overall record $22.5 billion of revenue, about 39% from Wachovia.

To give you some idea just how broad-based the results were, I will elaborate on several of the businesses that grew revenue in the quarter. Wells Fargo remains one of the largest providers of credit to the United States economy. In the second quarter, we extended $206 billion in new credit to our consumer and commercial customers for a total of $917 billion since the start of the credit crisis in mid-2007.

While loan demand has moderated in the last two quarters as consumers and businesses reduce their debt, the facilities we have extended represent an important source of liquidity to our customers and an important source of fee income to Wells Fargo. Loan and commitment fees in the quarter were up 6% annualized from the first quarter.

We continued to experience very strong core deposit growth, particularly in checking and savings accounts. While macroeconomic factors such as the money supply growth and higher consumer savings rates are having a positive impact on deposit growth in the industry, we believe we are gaining share as we add customers and build deposit relationships in retail, commercial and wealth management.

Average core deposits of $766 billion in the quarter were up 6% annualized from $754 billion in the first quarter. During the quarter, $24 billion of higher rate Wachovia CDs matured and we retained $14 billion of these deposits in lower-cost checking and savings accounts or lower rate CDs.

Consumer checking accounts were up a net 5.5% for the overall Company and up a net 6.5% at legacy Wells Fargo from the prior year. California continued to outperform our other banking states with a net 9.5% increase in consumer checking accounts benefiting from our strong competitive position in the state and from growth at Wachovia stores.

We also had strong growth in small business checking account, especially at Wachovia's retail banking franchise. Small business checking accounts were up a net 3.9% throughout Wells Fargo and up a net 6.2% at Wachovia from the prior year, benefiting from a small business marketing campaign.

Our deposit base is arguably the best among large banks with approximately 10% of the nation's deposits at Wells Fargo. About 80% of our core deposits are in checking or savings accounts, among the highest of our large bank peers based on first-quarter data. This is a major driver behind our industry-leading net interest margin.

We have several competitive advantages in being able to attract and retain more low-cost deposits. First, our long-term focus on capturing the primary checking account relationship has provided a gateway to increased cross-sell and balance retention. On average, our retail checking account customers have five additional products with legacy Wells Fargo, which increases our success in retaining these checking account balances.

As the nation's number one small business lender, as well as the number one SBA lender, including Wachovia, we also focus on serving the checking account needs of our small business and business banking customers, which also drives our higher balances.

And finally, our strong distribution network and the convenience it offers is key to meeting the needs of our existing checking account customers and attracting new retail and business customers.

Wells Fargo Home Mortgage had its third best origination quarter in its history, $129 billion in the quarter, up 28% from the first quarter. Mortgage applications in the second quarter were $194 billion, up $4 billion from the first-quarter application rate. Applications for home purchases almost doubled in the quarter reflecting increased purchase activity in some markets like California where lower home prices and lower mortgage interest rates have substantially improved affordability.

Despite the increase in mortgage rates late in the second quarter, the mortgage pipeline ended the quarter at a relatively high $90 billion. The managed mortgage servicing portfolio increased 38% from a year ago to $2.2 trillion.

The servicing side of the mortgage business not only has good fee income growth and economies of scale, but it also represents an important source of cross-sell opportunities. As mortgage rates rose 72 basis points during the quarter, we wrote up the mortgage servicing rights assets by $2.3 billion while writing down the value of the offsetting hedge by $1.3 billion. The hedge generated solid carry income due to the low level of short-term rates, which we expect will continue in the third quarter. Future hedge results, however, will also depend on the amount of servicing that is hedged and the composition of the hedging instruments.

The ratio of MSRs to loans serviced for others was 91 basis points at quarter end, down from 137 basis points a year ago. The average note rate was only 5.74%, the lowest rate in over three years.

Card fees grew 33% annualized in the first quarter on higher volumes, not by raising the fees we charge our customers. Our credit card business is relationship-based, primarily sold through existing banking customers as a means of deepening the relationship. We intentionally have kept our fees constant while others in the industry have increased customer fees.

Linked-quarter purchase volume on credit cards was up 26%. Some of this growth was seasonal, but also reflects increased customer usage and new customer growth, including new private label dealers at Wells Fargo Financial's retail sales finance business.

While credit losses on credit cards remain elevated, the business remains profitable. We have a great opportunity to cross-sell credit cards into the Wachovia customer base. Currently 15% of Wachovia or retail bank customers have a credit card with us compared with the 36% penetration at legacy Wells Fargo.

The National Credit Card Act will benefit some credit card customers by eliminating practices such as double cycle billing and universal default. Wells Fargo did not engage in any of the practices that the Act is addressing. However, other aspects of the Act will likely result in further credit tightening and general increases in the cost of consumer credit.

Wealth Brokerage and Retirement Services posted a strong second quarter driven by 13% linked-quarter revenue growth and positive operating leverage. Client assets reached $1.1 trillion at quarter-end, up 8% from the first quarter. We also had strong growth in deposits, up 11% from the first quarter.

As retail investors waded back into the market for the second quarter, we were able to help them with their investment needs through our retail securities brokerage business with managed account assets up 16%. Our 22,000 registered representatives now have full access to Wells Fargo's suite of deposit, mortgage, trust and other banking products for their clients.

Second quarter saw a record mortgage origination volume through this channel, another example of new cross-sell and revenue synergies with Wachovia. We expect additional cross-sell as we integrate our home equity, small business financing, business lending, equipment financing, credit card and other platforms to our brokerage business in the coming quarters.

Year-to-date, we have recruited nearly 1000 experienced financial advisers and on average, the business productivity of the new financial advisers is [60%] higher than those who left.

Our Retirement Services business also benefited from improved market conditions and higher net inflows with retirement plan assets up 12% to $250 billion and IRA assets up 10% to $212 billion from the first quarter.

With the acquisition of Wachovia Dealer Services, Wells Fargo is now the second largest auto lender in the country. Revenue in this business is up 7% from the first quarter driven by portfolio growth and widening spreads. Two years ago, Wells Fargo's auto business was underperforming and we purposely put the brakes on the growth in this business. Today, we are extremely pleased with the performance of Wachovia Dealer Services. With the expertise acquired from Westcorp, it is one of the best run auto businesses in the country with an exceptional management team that understands how to operate a profitable auto business.

This strong team, combined with the corporate strength at Wells Fargo and capabilities across the retail and commercial auto business, is producing excellent results and gaining marketshare. Investment banking revenue increased 29% from the first quarter. This business combines the best of the two companies' advisory, financing and securities distribution capabilities to provide a range of essentially fee-based investment banking and securities placement services.

On top of that, we have one of the most attractive bases of corporate and commercial relationships in US banking. The skill and scale we now have in this business allows us to profitably participate in the customer advisory and customer flow aspects of investment banking.

Asset-based lending revenues grew 13% in the first quarter. This group of businesses includes Wells Fargo Foothill, Wells Fargo Business Credit, Wells Fargo Trade Capital and Wachovia Capital Finance. Asset-based lending typically produces stronger results in tougher economic environments by providing our commercial customers creative financing alternatives to more traditional bank lines and other sources of capital. Margins continue to widen and we continue to increase share in this business as competitors struggle or exit the business.

Asset-based lending is also benefiting from the enhanced investment banking platform gained through the merger with Wachovia. We have had more chances to compete for and win lead positions in larger credit facilities creating additional fee income.

Our international business also produced strong linked-quarter revenue growth, up 16% annualized from the first quarter. Our global payments business, which was acquired with Wachovia, generated 14% growth from the first quarter in international fees from its business of processing US dollar payments from overseas banks. This represents a substantial turnaround from the second half of last year when volume in the business was reduced as global bank customers reacted cautiously to market conditions in the United States. With the assurance of the strength of Wells Fargo behind this business, these customers returned this year.

In addition, our foreign exchange revenues were up 14% on a linked-quarter basis where volatile currency markets continued to drive greater customer demand for risk management solutions.

The Wachovia acquisition is proceeding as expected. 39% of consolidated revenue in the second quarter came from Wachovia. Revenue synergies between legacy Wells Fargo and Wachovia are emerging in both directions and are ahead of expectations. For example, we have successfully leveraged the distribution capabilities of Wachovia Securities with Wells Fargo's extensive commercial and corporate relationships to earn more bond and equity origination mandates.

In our mortgage business, some of our near record volume of mortgage applications is the result of Wells Fargo Mortgage reps working with Wachovia customers to help them finance or refinance a home. The new revenue opportunities from the Wachovia acquisition are potentially significant. For example, while Wachovia has a similar number of retail banking stores and about 10 million retail bank households, Wachovia's retail bank household cross-sell of Wachovia's product is currently 4.55 compared with legacy Wells Fargo retail bank cross-sell of Wells Fargo products of 5.84. So increasing the cross-sell of Wachovia retail bank households just to the legacy Wells Fargo level will provide an opportunity to increase the number of products held by Wachovia customers by over 25%.

This opportunity extends across many products. For example, 14% of legacy Wells retail bank households have either a Wells Fargo or Wachovia mortgage compared with 9.5% of Wachovia's retail bank households. 36% of legacy Wells retail bank households have a credit card with us compared with around 15% at Wachovia. Around 80% of legacy Wells Fargo retail bank households have a debit card compared with only around 60% of Wachovia.

In addition to these revenue synergies, we are on track to achieve $5 billion of annual run rate expense savings when the integration is completed, which is scheduled to occur in 2011. We have begun to realize those savings in the first two quarters of the integration; although merger and integration charges have largely offset the consolidation savings so far.

Let me now turn to credit quality, which performed in line with our expectations. Our credit losses increased during the quarter as expected, but the rate of increase slowed in many of our consumer portfolios. We also saw some signs of stabilization in early-stage delinquencies in certain consumer portfolios.

At legacy Wells Fargo, seven portfolios, including credit card and Business Direct, had a decline in 30 days past due in the second quarter compared with the first quarter. While this trend may not continue, we believe it reflects the actions we have taken in tightening credit standards over the past 24 months.

Other portfolios, such as commercial, continue to show higher losses, but from historically low levels. Losses throughout our portfolios will continue to be driven by unemployment and real estate values. But with the purchase accounting marks we took on Wachovia's portfolios and the actions we have taken to reduce risk throughout our portfolios, we are encouraged by how they have performed during these challenging economic times.

We once again provided a lot of detail on our individual loan portfolios in our credit supplement this quarter, which is available in the Investor Relations section of our website. I would like to highlight two of our portfolios -- the commercial real estate and Pick-A-Pay portfolios.

We provide commercial real estate loans to businesses large and small. Our $137 billion commercial real estate portfolio is well-diversified by property type and geography. As expected, losses throughout our commercial real estate portfolio are increasing from historically low levels; however, we also firmly believe that our relationship focus and prudent credit discipline builds inherently higher quality into the CRE loan book compared with the rest of the industry.

Our commercial real estate loans are primarily originated through two key channels. $77.8 billion are in the wholesale banking group, which originates both larger and more complex CRE loans in our real estate banking group, as well as loans to medium-size customers in our middle-market real estate group and our commercial banking group.

At Wells Fargo, a seasoned and experienced credit risk management team is responsible for maintaining credit discipline. We believe this is the best team in banking and we continue to benefit from their deep experience gained from managing through several previous tough credit cycles.

The loans originated at Wachovia that were included in the impaired portfolio are being aggressively managed by a dedicated team focused on mitigating risks and losses utilizing a variety of asset restructuring disposition and workout strategies. While the loss rates on the impaired portfolio have been significantly higher than our core wholesale CRE portfolio, they are generally performing as we had anticipated and as previously indicated, estimated life of loan losses in Wachovia's CRE portfolio were already written down at close.

The $50 billion of CRE loans originating through the community banking group have a smaller average loan size and are geographically diverse. Approximately half of those loans are owner-occupied.

While credit losses throughout our CRE portfolio are increasing from historically low levels, unlike the residential real estate market and for that matter the commercial real estate market of the early '90s, we are not dealing with an outsized overbuilt market. While the size of our portfolio has remained relatively flat reflecting lower demand, we continue to originate high-quality loans at improved turns and spreads.

The Pick-a-Pay portfolio also performed as expected as we continued to derisk the portfolio. I would like to highlight some key points that are important for every investor to understand about this portfolio. First, not all option ARM portfolios are alike and we believe we have the best portfolio in the industry. While recently reported industry data as of April 2009 indicates 37% of all industry option ARM loans are at least 60 days past due, our portfolio is performing significantly better with only 18% 60 days or more past due as of June 30. Not surprisingly, our non-impaired portfolio is performing significantly better than our impaired portfolio with only 4.7% 60 days or more past due. In fact, 92% of the non-impaired portfolio is current compared with 62% of the impaired portfolio.

In addition, while many other option ARM loans have recast periods as short as five years, our Pick-a-Pay loans generally have 10-year contractual recasts. As a result, we have virtually no loans where the terms recast over the next three years allowing us more time to work with borrowers as they weather the current economic downturn.

Second, we continue to reduce the size of this portfolio with a total of $90 billion outstanding, down $3 billion from the first quarter and down $5 billion from year-end. This reduction reflects loans paid in full, loss mitigation efforts and the fact that we are not originating any new loans of this size.

Third, we have been very active in assisting customers and modifying loans, completing 22,200 loan modifications in the second quarter, up from 11,000 modifications in the first quarter. These modifications include principal forgiveness, term extensions and interest rate reductions. In most loans that we modify, we eliminate the negative am feature, confirm income and reduce debt to income to no higher than 38%. We are seeing very positive early performance on these loan modifications, but it is still too early to declare a success.

However, we are confident that the significant loan modification efforts we are making will reduce the future losses we will realize in this portfolio. In addition, the lower carrying value that results from these modifications improves loan-to-value.

Fourth, for the first time in over five years, deferred interest balances declined this quarter due in part to lower interest rates and the impact of gradually increasing minimum payment requirements, which not only eliminates additions to deferred interest, but reduces the deferred interest already outstanding.

Finally, after once again reviewing the impaired Pick-a-Pay portfolio, we did not need to take any credit reserve strengthening actions during the quarter on that portfolio.

In addition to Pick-a-Pay, we continued working with customers on other real estate secured loans throughout our portfolio to help ensure ongoing affordability. In the first half of 2009, through lower rates, refinances and modifications, we helped close to one million homeowners. This includes providing more than 200,000 trial and completed modifications, including those made in our Pick-a-Pay portfolio, an increase of more than 100% from the same period last year. We are doing everything we can to help customers, including increasing our trained staff by 54% over the first half of this year to 11,500 [default] team members.

It is important when analyzing trends for the quarter to remember that these loan modifications also affected certain credit metrics. For example, if a modification includes some debt forgiveness, the amount forgiven will generally be charged off and increase net charge-offs for the period. However, one effect of this forgiveness may be to pull forward net charge-offs that might otherwise have occurred in the future. Therefore, a current period charge-off is in effect a derisking action that may benefit future portfolio credit quality.

Loan modifications can also create troubled debt restructurings. We do not reclassify to accruing status a non-accrual loan that has been modified until the borrower has made at least six consecutive payments under the modified terms.

Now credit performance continued to benefit from our efforts to reduce our balance sheet exposure to higher risk loans. Approximately $114 billion of consumer loans are from businesses we have exited or from portfolios that we are running off. These include legacy Wells Fargo indirect auto, a portfolio we began reducing nearly two years ago; indirect home equity, which we also exited almost two years ago; Pick-a-Pay, which Wachovia stopped originating last year and which was subject to purchase accounting write-downs and has benefited from our success in modifying loans.

Additionally, we are focused on further reducing certain high-risk portions of Wachovia's commercial real estate division's portfolio. In total, these portfolios have been reduced $51 billion, or 24% as of June 30, 2008 to write-downs, runoffs or modifications, including a $6.3 billion reduction just in the second quarter of 2009.

Because we have been reducing credit exposure for some of these higher risk portfolios, we believe growth in loan losses will be more moderate than would otherwise be the case and the peak in our credit losses would be expected to occur early.

The increase in non-accrual loans during the quarter was as expected. When analyzing our non-accruals, it is important to keep in mind several things. First, about 60% of the increase in non-accruing loans came from Wachovia's non-impaired loan portfolio, largely due to Wachovia's impaired loans being written down through purchase accounting at the time of the merger and the removal of those loans from non-accrual status, which left only $92 million in non-accrual loans as of December 31, 2008.

Because of the low starting point, there was an expected repopulation of non-accrual loan balances that primarily occurred in the second quarter. Going forward, the increase in non-accrual loans attributable to this repopulation effect will be much less significant.

Second, not all nonperforming loans result in a loss. More than 90% of the second quarter's $18.3 billion in nonperforming assets are secured. We consider both delinquency and default nonperforming status as both loss and allowance estimates for our consumer loan portfolios. The consumer problem loan policy requires real estate secured loans to be placed on non-accrual at 120 days past due. At 180 days past due, the loan is written down to the net realizable value and the loss is taken through charge-offs. The allowance, therefore, captures emerging loss estimates for these loans. The majority of the loss associated with these loans is taken at 180 days past due.

Because of the continued weakness in the real estate market and large amount of loan modifications we have completed, nonperforming loans are staying on the books longer than in the past. In addition, nonperformers showed signs of stabilization due to the benefit of loss mitigation and prior credit tightening.

We continued to build our allowance for credit losses totaling $23.5 billion, which included a $700 million credit reserve build in the second quarter. The allowance covers approximately 12 months of expected losses for our consumer portfolios and inherent losses in commercial and commercial real estate portfolios expected to emerge over approximately the next 24 months. The allowance coverage considers the current economic environment, the impact of our derisking and the historical performance of the loan portfolios.

Let me now turn to capital. We continued to significantly build capital during the quarter with our Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets reaching 4.49% at quarter end, up from 3.12% at March 31. Tangible common equity to total risk-weighted assets was 5.24% at quarter-end, up from 3.84% at March 31 and Tier 1 capital to total risk-weighted assets reached 9.8%, up from 8.3% at March 31.

By June 30, 2009, we had already generated $14.2 billion toward the Federal Reserve's $13.7 billion SCAP capital requirement, an excess of $500 million. We generated this $14.2 billion through an $8.6 billion equity raise and by generating capital internally in the second quarter, including $2.4 billion of actual pre-provision net revenue or pretax pre-provision profit plus certain Federal Reserve adjustments in excess of the Federal Reserve's estimate; $2.7 billion realized of deferred tax assets and $500 million of other internally generated sources of capital, including core deposit intangible amortization. These internal sources of SCAP qualifying capital are expected to further add to the $14.2 billion in the third quarter.

As you know, we accepted the U.S. Treasury's investment of $25 billion last October to help extend credit into the US economy. And we have extended a total of $471 billion to creditworthy customers since then, nearly 19 times the government's investment. We will work closely with our regulators to determine the appropriate time to repay their investment and we will do this in a shareholder-friendly way while maintaining strong capital levels.

In summary, it has truly been an exceptional quarter and year for our Company. We are extremely pleased with the performance of our businesses across the board in underscoring the balanced strength of our diversified business model, which drove a record $3.2 billion in profits. This demonstrated once again an ability to create sustainable growth through all cycles, very much what we have been saying throughout the credit crisis.

While of course we still operate in the challenging economic, it is worth repeating some of our accomplishments this quarter -- record revenue, up 28% annualized from first quarter; record pretax pre-provision profit of $9.8 billion with strong contributions across our diverse businesses; our best mortgage origination quarter since 2003; net interest margin of 4.3%, the highest among the large bank peers; 20% growth annualized in average consumer checking accounts and savings deposits; higher capital ratios and strengthened reserves.

The new Wells Fargo is off to a very powerful start and we see an incredible future in the years ahead. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523 or Jim Rowe, Associate Director, at 415-396-8216.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company | funcp : Wachovia Corp.
   IN
i8150105 : Consumer Lending | i371 : Measuring/Precision Instruments | i32 : Machinery/Industrial Goods | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | ibnk : Banking/Credit | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking
   NS
gpersf : Personal Finance | e1122 : Mortgage Applications/Refinancing | e1106 : Consumer Credit/Expenditure/Savings | c151 : Earnings | e1101 : Economic Growth | gdemog : Demographics | e511 : Capital Movements/Invisible Trade | e1102 : Money Supply | e1201 : Central Bank Intervention | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c181 : Acquisitions/Mergers/Takeovers | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | c18 : Ownership Changes | cactio : Corporate Actions | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | e11 : Economic Performance/Indicators | e12 : Economic/Monetary Policy | e51 : Trade/External Payments | ecat : Economic News | gcat : Political/General News | gcom : Society/Community/Work | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090805e57m000mc
  


 HD
 Q1  2009 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
   WC
4,432 words
   PD
22 April 2009
   SN
CQ FD Disclosure
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©009 by CQ Transcriptions, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations. (Operator Instructions)

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for participating in the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2009 earnings review prerecorded call.

   TD
Before we discuss our first-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In this call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of our future financial results and condition, including statements about future loss content of and cash flows from the legacy Wachovia impaired loan portfolios; expected credit losses and credit performance generally and in specific loan portfolios; the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses; future levels of nonperforming assets; future levels of capital; the timing and amount of expected cost savings related to the Wachovia merger and other initiatives; and our ability to generate revenue growth and earnings.

Forward-looking statements give our expectations, and they are not guarantees of future performance. They speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. Actual results may differ significantly from expectations due to a number of factors, including the continued accuracy of our estimates used to determine purchase accounting adjustments on Wachovia's loan portfolio and other assets. There is no assurance that our allowance for credit losses will be adequate to cover future credit losses, especially if credit markets and unemployment do not stabilize.

For a discussion of factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the Form 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results, and our 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K, both available on the SEC's website at sec.gov.

In this call we will also discuss our tangible common equity and tangible common equity ratio. For more information about these measures, including a reconciliation of tangible common equity to total equity, refer to the tangible common equity table in our first-quarter earnings press release, which is accessible on our website, wellsfargo.com, by clicking on About Us, then Investor Relations, then Quarterly Earnings. We've also posted on our website a first-quarter 2009 credit supplement that provides performance information for specific loan portfolios.

I will now turn the call over to CFO Howard Atkins.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. I'd like to focus my remarks on how Wells Fargo delivered such exceptional performance in our first full quarter as the New Wells Fargo, despite the challenging environment.

First, let's start with all of the important record results we achieved in the quarter. We earned record net income of $3.05 billion in the quarter. Profits were $767 million higher after tax than any previous quarter in our Company's history. Profits for the quarter were a record, even after $661 million in preferred dividends, with net income available to common shareholders of $2.38 billion.

We earned $21 billion in combined revenue, driven by 16% year-over-year growth at legacy Wells Fargo, to record quarterly revenue of $12.3 billion. Our organic revenue growth this quarter was driven by the same Wells Fargo business model that has consistently produced near double-digit revenue growth for at least the last decade.

The consistency of our revenue growth is also due to the fact that we did not participate in most of the problematic businesses and activities that have reduced the level and stability of revenue at many of our peers. As our peers are busy dealing with the problems from these activities and with replacing the lost revenue, we have been successfully gaining customers and market share that will add to revenue and earnings well into the future.

Pre-tax pre-provision profit of $9.2 billion was a record and exceeded net chargeoffs by nearly $6 billion, demonstrating Wells Fargo's capacity to produce revenue net of expenses that provides a substantial earnings and capital cushion even if credit costs remain cyclically high.

Our Company continued to benefit from the very strong mortgage environment. We originated $101 billion of mortgage loans, our highest level since 2003, including a record application month of $83 billion in March. While low interest rates are stimulating mortgage demand, we are picking up mortgage market share. Our mortgage originations doubled in the first quarter from the prior quarter, compared with an average increase of about half that among our large peers.

We generated record sales at legacy Wells Fargo, including record Regional Banking core product sales of 6.7 million, up 17% and growth in consumer checking accounts up a net 6.8%.

This sales performance helped produce record retail cross-sell of 5.8 products and wholesale cross-sell of 6.4 products in the first quarter at legacy Wells Fargo. One of the reasons for acquiring Wachovia was to apply this cross-sell competency to Wachovia's customer base in Wachovia's footprint. Overall, we estimate that Wachovia's cross-sell is currently roughly three-quarters that of Wells Fargo. The revenue synergies from increasing Wachovia's cross-sell offer huge opportunities for future revenue and profit growth.

Wachovia continued to lead the industry in service quality in the first quarter. In February, Wachovia was once again recognized by the American Customer Satisfaction Index for being Number 1 in customer service among large peers for the eighth year in a row. As we have said since the time of the merger announcement, this is an area where there is great opportunity for Wells Fargo to leverage Wachovia's proven expertise, to better serve our customers throughout our franchise.

We posted a net interest margin of 4.16%, the best among large bank peers, which averaged 3.1%. Wells Fargo has always had among the highest net interest margins, whereas Wachovia's was generally closer to the industry average. Despite the expected NIM reduction mathematically caused by the combination of our two companies, the fact that we are still best in class is a testament to our business model and the strength of legacy Wells Fargo's NIM level.

Our higher margin reflects many factors, but most notably is due to the sizable base of noninterest bearing and low-cost checking and savings accounts in our overall deposit mix. We now have a much broader geographic footprint, with the ability to attract deposits not only through our traditional banking and mortgage businesses, but now through our nationwide retail brokerage platform.

We aligned deposit pricing across Wells Fargo and Wachovia at the beginning of this year, and we are seeing better deposit performance -- at Wells Fargo interest rates -- than we had originally assumed. During the quarter, $34 billion of high-rate CDs from Wachovia matured, and we retained over $19 billion of these deposits in lower-cost checking and saving accounts, in addition to lower-rate CDs.

Of the Wachovia CD customers we did not retain, over half were non-relationship, CD-only customers from whom we were less likely to generate future cross-sell opportunities. While we will continue to see the Wachovia high-rate CDs mature, this early experience gives us greater confidence in our ability to retain balances at lower rates as well as build business with customers interested in long-term relationships.

We continued to manage expenses in a disciplined fashion. Our combined first-quarter efficiency ratio of 56% was roughly in line with legacy Wells Fargo's prior ratios, even though legacy Wachovia had a higher-cost structure given its business mix and the effect of higher-payout businesses like retail brokerage and asset management. This cost management success helps demonstrate our commitment to tight expense discipline even as we incur merger-related expenses.

As previously indicated, we expect to achieve $5 billion of annual run rate savings from consolidations and additional savings from expense initiatives during the remainder of 2009.

The record earnings in the quarter were driven by the same factors that have consistently produced profit at Wells Fargo -- a track record of profitable sales growth and industry-leading operating margins. The first-quarter results were a great example of the power of operating a diversified business model, as Wells Fargo has successfully done for many years. We have over 80 businesses pulling the stagecoach, as we say.

In the financial services sector money never declines; it just moves, based on customer and economic life cycles. By successfully operating a diversified business model, we make sure that we are there to meet all of our customers' needs as money moves through those cycles. Some examples of this in the first quarter include the following.

We helped 450,000 customers finance a mortgage. This is almost double the number of customers who did so with us only a quarter ago. While lower interest rates helped increase demand, the near-record increase in mortgage originations was produced by thousands of Wells Fargo mortgage specialists working with homeowners across the United States, including over 5,000 operations team members hired to process the volume increase.

For those customers who refinanced, they will have more money in their pockets each month, which will benefit them and the overall economy. In that case, we are there to help them with transaction-oriented products, like credit and debit cards.

While first-quarter results reflected the strength in the origination side of the mortgage business in a low-rate environment, the value and earnings from our $2.1 trillion servicing portfolio would normally be expected to increase if originations were to slow down in a higher-rate environment. That balance is by design, not by accident.

Our origination and servicing businesses tend to be natural off-sets, and our origination revenues and mortgage servicing rights value move accordingly, as they did this quarter. During the first quarter, mortgage interest rates declined; prepayment speeds went up; and refinancing increased.

As a result, we wrote down our MSR servicing asset -- the ratio of loans serviced for others -- during the first quarter to 74 basis points, the lowest level of capitalized servicing since the last refinancing boom in 2003. The MSR asset writedown accurately reflects the market conditions and future prepayment expectations and, as previously mentioned, is counter-cyclical to our origination business.

Given the uncertainty in this economy, some consumers are spending less and saving more. Our diversified model, with its expanded national banking and retail brokerage platforms, helped us benefit from this shift as we increased deposits from our existing customers at legacy Wells Fargo and through new customer growth throughout our franchise, both contributing to our increase in total core deposits of $10.8 billion in the quarter.

Also, consumer checking accounts were up a net 6.2% for the overall Company, and up a net 6.8% at legacy Wells Fargo.

California continued to be the fastest-growing state for legacy Wells Fargo deposits, with record consumer checking accounts up a net 8.9%, over 40% above the rate at which accounts grew on average across Wells Fargo's coast-to-coast markets. Again this demonstrates the benefit of our powerful presence in this important market and the benefit of our geographic diversification.

Trading revenues this quarter were $787 million. Wells Fargo has always managed a customer-centric capital markets and foreign exchange business, a business where volumes actually expand during periods of market turmoil, especially for highly-rated counterparties like Wells Fargo.

This platform is managed very differently than large investments banks and large commercial banks with international investment banking and capital markets platforms. We are not dependent on proprietary trading-type activities, but instead are focused on providing solutions to customers that enables us to earn fees while limiting our risk-taking activities.

We offer products like interest rate protection, foreign exchange services, and access to the capital markets, all with a relationship perspective. Demand for these types of services increase during periods of market volatility, as it did in first quarter.

Meeting these needs has always been a core, profitable activity at Wells Fargo; and the addition of the capabilities of the Wachovia team members and customer base only expanded this revenue opportunity. Roughly two-thirds of the $787 million trading revenue this quarter was from meeting those customer needs. The remaining one-third related largely to positions designed to hedge portfolio risk and other proprietary positions, many of which were unwound during the quarter.

There are obviously many other examples, but the point is that our diversified model is designed to produce revenue and earnings in all economic environments, as it did this quarter.

The power of this diversified business model is even greater now, after the Wachovia merger. With Wachovia we have doubled the customer base where we can apply the Wells Fargo model. We now serve one in three US households, and we began cross-selling to Wachovia customers, including mortgages in the first quarter.

Wachovia's product set also creates new opportunities for us and helps to diversify further our revenue and earnings sources. For example, trust and investment management fees in first quarter were approximately 11% of combined total revenues, compared with 5% at legacy Wells Fargo. During the first quarter as a combined company, Wachovia has exceeded our expectations, contributing 41% of our combined revenues.

Let me now turn to credit. In connection with the Wachovia merger at year-end, we were required under GAAP to identify and write down Wachovia's higher-risk loan portfolios. We identified various loan portfolios that we considered impaired, which initially totaled approximately $94 billion, or roughly 20% of Wachovia's loans.

We initially wrote them down by $37.2 billion through purchase accounting adjustments directly to equity, representing our best estimate of the losses in these portfolios over their remaining estimated lives. In general, those pools had loss probabilities of at least 70%. In the future, unless there is a future deterioration that might cause our estimates of the loss content to change, there should not be a P&L charge for credit losses on this entire portfolio, since all the estimated chargeoffs over the estimated life of those loans were already taken at the December 31, 2008, close.

In the first quarter of 2009, as required under purchase accounting, we refined our preliminary purchase accounting adjustments based on additional information regarding the portfolios and the environment at year-end. This review resulted in a $2.8 billion increase in the estimated life of loan credit losses on the impaired portfolio, due to an increase in the size of the pool of loans subject to purchase accounting writedowns and some deterioration in the impaired portfolio.

This was largely offset by a $1.8 billion increase in expected cash flows on the impaired portfolio, due to the increase in size of the portfolio combined with higher expected payments and earlier expected resolutions.

As a result of writing down Wachovia's highest risk portfolios and assuming no further deterioration, we believe that the remaining balance of the impaired portfolio, with $58 billion in total, had virtually no remaining loss content at year-end. To repeat -- the estimated life of loan loss content related to the designated impaired portfolio was removed from our balance sheet at year-end; and we are confident that as long as there is no additional deteriorations, future losses have been eliminated.

Lastly, by definition, the non-impaired portfolio of Wachovia loans, about $375 billion in balances, represent loans with an average probability of default substantially lower than the loans that were written down at close. Any provision for chargeoffs in this portfolio will be expensed to the income statement, as usual.

While the non-impaired Wachovia loan portfolios have lower risk, they do not have zero risk, of course. We expect losses in the non-impaired portfolios to increase over a period of time as new losses emerge before recoveries occur. Overall, the remainder of these non-impaired Wachovia loans should experience lower loss rates over the cycle than most broadly mixed loan portfolios, because the rest of Wachovia's loan portfolios that were not already written down by definition have much lower loss content.

Nonperforming loans increased $3.7 billion from year-end, about half of the increase in nonperforming loans at Wells Fargo and Wachovia in the fourth quarter. The ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans increased 46 basis points from year-end, about a third less than the average NPL increase of 63 basis points among our large peers.

The increase from year-end was not a surprise to us and in part reflects the fact that as a result of purchase accounting writedowns Wachovia's nonperforming loans were only $97 million at year-end. At March 31, 2009, the ratio of nonperforming loans to total loans was 1.25%, the lowest ratio among our large peers.

It's important to remember that not all nonperforming loans or nonperforming assets result in a loss. More than 90% of first quarter's $12.6 billion in nonperforming assets is secured. We also create nonperforming assets when we take actions to keep people in their homes -- a process ultimately beneficial to the residential real estate market.

We have been at work for some time reducing higher-risk loans at both companies. Approximately $119 billion of consumer loans within the combined loan portfolio represent loans where we have exited the business or are running off old portfolios. These would include legacy Wells Fargo indirect auto, a portfolio we began reducing nearly two years ago; indirect home equity, which we also exited almost two years ago; Pick-a-Pay option loans, which Wachovia stopped originating early last year and which was subject to purchase accounting writedowns and has benefited from our success in modifying loans.

Additionally we are focused on further reducing certain higher-risk portions of Wachovia's commercial real estate division's portfolio. In total, these portfolios have been reduced $45 billion or about 21% since June 30, 2008, through writedown, runoff, or modification, including a $4.5 billion reduction in the first quarter.

Because we have been reducing credit exposure for some of these higher-risk portfolios, growth in loan losses will be more moderate than would otherwise be the case, and the peak in our credit losses would be expected to occur earlier.

In addition to the reduction in these higher-risk, non-strategic loan portfolios, trading assets were also reduced by $8.4 billion in the first quarter.

The first-quarter allowance for credit losses totaled $23 billion, including a $1.3 billion credit reserve build. Our $23 billion credit reserve was 2.9% of total non-impaired loans, and over 2 times non-accrual loans. Our allowance is $10 billion higher than our first-quarter chargeoffs annualized.

The allowance covers 12 months of estimated losses for all consumer portfolios and at least 24 months of estimated losses for all commercial and commercial real estate portfolios. The allowance coverage considers the current economic environment; the impact of our de-risking; and the performance of the non-impaired loan balances. It also incorporates expectations on both nonperforming assets and chargeoffs over the coverage period being measured.

So, there are two key take-aways from a credit perspective. First, the actions we took at the close of the Wachovia acquisition to write down all higher-risk assets significantly improved the risk profile of the Company's loan and securities portfolios relative to what it would have been and relative to our large bank peers as we entered 2009.

Second, our $23 billion credit reserve fully took into account expected economic deterioration through March 31, 2009, and as just stated, fully covered 12 months of projected losses on all consumer portfolios and at least 24 months on all commercial and commercial real estate portfolios for both banks. Our reserve adequacy analysis reflects estimated losses that will emerge on both performing and nonperforming loans.

Let me conclude with a few important remarks about capital. Our total common equity ratio, or TCE ratio, at March 31 was 3.28%, up from 2.86% a quarter ago. During the quarter, tangible common equity reached $41 billion, up $4.5 billion from December 31, 2008. About $1 billion of the increase was from retained earnings and $3.3 billion was from improvement in Other Comprehensive Incomes, including improvements in markets as well as a $2.8 billion after-tax improvement in Other Comprehensive Income related to FSP FAS 157-4. As described in our press release, FSP FAS 157-4 had no material impact on earnings in the quarter.

Our reported TCE of 3.28%, as well as TCE to risk-weighted assets of 3.83%, also includes the up-front writedowns charged to equity related to Wachovia's impaired loan portfolio. The $40 billion of SOP 03-3 nonaccretable difference from the Wachovia merger is the equivalent of approximately 190 basis points of additional tangible common equity.

It is important to recognize that purchase accounting writedowns do not permanently reduce capital ratios. While capital is initially reduced, TCE will eventually rise to exactly where it would have been had the chargeoff been accounted for over time instead of all up-front.

Stated differently, by taking the writedowns right away, earnings going forward will be higher than would have been the case if the chargeoffs were provided for out of earnings each quarter. The negative of purchase accounting writedowns is that it reduces capital right away; the benefit is that future earnings may be higher, more reliable, and less volatile.

More importantly, comparing point-in-time capital ratios among companies does not take into account the rate at which a company may be organically building capital. Stated differently, we believe a company that is building capital through retained earnings at a high and consistent rate -- like Wells Fargo -- is a more strongly capitalized bank than a bank with the same point-in-time capital ratios that is losing money or has volatile earnings.

There are at least three significant and unique factors that drive Wells Fargo's internal capital generation. First and foremost, our diversified business model and better operating margins have produced above-peer revenue growth. As indicated earlier, pre-tax pre-provision profit in the first quarter was $9.2 billion, almost $6 billion higher than quarterly chargeoffs.

Second, the Wachovia acquisition will produce meaningful synergies that will further enhance internal capital generation. While our eyes are clearly wide open about taking on more assets at a time when the economic environment is weak, revenue synergies are already emerging and could be substantial, just as they were upon the combination of Wells Fargo and Norwest; and we expect $5 billion of annual expense savings from the completion of the integration, which will begin to emerge starting in the second quarter of this year.

And finally, as previously indicated, we have already taken significant risk out of the Company's combined loan portfolio and balance sheet, which should moderate credit losses going forward and lead to an earlier peak than would otherwise be the case. While it is too early to call a turn in credit -- and indeed credit could worsen before it eventually improves -- once credit does clearly turn, the potential return of capital embedded in the allowance for credit losses could be substantial.

As we have said, the best way to grow capital is to earn it, and that is what we are focused on throughout the Company. With the recently announced 85% reduction in our common stock dividend, even more of our earnings will be retained starting in the second quarter. The dividend reduction itself is the equivalent of adding about $5 billion in capital each year through earnings.

In summary, it has truly been a remarkable quarter for our Company. Our diversified business model drove a record $3 billion in profit for shareholders and demonstrated once again an ability to create sustainable growth through all cycles -- very much what we have been telling you throughout this credit crisis.

While of course we still operate in a challenging economic environment, it is worth repeating some of our accomplishments this quarter. Record legacy Wells Fargo revenue, up 16%. Record pre-tax pre-provision profit of $9.2 billion. Our best mortgage origination quarter since 2003. Industry-leading net interest margin of 4.16%. 31% growth annualized in consumer checking and savings deposits. Higher capital ratios and strengthened reserves. And significant credit extended to US taxpayers.

The New Wells Fargo is off to a very powerful start. Thank you for your interest in our Company. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523, or Jim Rowe, Associate Director, at 415-396-8216.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
CQ Transcriptions, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090506e54m000p1
  


 HD
 Q4  2008 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-recorded Conference Call - Final
   WC
7,920 words
   PD
28 January 2009
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
Copyright 2009 by ASC Partners, LLC. All rights reserved.   

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.

   TD
BOB STRICKLAND, IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter 2008 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we discuss our fourth-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In this call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including generally statements about future credit quality and losses and the expected financial and other benefits and opportunities of the Wachovia merger, including assumed cost saves, revenue synergies, internal rate of return and GAAP earnings accretion and specifically statements that the risk reduction or de-risking actions taken in the fourth quarter will reduce the likelihood of future losses, that the acquisition of Wachovia will add significantly to the Wells Fargo earnings run rate upon full integration, that we expect the additional revenue opportunities from adding long-term loans and securities during the current credit cycle to last longer than the higher charge-offs because of the duration of the loans and securities, that as we reduce the higher risk and lower return assets of Wachovia, we expect the combined net interest margin to move somewhat toward the Wells Fargo historic standalone margin, that we are on track for similar or higher, more (inaudible) application volume for the first quarter of 2009 compared with the fourth quarter 2008, that as customers refinance their mortgage at par, we expect to recoup some of the mortgage warehouse write-downs, that we believe the combined Wells Fargo/Wachovia platform provides us with the ability to generate profitable growth that until home prices stabilize we continue to expect higher losses in the home equity portfolio, that we feel good about our financial assumptions.

The forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our fourth-quarter results and the slides that accompany these prerecorded comments. Also refer to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC into the information incorporated into these documents.

John Stumpf, our CEO, will provide some concluding comments, but first Howard Atkins, our CFO, will review the Company's financial performance. A slide presentation is available to go along with Howard's comments. Howard?

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, Bob. 2008 was a year in which the financial landscape was fundamentally reshaped. The environment in which Wells Fargo operates continued to be challenging in the fourth quarter and if anything, became even more difficult with the unexpected, abrupt and sharp decline in economic activity late in the quarter. Our fourth-quarter results were impacted by the economy and dysfunctional markets. In some cases, like higher charge-offs, adversely impacted and in other cases, like higher mortgage applications, positively impacted.

In addition, we took numerous actions in the fourth quarter to reduce the risk, or as we like to say derisk, the combined new balance sheet in preparation for the Wachovia acquisition. While some of these actions adversely impacted fourth-quarter earnings, this derisking will reduce the likelihood of losses in the future, improving the level and consistency of our performance going forward.

To put the fourth quarter in context, I would like to cover several topics. First, the fourth quarter represented a continuation of the same profitable growth in lending and deposit gathering that Wells Fargo has always been successful at and which, if anything, accelerated since the start of the credit crisis in mid-2007.

Second, I will go over with you the balance sheet actions we took in the fourth quarter of 2008 to prepare for the next exciting stage of our growth, the acquisition of Wachovia, which will create the premier coast-to-coast financial services organization and which we continue to believe will add significantly to the Wells Fargo earnings run rate upon full integration.

I will then go over fourth-quarter results and how the actions taken in the fourth quarter to derisk the balance sheet impacted fourth-quarter earnings and the resultant capital position of the new company. And I will conclude with color on credit quality and various key loan portfolios of the two banks that have now come together.

Wells Fargo is a diversified growth company that has always focused on providing a full range of financial services to all customers -- consumers, small businesses, middle market commercial and large corporations. While many other banks, and almost every other large bank, retrenched from lending since the start of the credit crisis, Wells Fargo has remained open for business, providing over half of $1 trillion in mortgage originations and new loan commitments to our consumer and commercial customers. And on a net basis, increasing on our balance sheet over $119 billion in loans and securities by year-end 2008.

The opposite was the case during the irrational exuberance of 2006 to 2007 when asset spreads were at all-time lows and were not priced for risk. At that time, our asset levels were relatively flat, in fact, declining in 2006, while other financial institutions were leveraging their companies, in some cases, growing by double-digit rates at low or no economic return.

We were building our capital in that period, waiting for the dam to break and it sure did. We were also prepared to lose marketshare and in fact, we lost, for example, mortgage marketshare in that period because we maintained our disciplined lending standards throughout that period.

In the last 1.5 years as others needed to retrench, Wells Fargo accelerated its growth, taking marketshare in our chosen markets, increasing the number of households and businesses we serve and actively working to build relationships that will last forever.

Wells Fargo's growth in average earning assets, adjusted for acquisitions of 25% from the beginning of the credit crisis through year-end 2008, was the highest among our large bank peers and also the highest among the top nine peers in the United States.

In terms of just loans, Wells Fargo's acquisition adjusted 22% growth was the highest among our peers. Keep in mind that while Wells Fargo has been fully extending new credit, we were simultaneously reducing high-risk loans, including exiting indirect channels, tightening credit standards and pricing for risk. For example, our home equity portfolio was essentially flat and our auto portfolios reduced during the same period. Essentially, we have been reducing higher risk transactional lending as we have been expanding business with our customers.

In addition to increasing earning assets at a double-digit rate since the start of the credit crisis, we also increased deposits at a double-digit rate over this same period, up 13% adjusted for acquisitions, well above the peer group averages while having the lowest average cost of deposits among our peers.

With the Wachovia acquisition, Wells Fargo has an 11.2% deposit marketshare, essentially tied for the highest in the nation with what is arguably the best distribution system across the country based on June 2008 deposits updated for subsequent acquisitions. As we indicated previously, Wachovia has roughly half of Wells Fargo's core deposits, even though they are roughly the same size as Wells Fargo. We look forward to working with the Wachovia salespeople to increase the base of core deposits in their region, as well as increasing cross-sell to existing Wachovia depositors.

As we have consistently provided credit to our customers throughout the credit crisis, we continue to grow and build the franchise in the fourth quarter of 2008. In the fourth quarter, we extended $22 billion in new loan commitments, originated $50 billion in new residential mortgages and took $116 billion in new mortgage applications. We ended the year with a $71 billion unclosed pipeline, our largest pipeline since the second quarter of 2005.

Core deposits increased 31% annualized linked quarter. Net new consumer checking accounts, once again, exceeded 6% annual growth as has been the case every quarter since the third quarter of 2005. Our net new consumer checking growth in California exceeded our overall growth rate. For the fourth quarter, California grew at an 8.3% rate, up from a 6.5% average for the prior four quarters, which we believe to be evidence of both our relationship-driven strategy and a continuation of a flight to safety in the industry.

We are also pleased to note that Wachovia's core deposits resumed growth in the four quarter following the merger announcement with Wells Fargo, increasing 10% unannualized from the trough early in the quarter and increasing across all customer segments. Both consumer and commercial depositors returned to Wachovia during the quarter.

As recently reported in the Wall Street Journal, most of our large bank peers shrank loans in the fourth quarter. Wells Fargo increased lending in the fourth quarter at a 10% annualized linked quarter growth rate, one of the few large banks in the country to actually increase loans.

The result of consistently extending credit and building our franchise shows up in our accelerated top-line growth. A metric such as pretax pre-provision profit -- in other words, growth in revenue net of expenses -- is relevant because it demonstrates the underlying earnings power of the franchise each year and over the long term, apart from the up-and-down impact of the credit cycle.

Wells Fargo has typically grown pretax pre-provision earnings at least 10% per year except for 2006 when we were deliberately shrinking our balance sheet because we weren't getting paid enough to hold assets. As spreads have widened significantly during the credit crisis, we have been able to accelerate growth at wider margins and consequently, pretax pre-provision profit growth last year accelerated to 18%.

Relative to our peers, we have had the highest and most consistent growth in top-line revenue net of expense growth over either one-year or five-year time periods. Adjusted for acquisitions, none of the large peers had positive pretax pre-provision growth last year. Our relative performance is due to our faster loan and deposit growth, as well as the fact that we have not had the revenue losses that all of our peers have had in connection with problems from covenant-lite leverage lending, structured investments, proprietary trading or market-making in subprime or exotic securities because we have never had material exposure to those activities.

Our solid pretax pre-provision profit growth is largely fueled by strong revenue growth. In addition, we have grown revenues at a faster rate than expenses, creating positive operating leverage. In 2008, Wells Fargo grew revenues by 6.1% organically, while reducing our expenses by 2%. None of our large bank competitors had positive operating leverage last year, adjusted for significant acquisitions.

Our pretax pre-provision performance has been driven in large part by strong growth in net interest income. For 2008, net interest income growth was 20%, driven by both 17% earning asset growth and our industry-leading net interest margin, 4.83% for the year. Net interest income grew to $6.7 billion in the fourth quarter, up 23% year-over-year with the margin widening further to 4.9%.

While the credit cycle is producing higher credit costs, the same external environment has produced numerous opportunities to add attractively priced, long-term loans and securities for those banks that have had the capacity and origination systems to do so like Wells Fargo. In the last year, our growth in net interest income from expanding our balance sheet $4.2 billion has essentially covered the additional charge-offs we have incurred in the same period. In effect, the opportunities from the credit cycle have offset pre-reserved [build] credit costs cumulatively in the last 18 months. While credit costs could remain high or elevated for a period of time, we would expect the additional revenue to last even longer given the duration of some of these assets.

One of the reasons we have been able to grow net interest income at above peer rates is because our net interest margin has consistently been one of the highest among our peers. In 2008, our net interest margin was 4.83%, rising to 4.9% in the fourth quarter, generally around 200 basis points above margins earned by other large competitors.

Note that Wachovia's standalone net interest margin has been closer to the other large peers shown in slide 15. As a result, the net interest margin of our consolidated organization will by definition be lower than Wells Fargo's standalone margin. Although the combined margin of the two banks in the fourth quarter 2008 would still have been higher than any large peer.

As we integrate Wachovia and reduce its higher risk/lower return assets over time, we expect to move the combined margin somewhat towards Wells Fargo's historically higher standalone margin. Keep in mind that while mathematically lower than Wells Fargo's standalone, the new company's margin will be associated with nearly twice as many assets as Wells Fargo's standalone margin, benefiting net interest income.

The main reason for Wells Fargo's high standalone net interest margin is not only better long-term asset yield, but more importantly our lower cost of deposits than the peers. At 0.91% in the fourth quarter of 2008, our average deposit costs, $368 billion of our average deposits, remained lower than our peers, typically 25 to 50 basis points lower than our large peers on our entire base of deposits.

The primary reason for this is the proportionately higher percentage of non-interest-bearing and low interest demand and savings accounts and the mix of total deposits that we have accumulated and maintained over many years of successful cross-selling and relationship building, as well as our ability to attract interest-bearing deposits for our extensive store networks at lower cost than the competitors. We have already begun to conform Wachovia's deposit rates to Wells Fargo's in their geographic markets and so far, deposit retention rates at Wachovia have exceeded our expectations.

Our overall growth pattern continued into the fourth quarter. Let me describe the drivers in each of our main business lines. Regional banking had strong sales growth and cross-sell reflecting the continued focus on our vision of satisfying all our customers' financial needs and helping them succeed financially in all economic environments. Regional banking had core product sales of $5.3 million in the fourth quarter, up 12% from the fourth quarter of 2007. These sales results benefited from better penetration of Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products, such as a debit card, credit card and savings account. Package sales were up 33% from the fourth quarter of 2007, purchased by 75% of [longer] checking account customers, up from 70% a year ago.

Through acquisitions, not including Wachovia and internal growth, we added nearly 410,000 net new retail bank households in 2008, up 4%. Retail banking households have a record 5.73 products with Wells Fargo, up from 5.53 a year ago and up from around 3 at the time of the Norwest/Wells Fargo merger 10 years ago. 24% of our retail bank households had eight or more products, our long-term goal.

Lower consumer spending in the fourth quarter impacted card fees and purchase volume. On Wells Fargo consumer credit cards, purchase volume was down 2% from the fourth quarter of 2007 and down 4% on a linked quarter basis. Debit card purchase volume was up 3% from the fourth quarter of 2007, but down slightly on a linked quarter basis.

We continue to have strong debit and credit card penetration of our retail bank households. 38% of Wells Fargo's retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 27% five years ago and 92% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 86% five years ago. Wachovia had much lower credit card penetration of 11%, providing a natural growth opportunity for our card business in the future.

Declining mortgage rates resulted in a surge in applications, $116 billion for the quarter, up 40% from the third quarter. While 68% of applications during the quarter were for refis, almost $40 billion in new mortgage applications for purchased homes were taken in the quarter. Application volume for the month of December was the fourth highest month on record in what is traditionally a seasonally slow period for the industry. And application volume during the first 14 business days of January have already exceeded those of the full month in January 2008 and indicates we are on track for similar or better application volumes than in the fourth quarter.

The mortgage pipeline ended the quarter at $71 billion, including $5 billion from Wachovia, up from $41 billion at the end of the third quarter and the largest pipeline since the second quarter of 2005.

Our total residential servicing portfolio grew 21% from a year ago to $1.8 trillion, including $271 billion from Wachovia. Reflecting the continued stress in the housing market, the foreclosure rate for the servicing portfolio continued to increase to 1.41% at quarter-end, but which we believe was still better than the industry average.

We continue to work closely with customers who face financial difficulties. Through repayment plans, modifications and other loss mitigation options, we have delivered more than 143,000 solutions to customers in the fourth quarter alone. In 2008, we provided over 498,000 solutions to customers. We're working with government agencies, Hope Now and others and have led the industry in the development of programs for approximately 3 million at-risk customers to avoid foreclosure.

Also, just this week, we announced the expansion of our Leading the Way Home program, which offers solutions to prevent foreclosures. By expanding our efforts to Wachovia, approximately 470,000 customers, including those with Pick-a-Pay loans, will have access to the program if they face payment challenges.

Through our active communication programs, Wells Fargo Home Mortgage has reached 94% of its customers who are two or more payments past due. For every 10 of these customers, we have worked with seven on a solution, two declined help and one could not be reached. Of those who received the loan modification, one year later, approximately seven of every 10 were either current or less than 90 days past due.

Mortgage non-interest income in the fourth quarter included a $413 million write-down due to additions to the repurchase reserve and a write-down of aged mortgage warehouse loans due to spread widening on limited quotes in the secondary market. As customers refi at par old mortgages we are holding in the warehouse, we expect to recoup some of that write-down. The impact of interest rates on origination and servicing non-interest income was a net positive of $7 million, reflecting a net valuation loss of $346 million on MSRs net of hedges, a $328 million loss due to the impact of interest rate changes on the pipeline warehouse values net of hedge results, which was reported in mortgage origination gains, offset by $681 million in net gains on debt securities that were hedging the MSRs reported in gains on debt securities available for sale.

We also had strong sales during the quarter in business banking with store-based sales to our small-business customers up 23% compared to fourth quarter 2007. Business banking households have a cross-sell of 3.61 products per household. Sales of Wells Fargo business services packages, which include a business checking account and at least three other business products, such as a business debit card, credit card or business loan or line of credit, were up 36% in the fourth quarter and were purchased by a record 51% of new business checking account customers.

Our Wealth Management group, serving our high net worth customers, achieved 10% revenue growth and 20% growth of pretax pre-provision profit from the fourth quarter 2007. Net income was negatively impacted by a charge-off of $294 million pretax related to clients who were impacted by the Madoff fraud. Average core deposits were up $7 billion, or 40% from a year ago and increased 32% annualized from the third quarter of 2008. Wealth Management customers continue to place a premium on safety and quality when choosing where to place their financial assets.

Private banking, serving our highest net worth customers, grew revenue by over 50% from the fourth quarter of 2007. In the fourth quarter, private banking grew average core deposits by 38% and average loans by 27% compared to the fourth quarter of 2007. WellsTrade, our online brokerage service, had double-digit revenue and net income doubled and continue to attract and retain customers with account levels up 12% from last year.

Our wholesale and commercial banking business, which serves primarily middle-market customers and large corporate markets from coast-to-coast, continued to have strong loan and deposit growth as Wells Fargo has remained open for business during a time when others have pulled back or exited from commercial lending.

Wholesale Banking's average loans increased 30% from the fourth quarter of 2007 as we continue to have more opportunities to increase business with new and existing customers and improved credit spreads and with better structures. Loan growth was broad-based across many of our commercial businesses, including double-digit growth in asset-based lending, middle-market lending, commercial real estate and specialized financial services, which includes our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies.

Wholesale Banking's average core deposits grew 18% from the fourth quarter last year and 26% from the third quarter. This growth was strong in both interest-bearing and non-interest-bearing deposits, reflecting the benefit from a flight to quality and the continued success of our relationship-based model and national presence. By continuing to focus on our relationship model, Wholesale Banking increased cross-sell to a record 6.4 products per customer relationship, up from 6.1 products a year ago. Our middle-market customers now have 7.8 products per relationship and US corporate banking, serving Fortune 500 companies, has an average cross-sell of 7.6 products per relationship.

This relationship focus will remain at the center of the integration of the wholesale businesses in the merger with Wachovia. The increased scale in many products will benefit customers across the country. For example, in our mutual fund business, Wells Fargo increased its rank from 18th a year ago to 14th in the fourth quarter and including the combination with Wachovia's Evergreen funds, we ranked 11th at year-end with a total of $254.5 billion in fund balances.

Our recently closed acquisition of Wachovia is the next important stage of Wells Fargo's continued growth. On a combined basis, we now operate what we believe to be the nation's premier coast-to-coast financial services franchise. This status is achieved by both the physical reach of our Company, as well as through the leading presence we have in key lending deposit and brokerage activities across the country. We firmly believe that this platform provides us with the ability to generate profitable growth for our shareholders in much the same way our prior pre-acquisition business did for decades.

We are now the number one in the United States in community banking presence, small-business lending, middle-market commercial banking, agricultural lending, commercial real estate lending, commercial real estate brokerage and bank-owned insurance brokerage. We are the number two in banking of deposits in the United States, home mortgage originations and home mortgage servicing, retail brokerage and debit card.

Although we just closed the acquisition on December 31, our integration efforts have been underway since the deal was announced and we are on or ahead of schedule in most key areas of our merger. For example, our updated analysis throughout the fourth quarter of Wachovia's loan portfolios reconfirmed our comfort with the prior credit assumptions. A senior leadership structure is now in place, our respective teams have been exceptionally active in combining best practices to provide the best possible service to our expanded customer base and all major operating system decisions have now been made. All in all, we are very pleased with our progress and if anything, are only more confident in the value of this merger.

From an expense standpoint, approximately $74 million of merger and integration expenses have been taken through Wells Fargo's earnings in the fourth quarter and a preliminary $199 million of expenses were taken from purchase accounting adjustments at the time of the merger. We are pleased with the progress Wachovia is making in returning to the business of lending to its retail and commercial customers and building deposits, which were up 10% unannualized since the early fourth-quarter trough.

The efforts made by Wachovia to reduce asset risk prior to the actual merger exceeded our initial expectations. Through a combination of asset write-downs, sales of investment and trading securities and reductions in higher-risk lending, Wachovia made great progress toward reducing exposures on nonrelationship portfolios that Wells Fargo has indicated will not be part of the long-term business mix in the new company. In the process, reducing loans, securities, trading assets and loans held for sale by $115.2 billion, or 17%, since the June 30, 2008, almost entirely in the fourth quarter.

The asset runoff under way at Wachovia was part of an overall effort to de-risk the two companies in preparation for the merger in order to reduce the potential losses that might have detracted from earnings growth going forward. The principal de-risking action was to identify and segregate what turned out to be $93.9 billion of higher-risk loans on Wachovia's balance sheet and impair those loans through purchase accounting adjustments at close for the $37.2 billion of estimated life of loan losses.

This is roughly consistent with our initial expectations, and differs only in part because some of the originally estimated life of loan losses were already charged off in the fourth quarter of 2008 or essentially provided for in Wachovia's reserve build instead of purchase accounting as the mix of loans between impaired and non-impaired was ultimately finalized.

Both Wachovia and Wells Fargo incurred costs in the fourth quarter related to credit derisking. In addition to the $37.2 billion of credit marks on high-risk Wachovia loans which were taken as purchase accounting adjustments, Wachovia recorded through its earnings a $1.2 billion provision for fourth-quarter charge-offs in its Pick-a-Pay portfolio, largely for the pool of loans subsequently identified as high risk at close, and a $4.2 billion credit reserve build.

Wells Fargo built reserves by $3.9 billion in the fourth quarter to conform both banks' reserve practices to the more conservative of the two banks, and also added $1.7 billion in reserves for projected credit deterioration.

Apart from the $37.2 billion credit write-down for impaired loans at Wachovia, the other items were charged to the respective earnings of the two banks. Each bank had a number of other significant items, including write-downs of securities and loans, as well as merger and integration expenses. As a result, Wells Fargo reported a $2.5 billion loss in the fourth quarter. While we were disappointed to have reported a loss, the quarter included numerous derisking and merger-related items amounting to $6.9 billion pretax, including the $3.9 billion provision to conform reserve practices to the most conservative of each company and $1.7 billion of additional credit reserve build, a $413 million write-down of loans in the mortgage warehouse and additions to the mortgage repurchase reserve, $473 million of other-than-temporary impairment securities write-downs, $294 million of net charge-offs related to the Madoff fraud and $74 million of merger-related costs.

Had Wachovia remained a standalone company, it would have reported a loss of $11.2 billion in the fourth quarter, which included a $2.8 billion deferred tax asset write-down. Wachovia also had numerous significant items during the quarter, including a reserve build of $4.2 billion and market disruption losses of $4.3 billion. The Company's results were also dampened by the effect of declining market values on the market-sensitive business model. Underlying business trends at Wachovia began to recover as we neared the second half of the quarter and we may remain excited about the opportunities that still exist.

Wachovia did see positive business trends throughout its consumer and commercial businesses as the customer base stabilized and deposit and checking accounts began to grow again and new customer acquisition metrics remain positive. Each major business segment at Wachovia experienced positive deposit growth, including retail, commercial, wealth clients, brokerage and cash management during the quarter.

Additionally, in the markets-oriented businesses, such as retail brokerage, sales of traditional banking products were up and net inflows to Wachovia funds were up $1.4 billion in the fourth quarter versus a net outflow of $11.7 billion in the previous third quarter. Finally, net exposure in the investment bank to subprime, CMBS and leveraged loan assets ended the quarter down 85% from the prior year.

Tier 1 capital was $86.4 billion at December 31, 2008 after the impact of derisking the balance sheet for credit impairments of loans and write-downs of negative cumulative other comprehensive income at Wachovia, which in the aggregate reduced the Tier 1 capital ratio of the combined organization by approximately 230 basis points to 7.9% at year-end, still well above regulatory minimums for a well-capitalized bank, even after the derisking actions.

Another metric sometimes used to assess capital strength is the combination of Tier 1 capital and the allowance for credit losses. For Wells, the combined amount of Tier 1 capital and our $21.7 billion of allowance would approximate 9.4% of earning assets for the consolidated two banks at year-end 2008. That ratio is higher than Wells Fargo maintained on a standalone basis at any point in the last six years other than 2006, a year in which Wells Fargo built excess capital by significantly reducing assets given the fact that asset spreads were not properly accounting for risk. We consider the capital position and allowance of the consolidated company to be a source of strength.

Since credit is such an important part of the current picture, let me now conclude with an overview of the various loan portfolios, including Wachovia's major loan portfolios. The new Wells Fargo has a combined total of $129.5 billion in home equity loans and lines of credit at the end of 2008, including loans and lines of credit that were originated through the National Home Equity Group, Wachovia, Wells Fargo Financial and the Wealth Management group. For reporting purposes, additions to the total reported portfolio at year-end are included within the core portfolio while the liquidating portfolio is reported on the same basis as prior quarters and is Wells Fargo only.

The fourth-quarter home equity loss rate on a combined basis, excluding the impaired home equity portfolio, was 2.87%, down from the Wells Fargo home equity loss rate of 3.09% in the third quarter, which included home-equity loans originated in the National Home Equity Group only. This improvement in loss rate reflects the higher quality of Wachovia's home equity portfolio, which was predominantly retail-originated, about 98.8%, with a higher percentage of balances in the first lien positions than Wells Fargo's portfolio and with greater geographic diversity.

About 20% of legacy Wachovia's home equity portfolio balance was in the first lien position compared with approximately 13% for standalone Wells Fargo. The addition of Wachovia's home equity portfolio actually improved the geographic diversification of the overall home equity portfolio since 74% of Wachovia's home equity portfolio is outside of California and Florida compared with 58% outside of California and Florida for the standalone Wells Fargo home equity portfolio.

The liquidating portfolio reported a fourth-quarter loss rate of 8.27%, up from 7.59% in the third quarter, reflecting the continued decline in home prices, higher levels of unemployment and the proportionately higher percentage of the portfolio, a combined current loan to value of greater than 90%. 76% of this portfolio had a combined loan-to-value of greater than 90% at quarter-end based predominantly on estimated home values from automated valuation models updated through December 2008.

40% of the core portfolio, excluding legacy Wells Fargo Financial and legacy Wells Fargo Wealth Management group, had a combined loan-to-value of greater than 90%. The liquidating portfolio at December 31, 2008 was $10.3 billion, down from a peak of $11.9 billion a year ago.

The higher risk home equity loans at Wachovia are reflected in the impaired portfolio with a beginning balance of $1.4 billion, which were marked down 41% to $0.8 billion. Until home prices stabilize, we continue to expect higher losses in the home equity portfolio. It is important to remember, however, that most of our home equity borrowers were current with their loans at quarter-end. Excluding the impaired home equity portfolio, about 2.48% of the portfolio balance were two or more payments past due compared to 2.29% at September 30, 2008 for the Wells Fargo standalone portfolio.

We continue to work aggressively with our customers to avoid problems and mitigate loss. During the fourth quarter, our loss mitigation activities within the National Home Equity Group benefited nearly 4400 customers with over $429 million in balances. By working with these customers and finding solutions to their financial difficulties, we believe we will end up keeping more customers in their homes and mitigating loss. In addition to exiting most indirect home equity origination channels last year, we have been managing accounts to reduce risk while at the same time remaining open for business for creditworthy retail customers.

As you may remember, Wells Fargo has never originated option ARMs and we're not going to start now. In fact, Wachovia's Pick-a-Pay portfolio is already in the process of being reduced as no new loans are made and existing loans mature or modify or sold. However, we do believe that Wachovia's option ARM portfolio, or Pick-a-Pay, is the highest quality option ARM portfolio in the industry.

After the effect of purchase accounting, the portfolio totaled $93.2 billion. $35.5 billion of the remaining portfolio are credit-impaired loans, which were marked down by 41% and represents the portion of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio we believe has the greatest probability of default. Estimated future losses for the impaired portion of the portfolio have already been recognized as a reduction in these loan balances pursuant to purchase accounting and will not be charged against future earnings.

We are already using the mortgage company's expertise in mitigating losses with a test mailing to select Pick-a-Pay customers where we believe a loan modification may help keep them in their homes. This follows Wachovia's modification efforts last fall with the mark that we have taken on the portfolio providing us with more flexibility, particularly on balance and rate adjustments.

The portion of the Pick-a-Pay portfolio that we did not mark, $57.7 billion, has dramatically better credit performance and characteristics. For example, the 30-plus day delinquency ratio was only 10 basis points. Additionally, these borrowers have credit statistics that are more representative of Wachovia's remaining consumer real estate portfolio with an average current FICO of 712 and an average current LTV of 80% at quarter-end.

Within the first mortgage portfolio, Wells Fargo Financial had a total of $25 billion of debt consolidation loans originated through Financial's US retail stores at quarter-end, flat from the third quarter due to tightening underwriting standards, declining real estate values and less investment in their distribution network. The declining real estate values and increases in unemployment have resulted in higher delinquencies and charge-offs in this portfolio with fourth-quarter losses of $97 million, a 1.53% annualized loss rate.

While losses and delinquencies increased, they are still significantly better than published industry rates for nonprime mortgage portfolios. The better credit performance in our portfolio was due to our consistently tighter underwriting standards compared to other nonprime mortgage originators. The Wells Fargo Financial team members who underwrite these loans originated through the store network underwrite to customer first and the collateral second. This portfolio does not include any interest-only stated income option ARM or negative amortizing loans. $12 billion of the debt consolidation portfolio is in ARM products. Almost 25% of the ARM portfolio is in the adjustable period and an additional 20% is scheduled to have its initial adjustment in 2009. Adjustable rates decreased for much of 2008 and if interest rates remain low, loans scheduled to adjust in 2009 will in fact have lower monthly payments.

Wells Fargo Financial's $24 billion auto portfolio declined 19% from last year, reflecting tightened credit standards and car sales at a 26-year low. Net charge-offs on Wells Fargo Financial portfolio were up $55 million linked quarter, 6.04% annualized loss rate, reflecting seasonal trends, lower used-car prices and the deterioration in the economy. 90 days past due were up 11 basis points in the fourth quarter last year. Wachovia's $23.4 billion owned auto portfolio increased 4% year-over-year. While net losses in this portfolio are not included in Wells Fargo's results for the quarter, the annualized net charge-off ratio on the owned portfolio was 3.7% in the fourth quarter. 90 days past due increased 7 basis points from the third quarter of 2008 and the fourth quarter of last year.

Beginning January 1, indirect auto loans will be originated through Wachovia Dealer Services and Wells Fargo Financial will originate all direct auto loans. Approximately 90% of the combined auto portfolio was originated through indirect lending.

Wells Fargo Community Banking credit card portfolio had $13.7 billion in outstanding balances at quarter-end, up 18% annualized from the third quarter and up 15% from a year ago. The growth of this portfolio has continued to slow, reflecting lower consumer spending and tighter underwriting standards. Losses in this portfolio continue to increase as a result of higher bankruptcy rates and higher unemployment. We proactively manage our existing accounts, including restricting balance growth and transactions on riskier accounts, lowering and in some cases closing credit lines and for a small percentage of accounts, we're pricing them consistent with the customer's current risk profile.

Since the vast majority of our bankcard customers have other relationships with Wells Fargo, we monitor customer behavior using both internal and external measurements. Wells Fargo Financial had $7.8 billion in credit card balances at quarter-end, up 5% annualized from the third quarter. These cards are sold primarily to Wells Fargo Financial customers and through retailers and manufacturers with large dealer networks, not through mass mailing campaigns.

Wells Fargo Financial's card portfolio accounted for over half of the quarterly increase in consumer credit card losses. Similar to the bank's credit card business, Wells Fargo Financial has continued to proactively manage new and existing accounts with tightened underwriting standards and by appropriately pricing for risk.

Wachovia had only $2.5 billion in credit cards outstanding at the end of the quarter. The Wachovia card business model mirrors Wells Fargo's with cards sold only to banking customers. Wachovia's fourth-quarter loss rate was in line with the loss rate on Wells Fargo Community Banking card portfolio.

Within our commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolio, we have an $11.7 billion Business Direct portfolio, consisting primarily of unsecured small loans and lines of credit to small business owners nationwide with an average balance of less than $20,000. Business Direct's credit losses increased in the fourth quarter by $29.4 million in the third quarter. This increase is consistent with the higher losses experienced in our consumer portfolios.

Wells Fargo had a total of $68 billion of commercial real estate and construction loans outstanding at the end of the fourth quarter, up 6% from the third quarter, including $32 billion managed by the Wholesale Banking Group. Charge-offs were $93 billion in the fourth quarter, or a 0.55% loss rate. Although the portfolio has shown some signs of stress, the loss rates have remained at an acceptable level. Our real estate underwriting expertise has remained consistent through many prior cycles and continues to serve us well in this one.

Within our commercial real estate portfolio, we had approximately $5.5 billion in residential one-to-four family construction and land development loans. While losses in this portfolio increased due to the decline in the residential real estate market, losses remained within expectations because of the quality and experience of our people and our customers.

Wachovia's commercial real estate portfolio totaled $70 billion, including $45 billion managed by the real estate division after taking $7.7 billion of loan marks. We believe the loan marks taken in this portfolio are appropriate given the risk in the portfolio. Approximately $60 billion of the combined commercial real estate portfolio between the two banks is owner-occupied commercial real estate.

Let me now briefly summarize the loan portfolio for the combined company. On a combined basis, we had $865 billion of loans outstanding as of December 31, 2008. There is more geographic diversity in this portfolio than either bank had prior to the merger and we have maintained our balance of commercial and consumer loans.

The allowance of credit losses of $21.7 billion at year-end covered more than 320% of nonperforming assets, the highest coverage ratio among large bank peers. The allowance covers 12 months of estimated losses for all consumer loans and at least 24 months for commercial loans.

In summary, within the context of a challenging external environment, Wells Fargo remains an industry leader in providing credit to consumers and businesses, extending over half a $1 trillion in new loan commitments and mortgage originations since the start of the credit crisis in mid-2007.

Loan and deposit growth is driving significant and hopefully durable top-line growth with pretax pre-provision growth increasing 18% last year. We successfully closed the Wachovia acquisition on schedule on plan on December 31, 2008. In preparation for the next stage of profitable growth, numerous actions were taken by both banks in the fourth quarter that will reduce the potential for loss going forward.

While these actions and other significant items resulted in a reported loss at both banks in the fourth quarter, the balance sheet of the combined organization was strengthened and the resultant derisked capital position of the new organization remains strong. Let me now turn it over to John Stumpf, Wells Fargo's President and Chief Executive Officer, for some concluding comments.

JOHN STUMPF, PRESIDENT & CEO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks, Howard. I just wanted to reiterate how enthusiastic we are about the future for Wells Fargo. With the completion of the Wachovia merger, we are one team twice as strong. I feel better about this deal now than I did when it was first announced. I have met with thousands of Wachovia team members and customers all over the East Coast and the Southeast. These are really great people in really great markets.

This merger is coming together better than we ever could have expected. While the economy is worse, no question about that than when we announced the merger, we feel very good about our financial assumptions, including 20% IRR and at least 20% accretive to GAAP earnings in year three, 30% on a cash basis. I also believe that our cost save projections were low and our conversion cost projections were high.

The weakened economy is, in many ways, a benefit for bringing these companies together. Wachovia's talented team members are choosing to stay with the company in greater numbers than we anticipated. These are really terrific team members who are among the very best at serving their customers and customers that left Wachovia prior to the merger are coming back and are excited about giving Wells Fargo their business.

Remember, we didn't include any revenue synergies in our models, so while economic conditions are still uncertain, we couldn't feel better about the future for Wells Fargo. I'm also happy to report that today the Board of Directors declared a common dividend of $0.34 per share consistent with our prior dividend. Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523 or Jim Rowe, Associate Director, at 415-396-8216. Thank you.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
ASC Partners, LLC
   AN
Document FNDW000020090204e51s000pa
  


 HD
 Q2  2008 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,584 words
   PD
16 July 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo second-quarter 2008 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we discuss our second-quarter results we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In this call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions including statements about future credit quality and losses generally and specifically that we expect higher losses in the home equity portfolio until home prices stabilize, that we believe we can mitigate losses by working with customers who are experiencing financial stress and that based on the current interest-rate environment most of our adjustable rate mortgages at Wells Fargo Financial scheduled to reset during the remainder of 2008 will reset at or below their current rate.

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our second-quarter results and to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Wells Fargo earned a $1.8 billion profit or $0.53 a share in the second quarter. Our credit related expenses including a $1.5 billion credit reserve build were $3 billion in the quarter, up $2.3 billion from a year ago. But nevertheless, we continued to grow our Company profitably at a time when many of our peers are losing money and shrinking. We continued to shift our asset portfolio toward lower risk, higher risk adjusted return business and even with 15% annualized linked-quarter growth in earning assets, we increased our capital ratios.

Here are some of the metrics that highlight the profitable growth we've achieved year over year and the further strengthening of our balance sheet this quarter -- pretax pre-provision income up 34%; total revenue up 16%; average earning assets up 20%; average loans up 18% with consumer loans up 13% and commercial loans up 27%; fee income up 10% reflecting continued growth in cross sell; record retail cross sell of 5.64 products and record commercial cross sell of 6.3 products; net retail checking accounts up 5.5%; mortgage servicing of $1.5 trillion up 7%; mortgage originations of $63 billion and new mortgage applications of $100 billion almost entirely an agency conforming and government guarantee mortgages; WellsTrade assets under management up 8%; positive operating leverage with expenses up only 2% versus 16% revenue growth resulting in a 51% efficiency ratio; net interest margin of 4.92% up 23 basis points in the quarter; net interest income up $1.8 billion year to date from the first half of 2007 largely offsetting the increase in net charge offs for the same period even after adjusting charge-offs for the impact of our National Home Equity Group's new charge-off policy; reserves to total loans of 1.88%, the highest this ratio has been in five years; and Tier 1 capital of 8.24%, up 32 basis points in the quarter and up 65 basis points since year end reflecting our 14.6% rate of an internal capital generation among the highest in the industry as well as two successful non-diluted capital raises since year end 2007; and finally, Tier 1 capital plus allowance for loan loss equal to 9.7% of average earning assets, up to 87 basis points from year end.

The growth profitability and balance sheet strength reflects the benefits of our diversified business model as well as the unprecedented opportunities the credit crisis itself has created to add attractive assets of widespreads, to add new customers and to add market and wallet share. In Wells Fargo's case the benefit of the credit crisis in terms of higher assets and higher spreads has so far largely offset the negative impact of higher charge-offs. We believe we are one of the few banks that have the capacity to take advantage of such opportunities.

We announced today that the Wells Fargo Board of Directors increased the quarterly common stock dividend by $0.03 to $0.34 per share, an increase of 10% from the previous quarterly dividend. This is the 21st consecutive year that Wells Fargo has increased its common stock dividend.

Let me now describe in more detail the business growth we achieved this quarter and I'll end with a review of credit quality and capital management. First the commercial business. Our wholesale and commercial banking group which serves primarily middle-market customers and select niches in the large corporate market had double-digit loan and deposit growth. Revenue grew $191 million or 8% from the second quarter of 2007. Businesses that generated strong revenue growth included lending businesses, deposit services, foreign exchange, institutional brokerage, financial products and insurance.

Commercial real estate brokerage fees and capital markets revenue declined from an exceptionally high level a year ago. During these uncertain times Wells Fargo is viewed as a consistent and reliable source for financial advice and products by our commercial customers. Our long-term focus on doing the right thing for our customers has resulted in our ability to earn more of our customers' business and add new customer relationships. This success was reflected in second quarter's record cross sell of 6.3 products per wholesale relationship and 7.8 products per middle-market commercial banking relationships and we continued to grow fee income during the quarter.

Wholesale Banking's average loans increased 32% from the second quarter of 2007 as we gained more loan business from our customers, added more loan production offices in select cities around the country and added new customers directly or through opportunistic attractively priced acquisitions such as the CIT Construction portfolio and a portfolio purchased by Foothill.

Loan growth was broad-based across many of our commercial businesses including double-digit growth in asset-based lending, middle-market lending, international, commercial real estate and specialized financial services which includes our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies. We saw an increase in loan spreads for new business across many of our commercial lending products.

Within Wholesale Banking the commercial real estate group had $29.5 billion of commercial real estate loans outstanding at quarter end, up 9% from the first quarter. The disruption in the capital markets makes Wells Fargo a reliable source of funding for our existing and high-quality new customers. This growth was diversified by property type with the largest concentration in office buildings, 28% of new lens. This portfolio is geographically diverse with commercial real estate lending originated through offices nationwide. The commercial real estate loans we added to our portfolio were at better spreads with stronger covenants and largely with customers we have done business with over many years and many cycles.

Wholesales average core deposits were up $8 billion or 14% from second quarter of 2007. This growth came primarily from our relationships with large corporate middle-market and correspondent banking customers. Our asset-based lending business continued to grow during these challenging economic times. We have been in this business almost four decades and we are one of the nation's largest asset-based lenders. This is a business that has been successful through a variety of business cycles.

Loans grew $5.4 billion, up 34% and revenue grew 21% from a year ago. During the quarter, Wells Fargo Foothill acquired 80 loans with approximately $1 billion outstanding from a national competitor. Foothill had an existing lending relationship with 59 of these customers, a great example of how we have been able to grow quality assets with both new and existing customers in this environment.

Our international group also had double-digit revenue growth. Foreign exchange revenue was up 28% from the second quarter of 2007 and quarterly sales were up 32% from a year ago. This increase in foreign exchange sales is due to the fact that many of our middle-market commercial customers require currency transactions as a result of their increased exports and increased hedging needs as well as the increased demand by our customers for international investments as an alternative asset class.

Foreign exchange at revenue growth through our international teller sites located in our banking stores increased 44% from a year ago. Despite a weak dollar, Wells Fargo customers continued to travel overseas with banknote revenue up 53% from the second quarter of 2007.

The insurance services group had another quarter of double-digit revenue growth. Our consumer and small-business insurance group grew revenue by 12% from the second quarter of 2007 driven by sales of identity theft protection, debt cancellation and crop insurance products. Crop insurance continued to benefit from high commodity prices. Our analysis of the recent Midwest flooding currently indicates that the damage was not as widespread as it first appeared nor was it concentrated in counties and states where we had significant exposure; therefore no special provisioning was required in the second quarter. However, we will continue to monitor crop conditions throughout the growing season.

It is important to remember that the vast majority of our risk is born by third parties including reinsurers and government agencies. Our middle-market commercial insurance company achieved 27% revenue growth adding 13 new insurance brokerage businesses across the country over the past year.

Wells Fargo Financial Products group helps our customers manage their exposure to commodity prices, equities, credit, interest rates and currencies and creates customized commodity, interest rates, equity, credit and currencies solutions for customers who want to add tailored investment alternatives to their portfolio. The continued volatility in interest rates and credit and equity markets in the second quarter created opportunities for our financial products group to expand customer sales and earn higher spreads more than doubling revenue from a year ago. While equity capital gains declined from a year ago, equity and commodity trading areas and customer derivative sales were all very strong this quarter.

Our institutional brokerage company produced record sales of fixed income products. Wholesale Banking continues to invest in better distribution to meet our customers' needs. We are the only provider of browser-based mobile banking for our commercial customers and we've added wire transfer services and image positive pay functionality to the CEO Mobile service. CEO Mobile is a streamlined mobile optimized version of the commercial electronic office portal. We added this functionality because our customers told us they wanted to handle wires and check exceptions without being at their desks.

During the past year, wholesale banking added 26 offices across 16 states. Acquisitions over the past year included CIT Construction, ABD Insurance as part of the Greater Bay Bancorp transaction, an insurance premium finance company, Flatiron Credit Company, and Transcap Associates Inc., a factoring and trade finance business. These acquisitions expanded our capabilities and give us further opportunities to better serve our customers.

Let me now shift to the community bank. The Community Banking group including regional banking, wealth management, home equity, mortgage banking and retail Internet had double-digit revenue growth up 22% from the second quarter of 2007, driven by 17% earning asset growth and 16% fee income growth in retail banking and mortgage. Net income declined $268 million from a year ago reflecting a pretax credit reserve build of $1.1 billion.

Core product sales, what we call solutions, were $5.7 million in the second quarter up 18% from the second quarter of 2007. California continued to be one of our fastest growing states with a 21% increase in core product sales from a year ago. Sales growth continued to be driven by improved customer service, higher sales force productivity and new product development.

We continued to add more salespeople with platform banker FTE up 8% from a year ago while sales grew at more than twice that rate. In the second quarter, core sales per platform banker FTE a key measure of our productivity, were 5.24 per day up from 4.78 per day a year ago, a 10% increase.

Once again regional banking achieved record cross sell. Our average retail bank household had 5.64 products with Wells Fargo, up from 5.4 products a year ago and up from around three products 10 years ago. 23% of our retail bank households had over eight products with us, our long-term goal, at nearly double the amount of households who bought eight products five years ago. In our top region, 32% of our retail bank households had over eight products with us.

We have had strong growth and better customer penetration across many product lines including Wells Fargo Packages which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card or savings account. Package sales were up 33% from the second quarter of 2007 purchased by 72% of new checking account customers and up from 66% a year ago.

Total card fees including credit and debit cards were up 14% from the second quarter of 2007 as we earned more of our customers' business. 38% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 36% a year ago and up from 27% five years ago. Purchase volume on consumer credit cards was up 13% from the second quarter of 2007. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 86% five years ago. Debit card purchase volume growth slowed in the second quarter up 3%.

Consumer checking accounts were up a net 5.5%, the highest growth in over three years and small business checking accounts up a net 2.4% from last year. California continued to be one of our fastest growing markets with consumer checking accounts up a net 6.7%. This was the twelfth consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our 23 Community Banking states. Texas also had strong growth with consumer checking accounts up a net 6%.

While deposit pricing in many of our markets remain competitive, we continue to be disciplined in deposit pricing with the average rate on our interest-bearing core deposits declining 86 basis points in the first quarter. Our short-term CD rates in particular have been less aggressive than many of our peers. On the other hand, the steepened yield curve has allowed us to attract longer-term deposits from retail customers at attractive rates. Our highest yielding CDs are at maturities greater than 12 months for the first time in eight quarters.

Average retail core deposits which exclude Wholesale Banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 5% from a year ago and 4% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. We continue to increase the number of small-business customers we serve and to better serve our existing customers with store-based business solutions which were up 18% from the second quarter of 2007. Sales of Wells Fargo Business Services Packages which include a business checking account and at least three other business products such as a business debit card, credit card or business loan or a line of credit were up 31% from the second quarter of 2007 and were purchased by 48% of new business checking account customers.

Loans to small businesses, loans primarily less than $100,000 on our Business Direct platform grew 10% from the second quarter of 2007. Business banking household cross sell was 3.6 products, up from 3.5 products a year ago on a comparable basis.

Our wealth management group achieved record results with revenue up 13% and net income up 29% from second quarter 2007. These strong results were driven by double-digit loan and deposit growth. Private banking servicing our highest net worth customers was the group's fastest growing segment. Private banking revenue increased over 50% from a year ago and net income grew 85% driven by very strong deposit and loan growth. This shows we are seen as a premier provider of financial services enabling us to gain more of our customers' business and attract new high net worth customers. \

WellsTrade, our online brokerage service, had double-digit revenue and net income growth and continued to attract and retain customers with account levels up 14%. WellsTrade assets under management grew 8% from the second quarter of 2007, strong growth considering the S&P 500 dropped 15% during the first half of 2008.

Internet sales are an important channel for overall sales growth with core consumer product sales up 16% from the second quarter of 2007. We had 11 million active online consumers up 14% from a year ago. 67% of all Wells Fargo consumer checking accounts are online. We now have over one million active online small-business customers up 20% from a year ago. Core small-business product sales were up 44% from a year ago, driven by strong growth in deposit products. We opened 19 banking stores during the second quarter and we are now serving our retail customers through our 3330 stores in 23 states.

We welcome the customers and team members from United Bancorporation of Wyoming, a banking acquisition we completed on July 1. We are now the largest bank in Wyoming. Through acquisitions and internal growth we added a total of 350,000 net new retail bank households from a year ago with 219,000 added since December 31, 2007. We also added 26 Web ATM machines bringing our network total to 6950 and we converted 24 to Envelope Free Web ATM machines.

The housing market slowdown and home price depreciation continued to significantly affect many mortgage companies in the second quarter. But our mortgage business continued to benefit from its premier reputation and leadership position in the industry resulting in a high level of originations of high-quality products at improved margins.

Mortgage banking non-interest income was $1.2 billion in the second quarter, up $566 million from the first quarter and up of $508 million from a year ago. While total retail mortgage originations were basically flat from a year ago at $31 billion, our origination of conventional conforming and government guaranteed mortgages increased 40% from a year ago and represented 95% of our total home mortgage originations, up from 60% of originations a year ago. Total originations including both retail and third-party channels of $63 billion were down 22% as we intentionally pulled back our third-party mortgage and home equity originations over the past year. The fact that originations have remained relatively strong from a year ago while we've continued to tighten our pricing and underwriting standards demonstrates the opportunity we are realizing in the marketplace to add high-quality business and top producers during a period when many mortgage companies have decreased their capacity or exited the business entirely.

Mortgage applications were down from last quarter and a year ago but still a very high $100 billion. 44% of these applications were for refinancing, down from 62% in the first quarter. The volume and purchase applications increased to $56 billion in the second quarter, up from $50 billion in the first quarter but down from $68 billion in the second quarter of 2007. We ended the second quarter with an unclosed pipeline of $47 billion.

The $566 million linked-quarter increase in mortgage non-interest income reflected a $609 million increase in net gains on mortgage loan originations and sales activities and a $52 million decline in servicing income. The $609 million net gain on origination sales activities reflected wider margins, lower levels of additions to the repurchase reserve, lower write-downs of repurchased mortgage loans, an increase in the value of commercial mortgages held for sale, and an increase in the servicing value of the mortgage warehouse and pipeline. These improvements were largely driven by higher interest rates and more stable liquidity in the mortgage market.

The decline in servicing income reflected a loss of $65 million that consisted of just over $4.1 billion increase in the fair value of MSRs offset by a corresponding $4.2 billion loss in the value of the economic hedge. The increase in the fair value of MSRs and the decline in value of hedges was influenced by a 50 basis point increase in mortgage market rates and the resulting deceleration in prepayment speeds and the movement of a large portion of the servicing portfolio to being out of the money for refinancing. This was partially reflected in the drop in refinancing activity in our mortgage applications this past quarter.

At the end of the quarter, the ratio of capitalized MSRs to total mortgage loans serviced for others was 1.37% compared with 1.42% a year ago and 1.08% at the end of the first quarter. Some of the increase in this ratio is mix related since our servicing portfolio now has a lower percentage of ARMs, more FHA mortgages and less jumbo mortgages.

Our owned servicing portfolio grew 7% from a year ago. That is somewhat slower growth in prior periods as we continued to reduce third-party originations and purchased substantially less subprime and Alt-A servicing rates. Over 90% of the mortgage loans we service are for prime customers.

Reflecting the continued stress on the housing market, the foreclosure rate continued to increase to 1.06% at quarter end which we believe was still better than the industry average. We continue to work closely with our customers to keep them in their homes. We have invested significant resources into proactively contacting and working with borrowers on case-by-case solutions that align with their individual needs and that respect the important role investors play in this process. The homeowner's willingness to work with us is crucial to our success in keeping people in their homes.

We conducted a study of servicing customers who were up to 60 or more days past due on their loans and not in foreclosure or bankruptcy and found that of every 10 of these customers -- of these borrowers, seven worked with Wells Fargo and reached a solution, two declined our help, and the remainder were either unreachable or a solution could not be found.

Let me now shift to credit quality. Overall credit quality deteriorated in the second quarter. Net charge-offs in the second quarter were $1.5 billion or 1.55% of average loans annualized. As previously disclosed beginning in the second quarter we changed our home equity charge-off policy from 120 days to no more than 180 days consistent with FFIEC guidelines. The impact of this change deferred approximately $265 million in home-equity charge-offs in the second quarter although the change in policy did not reduce second-quarter provision expense which included the deferred charge-offs.

To illustrate the performance of the different parts of our $399 billion loan portfolio, let me review the segments in detail. The deterioration in the overall loan portfolio largely occurred in the second lien home equity portfolio which represented about 19% of the total $399 billion in loans outstanding. At quarter end, we had approximately $84 billion in home equity loans managed by our National Home Equity Group of which about $12 billion were in the first lien position.

Second-quarter losses in the total home equity portfolio were $342 million which as indicated was approximately $265 million lower than it would have been because of the change we made in our home equity charge-off policy. Of the $342 million in loss, $97 million was in the liquidating home equity portfolio, loans primarily sourced through third parties. The remaining loss of $245 million was in the core home equity portfolio, about 98% of which was sourced directly through our retail system.

Loans originated through our retail system have performed significantly better than the loans originated through third parties. In terms of financial risk, a principled distinction between the liquidating and the core portfolios is that due to the continued decline in home prices 71% of the smaller liquidating portfolio had a combined loan to value of greater than 90% at quarter end based predominantly on estimated home values from March 2008 automated evaluation models and May 2008 home price indices whereas 38% of the core portfolio had updated combined loan to values above 90%.

Until home prices stabilize we expect higher losses in the home equity portfolio. It is important to remember that most of our home equity borrowers are current with their loans. Only about 2% of the accounts are two or more payments past due at quarter end. We are working diligently but aggressively with our customers to avoid problems and mitigate loss.

The change in home equity charge-off policy this quarter was made to provide additional time to work with those customers who may be experiencing financial stress but have the potential to resolve their difficulty. During the second quarter, that change in policy benefited nearly 900 customers with approximately $90 million in balances. By working with these customers and finding solutions to their financial difficulties, we believe we will end up keeping more customers in their homes and mitigating loss.

In addition to exiting most indirect home equity origination channels last year, we have been managing accounts to reduce risk while at the same time remaining open for business for creditworthy retail customers. As a result of our active account management and tightening of credit for new originations, total home equity outstandings were flat this quarter. The liquidating home equity portfolio was down about $800 million or 7% from year end.

The $75 billion first mortgage portfolio experienced slight deterioration but losses remained relatively low. Second-quarter annualized charge-offs were 0.53% with $97 million in total losses up slightly from $75 million in the first quarter. The relatively low loss rate in our total first mortgage portfolio largely reflected the fact that we never offered option ARMs or negative amortizing products as well as the conservative underwriting and mortgage products we have traditionally held in the portfolio.

Our first mortgage portfolio consisted of $25 billion of real estate secured loans held at Wells Fargo Financial, $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position mostly retail originated, and $38 billion of mostly prime customer relationship-based first mortgages held at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, Regional Banking or our Wealth Management group.

As we continue to tighten our underwriting standards in the second quarter, the growth in this portfolio slowed up only 2% from the first quarter. We continue to adjust our maximum LTVs based on local market conditions, enhanced our income documentation standards and further adjusted our risk-based pricing as we continued to strengthen our new origination requirements and loan quality.

Within the first mortgage portfolio, Wells Fargo Financial had a total of $25 billion of debt consolidation loans originated through Financial's U.S retail stores at quarter end. Because of the decline in real estate values and active account management, debt consolidation loan growth has continued to slow with the portfolio up only 2% from the first quarter compared with a 15% increase from second quarter 2007. 96% of the $25 billion debt consolidation portfolio was in a first lien position.

Wells Fargo Financial team members who originate these loans underwrite to the customer first and the collateral second. This portfolio does not include interest-only, stated income, option ARM or negative amortizing loans.

New real estate customers primarily come from outbound calling to customers with a Wells Fargo relationship where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations through debt consolidation. We conservatively underwrite these loans with a full documentation and require income verification. 62% of this portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The average LTV was 78%. The average loan size was $132,000. Approximately 53% of the portfolio was fixed rate loans. The remaining loans were 327 adjustable rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan. These loans were underwritten to a fully indexed rate and do not contain teaser rates.

Based on the current interest rate environment starting in the second quarter most of our adjustable rate mortgages that reset throughout the rest of 2008 will reset at the same rate or below their current rate which will actually reduce customer monthly payments.

Like other real estate secured portfolios, delinquencies and charge-offs have increased due to the weak housing market. Second-quarter losses were $48 million or a 0.76% annualized loss rate. The credit performance for this portfolio has continued to perform significantly better than published industry rates for nonprime mortgage portfolios.

The size of Wells Fargo Financial's $27 billion auto portfolio declined 14% annualized from last quarter and 12% from last year reflecting a tightening of that account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume and higher risk tiers and tiers with unacceptable returns. Credit losses declined $47 million from the first quarter in part seasonal and increased only $23 million over second quarter 2007. Losses in this portfolio totaled $242 million or about 16% of Wells Fargo's overall quarterly losses.

Total delinquencies increased 16% in 90 days past due and still accruing increased 22% on a linked-quarter basis due to the weakness in the overall economy and seasoning of the portfolio. Delinquencies were flat and 90 days past due were up 11% in the second quarter of 2007. Approximately 50% of the portfolio was for cars or vans with the other 50% for trucks and SUVs and just under one-third was for the purchase of new vehicles. Almost 75% of the auto portfolio had a FICO of above 620.

We are pleased with the improved performance in the auto portfolio under a new management team, new collections and underwriting systems installed a year ago and tighter underwriting and pricing. We announced this month that we are exiting the auto leasing business. About 10% of the auto portfolio and about 6% of year-to-date originations were from the lease business.

Our $13 billion Community Banking credit card portfolio is a relationship product primarily offered to our Wells Fargo customers within our banking states. Credit losses have increased from historically low levels as a result of higher bankruptcy rates, seasoning of the portfolio and continuing economic pressure on consumers but they remained within our profit level expectations and historical industry norms.

We continued to tighten our underwriting standards which reduced new account growth but increased the quality of our new customers. We proactively manage our existing accounts including placing accounts in non-expansion [queues], lowering and in some cases closing credit lines, and for a small percentage of accounts repressing them consistent with the customer's current risk profile. Since the vast majority of our bank card customers have other relationships with Wells Fargo, we monitor customer behavior using both internal and external measurements.

Wells Fargo Financial has a $7.4 billion credit card portfolio, flat from the first quarter. These cards are primarily sold to Wells Fargo Financial customers and through retailers and manufacturers with large dealer networks, not through mass mailing campaigns. Financial's card portfolio consisted of three different portfolios, $2.7 billion in standard credit cards sold to Wells Fargo customers; $2.8 billion in our retailer portfolio which is a private-label card, similar to sales finance; and $1.4 billion in cash on demand which looks like a credit card but can only be used at an ATM not at a merchant. Losses in Wells Fargo Financial's card portfolio increased $18 million from the first quarter; however, we have made significant investments in default management, continue to tighten underwriting standards and appropriately price for risk.

The net interest spread on total credit cards is positive even with the higher loss rates in this portfolio so growth in this portfolio added to earnings even as dollar losses increased in the second quarter.

Within our $168 billion commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolio, we have $11.8 billion business direct portfolio consisting primarily of unsecured small loans and lines of credit to small business owners nationwide with an average balance of less than $20,000. Business Direct's losses which were up about $30 million linked-quarter showed signs of stabilizing near the end of the second quarter as a result of almost 18 months of tightened underwriting and account management activities targeted at reducing exposure to the highest risk accounts. However, losses in this portfolio as in all of our loan portfolios will obviously be impacted by how the overall economy performs.

Our remaining commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continue to produce good credit performance. While losses have increased from historical lows, they were still below historical averages. Losses in commercial lending are lumpy by nature but we continue to benefit from our focus on deep and long-term relationships. At the end of the second quarter, we had approximately $6 billion in residential one to four family construction and land development loans which was only 1.5% of total loans. While losses in this portfolio increased due to the decline in the residential real estate market, losses remained acceptable because of the quality and experience of our people and customers. And we continue to maintain a high level of discipline in our credit underwriting standards across our commercial and residential real estate businesses.

Total nonperforming assets were $5.2 billion or 1.31% of loans in the second quarter compared with $4.5 billion or 1.16% of loans in the first quarter. The majority of the increase in nonperforming assets was concentrated in portfolios affected by residential real estate. The nonperforming loan increase was affected by our strategies to reduce losses at home mortgage, home equity and Wells Fargo Financial. We work hard at keeping our customers in their homes and have increased the number of loan modifications. Accounting rules require us to classify these restructured loans as nonperforming until the customer demonstrates the ability to make payments under the revised terms. We require six monthly payments before returning the loan to accrual status.

The home-equity charge-off policy change also contributed to the increase in nonperforming loans as fewer loans were charged off this quarter. Due to market conditions, we continue to hold more foreclosed properties than we have historically. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing excluding insured ad guaranteed Ginny Mae and similar loan balances increased by $150 million from the first quarter.

The increase this quarter in real estate construction was due to matured loans to a few homebuilders with whom we are working on restructuring. With the additional $1.5 billion of loan-loss provision [above] charge-offs this quarter, our allowance for credit losses was $7.5 billion, nearly double the $4 billion allowance a year ago. At quarter end, our allowance as a percent of total loans was 1.88%. We believe this allowance was adequate for losses inherent in the portfolio at June 30, 2008.

Let me conclude with a few final comments about balance sheet. During the last year, we've added approximately $20 billion to our available for sale securities portfolio. The $91 billion portfolio at quarter end was largely comprised of agency mortgage-backed securities, private CMOs which were mostly triple-A rated, and smaller amounts of hybrid preferreds and other securities. The securities that have been purchased during the past year were purchased and are being held for their attractive long-term yields.

Stockholders equity was $48 billion at June 30, up $757 million from a year ago even though we provided $3.4 billion in excess of net charge-offs over the last three quarters. Our leverage tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 7.35%, 8.24% and 11.23% respectively, all up from year end and the first quarter levels even with our very strong loan and securities portfolio growth.

During the second quarter we issued a $2.5 billion tax deductible hybrid capital security. The security had the lowest coupon for a Fed Tier 1 eligible capital security issued in 2008 and was nearly four times over\ subscribed reflecting the continued strong demand for Wells Fargo securities in the capital markets. Unlike many large bank peers, we have additional capacity to issue non-dilutive capital.

In summary, second-quarter results demonstrate the diversity and strength of Wells Fargo's business model and our ability to continue to grow and invest in our franchise. While we continued to tighten our underwriting standards and price for risk, the asset and customer growth we achieved this quarter demonstrates that Wells Fargo continues to be viewed by our existing and new customers as a strong and reliable provider of financial services. While the credit crisis has resulted in higher charge-offs, the impact of these charge-offs has so far largely been offset by the benefit of higher assets at wider spreads in part created by the credit crisis itself.

Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | c1514 : Earnings Surprises | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080723e47g000jm
  


 HD
 Q1  2008 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final
   WC
6,162 words
   PD
16 April 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, IR, WELLS FARGO: This is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2008 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our first-quarter results we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.

   TD
In this call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about future credit quality and losses generally and specifically that we expect losses in the first mortgage portfolio to increase if housing prices continue to decline; that based on the current interest rate environment most of our adjustable-rate mortgages at Wells Fargo Financial scheduled to reset during the remainder of 2008 will reset at or below their current rate; and that we expect the performance of the liquidating home equity portfolio to continue to deteriorate until real estate markets begin to stabilize or until we manage through the most distressed customer segments.

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future; they are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results, and to our most recent annual report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Adkins.

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, Bob. Wells Fargo earned $2 billion after-tax or $0.60 a share in the first quarter despite a $2 billion pre-tax provision for credit losses which included an additional $500 million credit reserve bill. Our ability to earn through these higher credit costs reflected the benefit of our diversified business model as well as attractive growth opportunities we have taken advantage of in these challenging markets. We continued to steadily and profitably grow the franchise without compromising our operating margins, in fact key operating margins actually widened in the quarter, while at the same time we continued to fortify our strong balance sheet.

In terms of business growth, we achieved record sales in consumer banking, record cross sell in both our retail and commercial businesses, double-digit growth in earning assets and loans, near double-digit growth in deposits and fee income, all of which contributed to producing 12% top-line growth year-over-year. Double-digit revenue growth once again was broad based across our 80 plus businesses with commercial banking, asset based lending, insurance, international, wealth management, regional banking, debit and credit cards, Business Direct, SBA lending, business payroll and mortgage banking all posting double-digit year-over-year revenue growth.

Despite the slump in housing and the periodic dislocations in the secondary mortgage capital markets, Wells Fargo home mortgage applications rose 45% from the fourth quarter to $132 billion, the highest quarterly mortgage application volume since the height of the refi boom in the fall of 2003.

Operating margins remained strong and actually widened in the first quarter. Operating leverage, the difference between revenue growth which was up 12% and expense growth which was down 1%, was very positive and continued to improve reflecting the combination of strong revenue growth with expense discipline.

Our net interest margin at 4.69% remained one of the best among large U.S. banks. The 7 basis point increase in the net interest margin from the fourth quarter to the first quarter reflects the benefit of having correctly positioned since early 2007 for the decline in short-term rates that has now ensued along with continued good growth in core deposits and disciplined deposit pricing.

Even with the higher credit costs incurred in the quarter, our return on assets at 1.4% and our return on equity at 16.9% remained among the top of our peers. Pretax pre-provision profit, in other words revenue less non-interest expense, grew 30% from the first quarter of 2007 to $5.1 billion, a quarterly record driven in large part by 21% growth in average earning assets since last year.

Most of the growth in earning assets came from steady commercial and consumer loan growth along with selective purchases of very high quality, mostly AAA securities at very attractive yields, as credit and liquidity spreads continued to widen in the past few quarters. As you recall, in past years our assets did not grow appreciably as we believed and said all asset classes were significantly overvalued and were not adequately priced for risk. This has now totally changed with many asset classes now undervalued affording us the opportunity to buy assets at very attractive risk-adjusted spreads.

At the same time we have exited, scaled back, runoff, priced up or tightened terms on riskier segments within all of our loan portfolios. With the growth in higher quality assets and the runoff in older, lower quality assets the composition of our portfolio has steadily shifted towards less risky loans and securities, or assets with better risk return characteristics.

During the quarter we charged off $1.5 billion of loans and further bolstered the allowance for loan losses with a $500 million credit reserve build, in other words provision exceeding charge-offs. Liquidity remains strong in part due to our continued growth in core deposits from both retail and business customers.

During the quarter investor demand for our debt securities remained strong and we successfully bolstered liquidity by issuing $6 billion of new term debt and $1.6 billion of tax deductible capital securities. At quarter end we had significant remaining capacity to issue lower cost capital securities if necessary to keep capital growing in line with attractive asset growth.

With that summary of the great combination of growth, profitability and risk reduction let me now describe the results of our major business lines in some detail. And I'll start with our commercial businesses.

Our wholesale and commercial banking group, which serves primarily middle market customers in select niches in the large corporate market, had double-digit loan and double-digit deposit growth. Revenue grew $80 million or 4% from the first quarter of 2007. Higher trust and investment fees, deposit service charges, foreign exchange income, institutional brokerage and insurance revenue were offset by a lower level of commercial real estate brokerage fees, which were very high a year ago, and a lower level of capital markets activity.

We achieved record cross sell of 6.2 products per wholesale relationship and 7.7 products per middle market commercial banking relationship. Almost one of every three of our commercial banking offices had more than eight products per customer relationship. The wholesale banking group's average loans grew 29% year-over-year as a result of new customers and opportunistic, attractively priced acquisitions of high quality assets.

Asset based lending, middle market lending, international, commercial real estate and specialized financial services, which include our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies, all continued to experience double-digit loan growth. Throughout the market dislocations of the past three quarters we have been very clear with our business relationships that we are open for business and we have been actively meeting the financing needs of our wholesale customers resulting in an increased market share while maintaining our conservative underwriting standards.

Wholesale banking group's average core deposits were up $15 billion or 29% from the first quarter of 2007. The growth came primarily from large corporate and middle market relationships, international and correspondent banking customers and from higher institutional sweep and liquidity balances from our asset management customers.

The insurance services group had double-digit revenue growth. Wells Fargo Insurance Inc., our consumer and small-business insurance group, grew revenue by 17% from the first quarter of 2007 driven by sales of identity theft protection, debt cancellation and crop insurance products. Wells Fargo insurance services, our middle market commercial insurance broker, achieved 16% revenue growth adding seven new insurance brokerage businesses across the country last year.

Despite the 7% decline in the S&P 500 index from a year ago, Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, our mutual fund business, grew average assets by 28% from a year ago and ended the quarter with $156 billion in fund balances becoming the second-largest fund manager among U.S. banks. This growth was driven by strong demand for our money market mutual fund products. 53% of the Wells Fargo Advantage Funds were in the top two Lipper performance quintiles for the past three-year period.

Wholesale net income this quarter was only minimally impacted by the capital markets dislocation that has resulted in billions of dollars of write-downs at other financial services companies? During the first quarter $39 million in expenses were recorded for a previously disclosed capital support agreement provided to our AAA rated nongovernment money market mutual funds which had a small investment in one third-party SIV that required some credit write-downs. Wells Fargo does not act as a sponsor for any SIVs.

We also took $63 million of net write-downs in our commercial mortgage held for sale portfolio as a result of widening credit spreads. At the same time the continued market volatility in the first quarter created opportunities for our financial products group to expand customer sales volume and earn higher spreads. While equity capital gains declined from a year ago, sales and revenue of equity, commodities, interest rate and brokerage fixed income products reached quarterly records.

Let me now shifted the community banking group. The community banking group, which includes regional banking, wealth management, home equity, mortgage banking and retail Internet, had double-digit revenue growth up 16% from the first quarter of 2007 driven by double-digit fee and loan growth and strong deposit growth. Net income declined $72 million from a year ago but included a pretax credit reserve build of $385 million.

During the first quarter regional banking achieved record core product sales of $5.8 million, up 17% from first quarter of 2007. For the first time ever we provided over 2 million solutions to customers in a single month. These exceptionally strong sales results continue to be driven by customer demand, improved store-based service levels, higher productivity and deeper customer penetration. Our sales growth benefited from greater banker productivity.

We continued to invest in adding more sales people with platform banker FTEs up 7% from a year ago, but sales grew at almost 2.5 times that rate. We measure this increased productivity through core sales per platform banker FTE per day. In the first quarter core sales per platform banker FTE was a record 5.64 per day, up from 5.08 per day a year ago, an 11% increase.

Once again regional banking achieved record cross sell. The average retail bank household had 5.6 products with Wells Fargo, up from 5.3 products a year ago, and up from around 3 products 10 years ago. To put this in perspective, in order to increase cross sell from 5.3 to 5.6 regional banking had to increase the total number of products our customers own by nearly three times the rate we grew the number of our retail bank households.

Six of our 32 regions now have an average retail bank household cross sell of over 6; 23% of our retail customers had over 8 products with us -- our long-term goal, nearly double the amount of customers who bought 8 products five years ago and in her top region 32% of our customers had over 8 products with us.

We've had strong growth across many product lines including Wells Fargo packages which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card or savings account. Package sales were up 32% from the first quarter of 2007 purchased by 72% of new checking account customers. Total card fees including credit and debit card were up 19% in the first quarter of 2007.

At quarter end 38% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 36% a year ago and up from 27% five years ago. Purchase volume on consumer bankcards was up 18% from first quarter of 2007 and average balances were up 30%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 86% five years ago, and debit card purchase volume increase by 11% from the first quarter of 2007.

Deposit fees in both consumer and commercial customers continue to grow, up 9% from a year ago. This growth was driven by volume, not price increases. Average core deposits of $317 billion grew 9% from a year ago and 3% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were down $205 million from the first quarter of 2007 and up $572 million from the fourth quarter of 2007.

Excluding mortgage escrow balances average core deposits grew 10% from the first quarter of 2007 and 3% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average retail core deposits, which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 5% from a year ago and 4% annualized on a linked quarter basis.

The average balance per retail account continued to decline slightly. We continue to be disciplined in our deposit pricing. The average rate on our interest-bearing core deposits declined 70 basis points from the fourth quarter. Despite lower rates we continue to have good account growth with consumer checking accounts up a net 4.9% and small-business checking accounts up a net 2.8% from last year.

California continued to be our fastest-growing market with new consumer checking accounts up a net 5.7%. This was the 11th consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint.

Better serving our small-business customers resulted in a store-based business solutions increasing 9% from the first quarter of 2007. Sales of Wells Fargo business services packages, which include a business checking account and at least three other business products such as a business debit card, credit card or business loan or line of credit were up 24% from the first quarter of 2007 and were purchased by 47% of new business checking account customers.

Loans to small businesses, loans primarily less than $100,000 on our Business Direct platform, grew 14% from the first quarter of 2007. These strong sales results increased business banking household cross sell to 3.6 products, up from 3.4 a year ago.

The wealth management group achieved double-digit revenue and net income growth by continuing to meet the needs of existing customers and gaining new customers who are seeking a trusted institution during these challenging economic times. The wealth management group grew revenues by 12% and net income by 21% from the first quarter of 2007. These strong results were driven by double-digit loan growth and double-digit deposit growth.

Wells Trade, our online brokerage service, had double-digit revenue and net income growth and continued to attract and retain customers with account levels up 14% and assets up over 20% from first quarter of 2007. Also driving growth was the introduction during the first quarter of the family wealth group serving ultra wealthy families who manage their wealth across generations with at least $50 million in net worth.

The Family Wealth Group, part of the private bank, combines superior investment management and risk management capabilities with a broad view of wealth management that includes family enterprise governance and legacy planning. We have a long history of helping families manage their wealth and have a significant presence in the ultra high net worth market segment. The Family Wealth Group currently has $7 billion of assets under management.

Internet sales are an important channel for overall sales growth with consumer product sales up 10% from the first quarter of 2007. We had over 10 million active online consumers, up 13% from a year ago, with 66% of all Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers.

We now have over 1 million active online small-business customers, up 18% from a year ago. We continue to build our physical distribution to better serve our retail and small-business customers opening 11 banking stores and converting 18 retail stores from Greater Bay Bancorp. We are now serving our retail customers through our 3,321 stores in 23 states. We also added to our ATM network, adding 16 Web ATM machines and converting 136 to envelope free Web ATM machines.

Let me now shift to mortgage banking. Despite the continued downturn in the economy and in home prices in the first quarter, and despite the dislocation in the secondary mortgage capital markets, first quarter was one of the best quarters for our mortgage banking business. Mortgage retail originations increased $8 billion or 31% from a year ago even though we continued to tighten pricing and underwriting standards throughout 2007 and into early 2008.

During the last year the industry has seen a meaningful shift from nonconforming mortgage originations to proportionately more agency conforming and federally guaranteed mortgages, both of which are traditional Wells Fargo origination strengths. We have picked up substantial origination market share in these core mortgage products.

Mortgage applications at Wells Fargo grew 17% from a year ago and were up 45% unannualized from the fourth quarter. About 62% of these applications were for refinancing. The $132 billion in applications taken this quarter were the highest since the third quarter of 2003 and we ended the first quarter with an unclosed pipeline of $61 billion, up 42% from the start of the quarter.

Our owned servicing portfolio grew 10% from a year ago, somewhat more moderate growth than in prior periods because lower mortgage rates caused more mortgage payoffs, and we have been much more selective in the type of servicing we are buying, shifting much more to higher quality loan pools and substantially less sub prime and Alt-A servicing rights.

First quarter turned out to be one of the more challenging quarters for hedging the accounting risk in the mortgage servicing rights with significantly more pronounce and more frequent changes in interest rates and mortgage credit spreads throughout the quarter. Yet our MSR hedging process continued to operate effectively. First-quarter net servicing income included a net MSR gain of $94 million consisting of a $1.8 billion reduction in the fair value of MSRs offset by a corresponding $1.9 billion gain in the value of the economic hedge.

In addition, as rates dropped significantly at one point in the quarter, we realized $323 million in gains by selling $13 billion of MBS securities that were hedging the MSR, ultimately replacing these securities largely with off-balance sheet hedges when rates move back up in the quarter.

At the end of the quarter the ratio of capitalized MSRs to the total amount of mortgage loans serviced for others was 1.08%, the lowest ratio in four years, and a 12 basis point decline from the fourth quarter. The decline in the ratio was driven by lower market rates as well as sales in mid 2007 of a portion of our excess servicing to improve the risk profile of the servicing asset and to take advantage of market conditions for excess servicing at that time.

Over 90% of the mortgage loans we service are for prime customers, delinquencies in our residential mortgage servicing portfolio were down on a linked quarter basis due to expected seasonality with customers benefiting from tax rebates, annual bonuses and lower post-holiday spending.

The weak housing market, however, resulted in higher delinquencies from first quarter of 2007 and foreclosures were up both linked quarter and year-over-year. While the foreclosure rate continued to increase to 1.02% at quarter end, we believe it was still better than the industry average.

We continue to work closely with our customers to keep them in their homes. For example, we work across our portfolios when a home equity loan becomes delinquent and Wells Fargo services the first mortgage. With one point of contact for both loans we are able to better serve our customers and investors.

Loan modifications and workouts continued to increase in the first quarter and were up significantly from last year. We are also working with Washington on the proposed rescue plans providing input on both the positive and negative implications of the proposed plans. Net gains on mortgage loan origination and sales activities for the first quarter benefited from the actions we took during 2007 and the first quarter of 2008 to reduce risk by tightening credit standards and by eliminating certain distribution channels and loan products.

However, net gains on mortgage loan origination sales activity was negatively impacted in the quarter by the illiquidity in the secondary mortgage market for nonconforming and adjustable rate mortgages and resulted in a $108 million write-down during the quarter to reflect the decline in the fair value of the mortgage warehouse and pipeline with these prime products.

Unlike the third and fourth quarter of 2007, we chose not to securitize and retain in our investment portfolio a significant portion of nonconforming originations in the first quarter primarily because yields were in fact lower in the first quarter. In addition, mortgage origination gains were reduced by $107 million primarily to reflect a write-down of repurchase mortgage loans and an increase in the repurchase reserve. Net gain on mortgage loan origination and sales activities also included a $48 million reduction in the fair value of servicing associated with mortgage loans in the pipeline and warehouse.

I'll now talk about credit quality. The credit environment remained challenging this quarter. Net charge-offs in the first quarter were $1.5 billion, or 1.6% of loans annualized, up from $1.2 billion in the fourth quarter. The majority of the increase was in our consumer loan portfolios as our customers us continue to be negatively impacted by the downturns in residential real estate and the general economy.

In the commercial portfolios the increase in charge-offs was primarily from loans originated through Business Direct while loss levels in our commercial loans to mid sized and large corporations remained modest. Total nonperforming assets were $4.5 billion or 1.16% of loans in the first quarter compared with $3.9 billion or 1.01% of loans in the fourth-quarter.

The majority of the increase in nonperforming assets was concentrated in portfolios affected by residential real estate consistent with the rise in foreclosure rates in many market. Due to market conditions we continue to hold more foreclosed properties than we have historically.

Loans 90 days or more than two and to accruing, excluding insured and guaranteed Ginny Mae and similar loan balances, increased by $72 million from the fourth-quarter, a substantial reduction from the $296 million linked quarter increase in the fourth quarter from the third quarter. The modest first-quarter increase was positively impacted by improvement in the auto portfolio and a more modest increase in consumer real estate secured portfolios and credit cards.

Let me review the individual loan portfolios in some detail and I will begin by focusing on our exposure to the residential real estate market. Reflecting the continued downturn in housing, the $73 billion first mortgage portfolio had somewhat higher losses with first-quarter annualized charge-offs of 0.41%. That is only $75 million in total losses on the entire $73 billion first mortgage portfolio, up $41 million from the fourth quarter.

This increase was expected and if housing prices continue to decline we would expect loss rates to increase further. However our loss rates remain within expected ranges and also remain lower than industry levels because we never offered and never portfolio'd the more problematic First Mortgage products that are hurting others in the industry.

Our first mortgage portfolio consisted of $24 billion of real estate secured loans held at Wells Fargo financial; $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position; and $37 billion of mostly prime customer relationship based first mortgages held at Wells Fargo home mortgage, regional banking and our wealth management group.

As we continued to tighten our underwriting standards in the first quarter growth in this portfolio slowed. We have once again adjusted our Maximum LTVs based on local market conditions, increased our minimum credit scores and further adjusted our risk-based pricing.

At quarter end Wells Fargo Financial had $28 billion in real estate secured loans. The majority of this amount, about a total of $25 billion, was debt consolidation loans that were originated through Financial's U.S. retail stores. And let me give you some additional characteristics of this $25 billion debt consolidation portfolio.

96% was in the first lien position. This customer portfolio was originated by Wells Fargo Financial team members and does not include interest only stated income, option ARM or negative amortizing loans. New real estate customers primarily come from outbound calling to customers with an existing Wells Fargo relationship where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations through debt consolidation.

We conservatively underwrite these loans with full documentation and require income verification. 62% of this portfolio had a FICO score above 620; the average LTV was 78%; average loan size was $131,000; approximately 51% of the portfolio was fixed-rate loans; and the remaining loans were 327 adjustable-rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan.

These loans were underwritten to the fully indexed grade and do not contain teaser rates. Based on the current interest rate environment, starting in the second quarter most of our adjustable-rate mortgages that reset throughout the rest of 2008 will reset at the same rate or below their current rate which will actually reduce us customer monthly payments.

Like other real estate secured portfolios, delinquencies and charge-offs have increased due to the weak housing market, yet total first-quarter losses were still a very low $34 million on the entire $25 billion portfolio, a 0.56% annualized loss rate. The credit performance for this portfolio has continued to perform better than published industry rates for nonprime mortgage portfolios.

Our national home equity group manages an $84 billion home equity loan portfolio whose balances were relatively flat from year end. As we previously disclosed, we segregated $12 billion of higher loss content home equity loans, primarily sourced through third party originators, into a liquidating portfolio. The first-quarter annualized loss rate in the liquidating portfolio was 5.58%. This portfolio accounted for 37% of home equity charge-offs in the first quarter despite making up only 14% of total home equity balances.

Since 63% of the liquidating portfolio had a combined loan to value of greater than 90% at quarter end based on updated home values as of December 31, 2007 where available, our expectation is that this portfolio's performance will continue to show high losses until real estate markets begin to stabilize or until we manage through the most distressed customer segments.

Losses in the liquidating portfolio produced $47.6 million in net charge-offs for the month of December 2007 and produced $163 million in the first quarter 2008. While 38% of the liquidating portfolio's balances related to properties located in California, only 2% was located in Central California, a region which has experienced some of the highest loss rates.

The core home equity portfolio had an outstanding balance of $72 billion, relatively flat from year end. This core portfolio had a first-quarter annualized loss rate of 1.56%. Declines in home prices and economic weakness contributed to this loss rate. Approximately two-thirds of this portfolio was either in a first position or a second behind a Wells Fargo first. 98% were retail originated which have performed better than loans originated through third-party channels. 30% had an updated combined loan to value greater than 90%.

This portfolio is very geographically diverse. Within the core portfolio the Central California region, representing about 2% of the portfolio and Florida representing about 4%, have experienced weak performance. However, Minnesota representing 6% and Texas representing 4% of the portfolio have remained relatively stable.

In this challenging real estate market it is necessary to have more time to work with our customers to identify ways to help resolve their financial difficulties and keep them in their homes. In order to provide this additional time to assist our customers beginning April 1st we changed our home equity charge-off policy from 120 days to 180 days, consistent with FFIEC guidelines.

Credit losses in the Wells Fargo Financial $28 billion auto portfolio, which included $2.5 billion in auto leases, declined $6 million from the fourth quarter due to seasonality and increased only slightly $31 million in the first quarter of 2007. Both total delinquencies and 90 days past due and still accruing declined 25% on a linked quarter basis. Delinquencies were down 4% and 90 days past due were down 21% from the first quarter of 2007.

Over 70% of the auto portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The size of our auto portfolio declined 16% annualized from last quarter and 9% from last year reflecting a tightening of account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume and higher risk tiers and tiers with unacceptable returns. We are very pleased with the reduced risk in our loan portfolio which reflects the tangible progress we have made under a new management team after having installed new collections and underwriting systems a year ago along with tighter underwriting and pricing.

Two other retail portfolios that are important to our credit performance are credit card and Business Direct. The $12 billion community banking credit card portfolio is primarily issued to our banking customers within our banking states. While losses are increasing from historically low levels as a result of higher bankruptcy rates, seasoning of the portfolio and continuing economic pressure on consumers, losses were within our normal expected range.

We continue to proactively manage these accounts. For example, we are tightening our new underwriting standards which are reducing new customer growth but resulting in higher quality new customers. We are increasing rates on our higher risk accounts and reducing lines and closing accounts where appropriate. Since the vast majority of our bank card customers have other relationships with Wells Fargo, we also monitor customer behavior with other product and manage these accounts accordingly.

Wells Fargo Financial has a $7.4 billion credit card portfolio which was down 3% from the fourth quarter of 2007. These cards are primarily sold to existing Wells Fargo Financial customers and through retailers and manufacturers with large dealer networks, not through mass mailing campaigns. Losses in this portfolio have increased; however, we have made significant investments in default management, continue to tighten underwriting standards and appropriately price for risk.

Our $11.7 billion Business Direct portfolio consists primarily of unsecured small loans and lines of credit to small-business owners nationwide with an average balance of less than $20,000. These loans are included in our commercial loan totals but have tended to perform in a manner similar to credit cards and unsecured consumer loans.

We have been in this business since the nearly 90s and while losses are increasing they were within our long-range expectations. The increase in losses has primarily occurred in certain metropolitan areas within California, Nevada and Florida and appear to be concentrated in industries related to real estate where the business owner may be experiencing difficulty with a home loan.

Similar to our credit card portfolios, we continue to tighten our underwriting standards including reducing line limits where appropriate. Our remaining commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continued to produce good credit performance. While losses have increased from historical lows, there were still below average. Losses in commercial lending are lumpy by nature, but we continue to benefit from our focus on deep and long-term relationships.

At the end of the first quarter we had approximately $6 billion in residential 1 to 4 family construction and land development loans which was only about 1.5% of total loans. While losses in this portfolio increased due to the decline in the residential real estate market, losses remained minimal because we maintained our credit discipline during the boom times of the real estate market. Our commercial real estate management team has been together for over 20 years and they have successfully managed our commercial real estate portfolio through numerous cycles and their experience is invaluable.

With the additional $500 million of loan loss provision above charge-offs this quarter our allowance for credit losses was $6 billion, up from $4 billion a year ago. We believe the allowance was adequate; the loss is inherent in the loan portfolio at March 31, 2008.

In summary, credit losses continue to increase in the home equity and small-business portfolios, losses in other portfolios also increased but at a much more moderate and within expectations. Just as we have continued to tighten our new customer underwriting where we feel it is important to do so, we continue to actively manage our portfolio of existing relationships for long-term value.

We work closely with our existing customers and adjust accounts as needed through loan size, pricing, frequency of customer service, outreach and general terms and conditions. It is always important to remember that even in challenging times the vast majority of our customers are paying on time and performing very well. Of course, any actions we take must strike a balance between reducing risk and managing long-term relationships.

We continue to have a strong capital position with shareholders equity of $48 billion at March 31st, up $2.1 billion from year ago. Our leverage, tier one capital and total capital ratios were 7.04%, 7.87% and 10.95% respectively, all up from year-end levels even with our very strong asset growth. During the first quarter we issued $1.6 billion of tax-deductible capital securities. This was the largest retail hybrid we have ever issued at one of the lowest spreads among recent capital securities issued by other financial institutions reflecting the strong demand for Wells Fargo securities despite difficult market conditions.

So to summarize, first-quarter results clearly reflected the underlying strength of the Wells Fargo franchise and our ability to grow profitably during challenging markets. During a quarter with weak financial and housing markets we achieved double-digit revenue and loan growth. While many of our competitors struggled, our strong capital and financial strength enabled us to add lower risk assets at better prices and increased wallet and marketshare to drive our future growth.

Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080430e44g0008n
  


 HD
 Q4  2007  Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final   
   WC
6,629 words
   PD
16 January 2008
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the  Wells Fargo fourth quarter 2007 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our fourth quarter and full-year results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In this call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, such as statements about credit quality and future credit losses generally. Specifically that we believe the allowance for credit losses is adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2007, and we expect credit losses to be higher in 2008 than they were in 2007.   

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today, which includes a press release announcing our fourth quarter results. And to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.   

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.   

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Despite the economic, housing and capital markets challenges in 2007,  Wells Fargo's businesses performed well overall and relative to our industry peers. By focusing on the core fundamentals of our time-tested business model, we acquired new customers, solidified relationships through cross-sell, filled in our franchise with valuable acquisitions, grew revenues at double-digit rates once again, and at a faster rate than expenses and maintained our strong capital and liquidity positions. As a result, we generated double-digit growth in revenue, loans, deposits and fee income for the year.   

Fourth quarter diluted earnings per share of $0.41 included a previously announced credit reserve build that cost $0.27 per share, largely for expected future losses in our home equity portfolio originated in certain indirect channels through which we are no longer accepting business. To date the financial services industry has announced over $100 billion in credit reserve builds and asset write-downs. While we were not immune to the adverse economic environment, we largely avoided many of the problems and costly write-downs that other large financial institutions incurred.   

The $1.4 billion credit provision in excess of charge-offs we took in the fourth quarter to build reserves represents less than 2% after-tax of our common equity. Significantly less as a percent of capital than almost all the financial institutions which have announced credit related write-downs or reserve builds. We had double-digit revenue growth of 10.4% for the full-year and revenue rose to a record $10.2 billion in the fourth quarter, up 8% year-over-year on 20% loan growth, 11% core deposit growth and 8% fee growth.   

Since we grew revenue more than expenses for the year we once again had positive operating leverage, reflecting this strong revenue growth combined with disciplined expense management. Our pretax, pre-provision profit, that is our total revenue less non-interest expense, grew to an annual record of $16.6 billion for the year, up 12% from 2006 and grew to a quarterly record of $4.3 billion, up 8% from fourth quarter 2006 and 12% annualized linked quarter.   

I want to start with our typical review of how our diversified businesses performed and how broadbased our growth drivers continue to be in both our commercial and consumer businesses. I will then review our credit quality across our various loan portfolios. Let me start with our commercial businesses.   

Our wholesale and commercial banking group which serves primarily middle market customers and select niches in the large corporate market had a strong quarter and year with double-digit net income and revenue growth. These results reflect our ongoing focus on developing long-term relationships while avoiding riskier, one-off transactions. Net income grew 20% from the fourth quarter of 2006, and revenue grew 14%, reflecting strong growth in commercial loans and business deposits and fee-based businesses, such as asset management, insurance and international.   

Our wholesale banking group achieved record earnings in each of the past nine years, including 2007. Cross-sell was 6.1 products per wholesale relationship and 7.6 products per middle market relationship. 31% of middle market offices located in 30 states coast-to-coast have over 8 products per customer. Wholesale banking group's average loans grew 27% year-over-year as a result of new customers and opportunistic loan portfolio acquisitions.   

Asset-based lending, middle market lending, commercial real estate and specialized financial services which include our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies all experienced double-digit loan growth. Throughout the market disruption we have been very clear that we are open for business and we have been actively meeting the financing needs of our commercial customers. However, we remain focused on making quality loans and on maintaining the continued low level of loan losses in our wholesale group which I will describe in a moment.   

This reflects the benefit of the long-standing relationship orientation and conservative underwriting in this business. Wholesale banking group's average core deposits were up $18 billion or 40% from the fourth quarter of 2006. The growth came primarily from large corporate and middle market relationships, international and correspondent and banking customers and from higher institutional sweep and liquidity balances from our asset management customers.   

The international group had double-digit revenue and earnings growth for the quarter and for the year. Due to volatility in the currency and credit markets, the foreign exchange group traded a record $16 billion per day in transactions during the quarter, and quarterly volumes were up 51% from a year ago. We have foreign exchange sales and tradings desks in San Francisco, New York, Minneapolis and sales offices in 11 other markets. We also serve our customers through foreign exchange online, the online foreign exchange platform on our industry-leading commercial electronic office portal. More than 70% of our commercial banking relationships are active users of our online business portal.   

Foreign exchange online grew revenue 24% in the fourth quarter. We serve our retail and small-business customers through approximately 325 international teller locations in our banking stores with 40% revenue growth in the fourth quarter. Despite a weak dollar,  Wells Fargo customers continued to travel overseas with banknote revenue up 25% in 2007.  Wells Fargo [Surance Inc.], our consumer and small-business insurance group, had double-digit revenue, up 32% and double-digit earnings up 45% in the fourth quarter. Strong revenue growth was driven by homeowners insurance, debt cancellation and crop insurance.   

Cross-sell was also a major growth driver with store and phone banker referrals through our insurance agents exceeding $1 million in 2007, up 50% from 2006.  Wells Fargo Insurance Services Inc., our middle market commercial insurance broker, also continued to grow revenue and acquired insurance agencies in Minnesota, New Hampshire, Texas and California in the fourth quarter. A total of 16 insurance agency acquisitions were completed in 2007.   

We continued to make it more convenient for our wholesale customers to do more business with  Wells Fargo. Through our electronic deposit services, including the Internet-based desktop deposit service on several occasions we captured and cleared over one million check images and more than $2 billion in deposits in a single day. In 2007 over 102 million checks were cleared electronically, over three times the total in 2006 and over $232 billion in deposit dollars were received electronically, more than double the amount in 2006.   

Our electronic deposit services included desktop deposit, now account for approximately 12% of our treasury management customers checking deposit volume. Desktop deposit is an important product for us because it adds convenience and flexibility for our customers, reduces our check processing expenses and provides a good source of fee income for our treasury management business.   

The asset management group, which is responsible for managing and administering a total of $644 billion in client assets had double-digit growth in revenue, earnings and assets under management. Assets under management were up 16% from the fourth quarter of 2006.  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, our mutual fund business, grew average assets by 24% from a year ago and ended the year with $155 billion in the fund balances, making it the third largest fund manager among US banks. This growth was driven by strong fund performance and new balances. Over half of the  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds were in the top two Lipper performance quintiles for the past three-year period.  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds won 10 mutual fund education alliance awards, winning over 30% of the total awards, more than any competitor in our category including Vanguard, Fidelity, T. Rowe Price and American Century.   

Our capital markets business was largely not impacted by the credit crunch or market dislocations during the quarter including industry problem areas of collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations and structured investment vehicles. On the investment side of this business we operate within  Wells Fargo's disciplined credit standards and regularly monitor and manage our securities portfolios to provide liquidity for the company and to build long-term portfolio yield.   

From a lending standpoint we have not participated in a significant way in any of the large leveraged buyouts that were covenant-light, and we have minimal direct exposure to hedge funds. Similarly we have not made a market in subprime securities.   

We shift now to our community banking group. Our community banking group, which includes regional banking, wealth management, home equity, mortgage banking and retail Internet had solid revenue growth, up 9% in the fourth quarter and up 11% in 2007. Bottom line results as reported for this business included the credit reserve build of $1.4 billion pretax. Regional banking, serving 11 million households continued to focus on helping customers achieve their financial goals with record core product sales of $19.7 million in 2007, up 11% from 2006 on a comparable basis and 4.7 million core product sales in the fourth quarter, up 12% from the fourth quarter of 2006 on a comparable basis.   

California continued to be one of our fastest-growing states with a 16% increase in core product sales from the fourth quarter of 2006 on a comparable basis. These strong sales results largely reflected greater productivity with core sales per platform banker FTE of 4.93 per day in 2007, up from 4.75 per day in 2006. With over 16,000 platform banker FTE across our 23 banking states, small increases in sales productivity results in meaningful increases in core product sales. The average retail bank household now has 5.5 products with  Wells Fargo, up from 5.2 products a year ago and up from around 3 products in 1998. Six of our 32 regions now have an average retail bank household cross-sell of over 6. 22% of our retail customers had over 8 products with us, our long-term goal, nearly double the amount of customers who bought 8 products five years ago. And in our top region 31% of our customers had over 8 products with us.   

Sales of  Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan were up 22% from the fourth quarter of 2006 purchased by 70% of new check checking account customers. Increased customer penetration and usage of credit and debit cards grew total card fee income by 22% from fourth quarter of 2006, and 19% annualized on a linked quarter basis. At quarter end 37% of our retail bank consumer households had a  Wells Fargo credit card, up from 35% a year ago and up from 24% five years ago.   

Purchase volume on these cards was up 19% from fourth quarter 2006 and average balances were up 28%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card up from 85% five years ago and purchase volume increased by 14% in the fourth quarter from a year ago.  Wells Fargo's best-in-class rewards suite for our credit and debit card customers has contributed to both our growth in balances and purchase volume. In addition, customers are finding our patent pending "My Spending Report", a helpful tool for understanding and managing their spending.   

Average core deposits of $315 billion including $3.6 billion of deposits from Greater Bay Bancorp, an acquisition completed in the fourth quarter, grew 11% from a year ago and 11% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were down $392 million from the fourth quarter of 2006, and down $3 billion from the third quarter of 2007 due to slower mortgage prepayments and the timing of tax payments. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 12% from the fourth quarter of 2006 and 16% annualized on a linked quarter basis.   

Average retail core deposits, which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 6% from a year ago and 10% annualized on a linked quarter basis. The average balance per retail account continued to decline slightly, reflecting the increase in debt service and energy costs faced by many consumers. Deposit mix continued to shift in favor of higher yielding savings and CDs relative to lower cost savings and demand deposit accounts.   

Unlike many of our competitors, we lowered our deposit rates in the fourth quarter in connection with the Fed funds rate cuts while continuing to growth both deposits and net new accounts, positioning us well for the future. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.7% from last year, and small-business checking accounts were up a net 3.6% from last year. California continued to be our fastest-growing market with new consumer checking accounts up a net 5.7%. This is the 10th consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint.   

We have also had good growth in deposit fees which were up 13% from the fourth quarter of 2006. We continued to better meet the financial needs of our small-business customers. 2007 sales of store based business solutions were up 16% from 2006 on a comparable basis, and fourth quarter sales were up 13% from fourth quarter 2006 on a comparable basis.   

Sales of  Wells Fargo business services packages, which include a business checking account and at least three other business products such as a business debit card, business credit card, business savings account or business loan or a line of credit were up 33% and purchased by 44% of new business checking account customers in the fourth quarter. These strong sales results increased our cross-sell to our business banking households to 3.5, up from 3.3 a year ago. Bank loans to small businesses, loans primarily less than $100,000 on our business direct platform, grew 18% from the fourth quarter of 2006.   

We continued to focus on delivering a great experience for our customers and measuring our progress through 50,000 store based customer surveys per month, over 2 million surveys since we began surveying four years ago. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time scores improved 11%, and customer loyalty scores have improved 7% from 2006. One reason for this improvement is the increase in team member engagement. The more engaged our team members are, the better they serve our customers. In 2007 our team member engagement ratio increased to 8.5 to 1, up from 7.1 to 1 in 2006; more than four times the US average of 2 to 1 and up from 2.5 to 1 five years ago. This continued to place  Wells Fargo in the top quartile of all companies in the Gallup team member engagement database.   

Our wealth management group had another outstanding quarter with revenue up 14% from a year ago. These results were driven by double-digit fee deposit and loan growth. We are also attracting new customers and better penetrating our existing customer base with our expanding productline. Strong customer trading activity and the introduction of the  Wells Fargo Cash Sweep, an FDIC deposit suite for brokerage accounts, drove our retail brokerage business to achieve 22% revenue growth and 17% net income growth in the fourth quarter 2007 compared to fourth quarter of 2006. Brokerage assets under administration reached $103 billion, increasing 10% from a year ago.   

WellsTrade, our online brokerage service, introduced new pricing during the first quarter of 2007, offering 100 commission free online trades per year for  Wells Fargo PMA customers. This relationship based pricing offer has increased new account openings by 42%, our self-directed assets under administration by 34% and WellsTrade revenue by 26% from the fourth quarter of 2006.  Wells Fargo wealth management was recently named among the top 10 wealth managers in the United States by Barron's. Recognition and a fly to quality by customers during these challenging economic times continued to generate customer growth for us.   

Wells Fargo continues to be a leader in retail online banking. At year end we had 9.7 million active online consumers, up 13% from a year ago. 65% of all  Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers. We had 980,000 active online small-business customers, up 18% from a year ago. Internet sales continued to be an important channel for overall sales growth with consumer product sales up 29% from the fourth quarter of 2006.   

Wells Fargo launched another component of its  Wells Fargo mobile service, Text Banking. This addition makes  Wells Fargo the first major financial services company in the country to offer its consumer and small-business customers both browser and textbased account access through their mobile devices.   

Let me now shift to mortgage banking. In a year in which many mortgage companies folded and most large originators incurred substantial losses, our mortgage business continued to grow and gain market share as we remained open for business for our existing and new customers. Our owned servicing portfolio grew 12%, ending the year at a record $1.53 trillion. This servicing portfolio growth significantly contributed to the 36% growth in our mortgage banking noninterest income for the year, 23% fourth quarter year-over-year growth. The 73% fourth quarter year-over-year increase in net servicing fee income more than offset the 28% decline in net gains on mortgage loan origination and sales activities, once again demonstrating the value of our balanced mortgage business model.   

Fourth quarter net servicing fee income included a net MSR gain of $280 million consisting of a $1.9 billion reduction in the market value of MSR's due in part to the impact of more than a 40 basis point decline in thirty-year mortgage rates, offset by a $2.2 billion gain on the economic hedge of the MSR. At December 31, the ratio of capitalized MSR's to the total amount of mortgages serviced through others was 1.2%, the lowest ratio in ten quarters and a 15 basis point decline from third quarter of 2007. Net gains on mortgage loan origination and sales activities in the fourth quarter were adversely impacted by continuing illiquidity in the secondary mortgage markets for primarily ARM and nonperforming fixed rate products.   

As a result mortgage origination gains include $119 million of write-down during the fourth quarter to reflect the fair value of the mortgage warehouse and pipeline which is comprised predominantly of prime mortgages. During the quarter nearly $15 billion of our warehouse loans were securitized, and about half retained as securities in our available for sale investment portfolio and very attractive yields. None of these new securities are collateralized by subprime loans.   

In addition to the warehouse markdown mortgage origination gains were reduced by $91 million, primarily to reflect a write-down of repurchase mortgage loans and an increase in the repurchase reserve. Net gain on mortgage loan origination sale activities also included a $58 million reduction in fair value of servicing associated with mortgage loans held for sale.   

During the last half of 2007 we continued to reduce our mortgage banking risk and improve profitability. These efforts combined with a general decline in mortgage demand caused our originations during the fourth quarter to decline to $56 billion, down $12 billion or 17% from the third quarter and down $14 billion or 20% from the fourth quarter of 2006. Much of this decline is attributable to actions we took, such as the tightening credit standards and eliminating certain distribution channels of loan products. Most of the origination decline occurred in the correspondent and wholesale mortgage channels and in home equity originations.   

We remained one of the nation's leading retail mortgage originators with  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage quarterly retail originations totaling $28 billion, down only $1 billion linked quarter and year-over-year. Our applications continued to be strong. At $91 billion mortgage applications in the fourth quarter were seasonally down $4 billion on a linked quarter basis or actually up $1 billion from the fourth quarter of 2006. The unclosed pipeline of mortgage applications stood at a relatively high $43 billion at 12/31/07 down only 10% from a year ago.   

Let me now shift to credit quality. Net charge-offs in the fourth quarter increased to $1.2 billion or 1.28% of loans annualized, up from $892 million in the third quarter. Almost half of the increase was concentrated in our consumer real estate portfolios, largely in home equity products and channels we have now discontinued.   

In the commercial portfolios, the increase in charge-offs were primarily from loans originated through our business direct channel while loss levels in our commercial loans to mid-sized and large corporations continued to remain exceptionally low.   

Total nonperforming assets were $3.87 billion or 1.01% of loans in the fourth quarter compared with $3.18 billion or 0.88% of loans in the third quarter. The majority of the increase in nonperforming assets was concentrated in the first mortgage portfolios consistent with the rise in foreclosure rates in many markets.   

Due to market conditions, it is taking longer to work out foreclosed properties than would typically be the case at stronger stages of the housing cycle. Our nonperforming loan portfolio continued to have relatively low loss potential based on the high percentage of consumer real estate and auto secured loans where we take an initial write-down to estimated net realizable value as the loan is transferred to nonperforming status. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing, excluding insured and guaranteed Ginnie Mae balances, increased by $296 million from the third quarter. This increase was concentrated in our consumer real estate and unsecured portfolios and was consistent with the increases in nonperforming and net charge-offs previously mentioned.   

Let me review the individual loan portfolios in detail. I will start by focusing on our exposure to the residential real estate market. Our first mortgage portfolio continued to perform well in the fourth quarter with annualized charge-offs of only 0.19%. In other words, only $32 million in fourth-quarter losses on the entire $71 billion first mortgage portfolio. The $71 billion of first mortgages that were on our balance sheet at 12-31-2007 consisted primarily of $23 billion of debt consolidation loans at Wells Fargo Financial, $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position and $36 billion of mostly prime customers, relationship-based first mortgages held at  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, [regional banking] and our Wells wealth management group.   

While our disciplined underwriting standards have resulted in first mortgage delinquencies considerably below industry levels, we continued to tighten our underwriting standards in the fourth quarter, including adjusting maximum LTVs based on local market conditions.   

At year end, Wells Fargo Financial had $24 billion in US-based real estate secured debt consolidation loans. These loans offer debt consolidation purposes, not for the purchase of a home. 96% of this portfolio was in the first lien position. Wells Fargo Financial has not originated any interest-only stated income, option ARMs or negative amortizing residential real estate loans. All US-based debt consolidation loans are originated by Wells Fargo Financial team members. We do not use any brokers or correspondence in this business.   

Wells Fargo Financial does not do any national advertising campaigns. New real estate customers, primarily come from outbound calling to customers with an existing  Wells Fargo relationship, and where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations through debt consolidation.   

We conservatively underwrite these loans with full documentation, and we require income verification. 63% of the portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The average LTV was 79%. The average loan size was $130,000. Approximately 49% of the portfolio was fixed rate loans. The remaining were 327 adjustable-rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan. These loans do not contain initial rate adjusters on reset and were underwritten to the fully indexed rate. This prudent product strategy combined with cautious underwriting has resulted in better credit performance than published industry rates for non prime mortgage portfolios.   

While delinquency and charge-offs have increased in this portfolio due to the weak housing market, annualized net charge-offs in the fourth quarter were 31 basis points with total fourth quarter losses of only $18 million on the entire $24 billion portfolio. Our national home equity group manages a portfolio of $84 billion in home equity loans. As we disclosed in November, we have identified $12 billion of higher loss content home equity loans primarily sourced through third party originators, which were segregated into a liquidating portfolio under a dedicated management team.   

The December annualized loss rate in the liquidating portfolio was 4.80%. This portfolio accounted for about half the total increase in home equity charge-offs in the fourth quarter. The liquidating portfolio was primarily sourced through third parties where 55% had an updated combined loan-to-value of greater than 90%. The remaining home equity portfolio of $72 billion had a December annualized loss rate of 0.86%; 16% of this portfolio was in the first position, and 63% in the second lien position were behind a  Wells Fargo first mortgage. 98% were retail originated, which have performed better than loans originated through third party channels. 25% had an updated combined loan-to-value greater than 90%.   

While home equity financing continues to be an important relationship product that helps our customers manage their finances, we have exited most of our indirect wholesale and corresponding channels and tightened underwriting standards throughout our retail channels due to higher losses. As we previously announced,  Wells Fargo is no longer acquiring home equity loans through correspondent relationships and will no longer originate home equity loans through wholesalers unless the second mortgage is behind a  Wells Fargo first mortgage and the combined loan-to-value ratio of the first and second mortgage is less than 90%.   

In our continuing channels we have developed MSA based combined loan-to-value maximums based on market conditions which are reviewed monthly. For example, in severely distressed markets the maximum combined loan-to-value is 75%. We have eliminated borrower selected reduced income documentation home equity loans. We have also reorganized the home equity business within our community banking segment to enhance the execution of our relationship based strategy. While we do not retain credit risk on the majority of our residential mortgage servicing portfolio, which services over 10 million mortgages, we closely monitor the credit performance of the portfolio. Over 90% of the mortgage loans we service are for prime customers.   

The vast majority of the sub prime loans we service are held by investors, and the sub prime loans originated by  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage have historically had foreclosures that are half that of loans not originated by our company. This outperformance is primarily a result of our long-standing responsible lending practices, which include focusing on the customer's ability to repay, providing the customer with the information needed to make fully informed decisions and making only those loans that provide demonstrable benefit to the customer. Delinquencies and foreclosures continued to increase as the housing market remained weak. However, only 0.88% of our servicing portfolio, less than 1%, was in foreclosure.   

Throughout 2007 our foreclosure rate was more than 20% better than the industry average. We work hard at keeping people in their homes. For example,  Wells Fargo works closely with the U.S. Treasury Department, federal banking regulators, the Hope Now Alliance and the American Securitization Forum to help launch fast-track for subprime ARM loan modifications and refinances. We will launch the fast-track program this month, and we continue to work to find additional ways to further assist our customers with delinquencies.   

While loan modifications and foreclosures increase our servicing costs, many of these costs are reimbursed by investors, and we continued to have efficiency gains in other areas. We continue to proactively staff our call centers in order to provide high-quality assistance for our customers.   

Credit losses in our $27 billion auto portfolio at Wells Fargo Financial increased due primarily to expected seasonality in the second half of the year, including fourth quarter. Net auto charge-offs increased $21 million from the prior quarter and were up $10 million from the fourth quarter of 2006. Delinquencies and 90 days past due and still accruing were up on a linked quarter basis, but 90 days past due were down 19% from the fourth quarter 2006 peak. Over 70% of the auto portfolio had FICO scores above 620. The size of our auto portfolio was essentially unchanged from last quarter and last year, reflecting tightening of account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume and higher risk tiers.   

Two other retail portfolios that are important to our credit performance, our credit card and business direct. The $11 billion community banking credit card portfolio was primarily issued to our banking customers within our banking states. Our relationship focus helps us to control loss rates, but losses are increasing from historical low levels as a result of higher bankruptcy rates and seasoning of the portfolio.   

In response, we proactively manage these accounts by maintaining good collection capacity and modifying existing accounts including reducing lines and closing accounts where appropriate. Wells Fargo Financial has a $7.7 billion credit card portfolio. These cards are primarily sold to existing Wells Fargo Financial customers and through retail stores and manufacturers with large dealer networks, not through mass mailing campaigns. Losses in this portfolio have increased, however we have made significant investments in default management and continue to tighten underwriting standards, a process that first started in the middle of 2006.   

Our $11.6 billion business direct portfolio consists primarily of unsecured small loans and lines of credit to small-business owners nationwide with an average balance of less than $20,000. These loans are included in our commercial loan totals, but tend to perform in a manner similar to credit cards and unsecured consumer loans. Similar to our credit card portfolios, we continue to tighten our underwriting standards including reducing line limits where appropriate.   

Our remaining commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continue to produce good credit performance and healthy loan growth. This segment of our lending business benefits from our focus on deep and long-term relationships with middle market, commercial, commercial real estate and small-business customers as well as from diversifying the portfolio geographically and by product type. At year end 2007 we had approximately $6 billion in residential one-to-four family construction and land development loans which is only about 1.5% of total loans.   

While losses in this portfolio are increasing due to the decline in residential real estate market losses remained acceptable because we maintained our credit discipline during the boom times of the real estate market. Our commercial real estate management team has been together for over 20 years, and they have successfully managed the commercial real estate portfolio through numerous cycles and their experience is invaluable during the current real estate cycle.   

With the additional $1.4 billion of loan loss provision above charge-offs in the fourth quarter, largely from home equity losses, our allowance for credit losses was $5.5 billion, up 37% from the third quarter. We believe the allowance is adequate for losses inherent in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2007.   

In summary, the high credit losses we experienced late in the year were due in part to overall portfolio growth and the expected seasoning of portfolios following many quarters of unusually low loss rates. In addition, we experienced typical second half seasonality especially in auto, higher loss rates in the liquidating home equity portfolio which is now in runoff mode, and somewhat higher loss rates in the higher loan-to-value tier of the remaining home equity portfolio.   

While continuing to prudently provide credit to existing and new customers throughout 2007, we took aggressive action to exit higher risk indirect channels, slow growth in the ongoing home equity and auto portfolios by eliminating and/or tightening higher risk tiers, focused resources ahead of the curve on early problem resolution and enhance our collection and customer management processes. Given the weakness in housing and the overall state of the US economy it is likely that charge-offs will be higher in 2008 than they were in 2007. But we believe our business model, the actions we have already taken to reduce risk and our deep experienced team which has successfully managed through many prior cycles will position us properly for the challenges that may be ahead, especially relative to our large bank peers.   

On December 31, 2007 shareholders equity was $48 billion, up $2 billion from a year ago. Our leverage tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 6.83%, 7.59% and 10.68%, respectively. Our capital ratios remained very strong, reflecting our ongoing focus on producing high risk-adjusted returns in all of our activities and in turn giving us capacity to continue to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities to produce strong returns for our shareholders.   

In the fourth quarter we repurchased 83 million shares of  Wells Fargo common stock. In 2007 overall we repurchased 220 million shares, all but $80 million of which have been used to complete the acquisition of Placer Sierra Bancshares and Greater Bay Bancorp, and also for employee stock option exercises, 401(k) match contributions and other employee benefit plans. At December 31, 2007, 42 million shares remain available for repurchase under Board authority.   

One opportunity in a challenging environment provides is the potential to do more acquisitions. Because of our strong balance sheet we are in a strong position to take advantage of well-priced transactions. However, our disciplined M&A strategy has not changed, and we remain focused on niche opportunities that add to stockholder value. We will not do any acquisitions unless they meet our long-standing financial criteria for accretion and returns. During the quarter we completed the acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp with $7.4 billion in assets, our third-largest bank acquisition in our company's history, making 2007 our most active banking deal year since 2000.   

We also just announced our agreement to acquire the banking operations of United Bancorporation of Wyoming with $1.7 billion in assets. After completing this acquisition  Wells Fargo will be the number one in both deposits and assets among banks in Wyoming, the nation's ninth fastest-growing state.   

Our preferred use of capital is to invest in our businesses, particularly to build and strengthen our distribution. In 2007 we opened 87 banking stores and converted 42 banking stores from acquisitions bringing our total retail store count to 3298. We also added eight new commercial offices and continued to add to our ATM network, adding 153 new Web enabled ATMs and converting 908 to envelope-free ATMs during the year. We added a total of 578 platform banker FTEs in 2007 through both hiring and acquisitions.   

The company's effective tax rate for full-year 2007 was 30.7% compared with 33.44% for 2006. Income tax expense for 2007 included FIN 48 tax benefits of $235 million for the full year, of which $130 million was in the fourth quarter. As well as the impact of lower pretax earnings in relation to the level of tax exempt income and tax credits. The tax benefits recorded in 2007 primarily related to the resolution of certain matters with federal and state taxing authorities and statute expirations, reduced by accruals for uncertain tax positions in accordance with FASB interpretation number 48.   

In summary, despite a turbulent housing market and credit crunch, 2007 was another solid year for  Wells Fargo with double-digit revenue, double-digit loan and double-digit deposit growth; increases in market share and wallet share as well as effective expense management. While we did have an increase in credit costs, our costs were lower compared with most of those peers who also experienced credit and/or asset write-downs. Our absolute and relative liquidity in capital positioned us better than peers to take advantage of opportunities as asset risk becomes properly priced.   

We look forward to taking advantage of these opportunities while maintaining our long-standing financial discipline in 2008. Thank you for listening, and if you have any questions please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020080123e41g0008f
  


 HD
 Q3  2007  Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final   
   WC
6,148 words
   PD
16 October 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP OF IR, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the  Wells Fargo third-quarter 2007 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our third-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.   

In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition such as statements about credit quality and future credit losses generally and specifically that credit losses in the home equity portfolio are likely to increase in the fourth quarter of 2007 and remain elevated into 2008.   

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.   

For discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our third-quarter results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.   

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.   

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP AND CFO, WELLS FARGO & CO.: Thanks Bob. The third quarter was a challenging quarter for the industry with a downturn in the national housing market, deterioration in the capital markets, a widening of credit spreads, increases in market volatility and changes in interest rates.   

While  Wells Fargo is not immune to the environment, the diversity of our business model and our long-standing financial discipline resulted in solid quarterly results with a 6% increase in earnings per share to a record $0.68 per share, double-digit revenue growth driven by double-digit growth in loans, double-digit growth in core deposits and double-digit growth in fee income, and continued strong operating margins including positive operating leverage.   

Many of our businesses were able to take advantage of the opportunities in the marketplace to attract new customers and meet more of their customers' financial needs.   

I want to start with our typical review of how our diversified businesses performed and how broad based our growth drivers continue to be in both our commercial and consumer businesses. Throughout this discussion of business segment results, I will include how the third-quarter credit crunch impacted each business positively and negatively. I will then review our credit quality across our various loan portfolios.   

Let me start with our commercial businesses. Our wholesale and commercial banking group which serves primarily middle market customers and select niches in the large corporate market continued to perform well despite the challenging environment. This is a testament to our strategy of developing long-term deep relationships with businesses rather than one-off transactions.   

Net income grew 6% from a year ago; revenue grew 12% reflecting strong growth in commercial loans and business deposits and in fee-based businesses such as asset management, insurance and international. Cross sell reached a new record with 6.1 products per wholesale relationship and 7.4 products for middle market relationship.   

Wholesale banking group's average loans grew by 21% year-over-year and 29% annualized linked quarter. Asset based lending, international, commercial real estate, and specialized financial services which include our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies all experienced double-digit loan growth.   

Average commercial and commercial real estate loans which includes commercial loans in our wholesale segment as well as commercial loans in other segments such as small business, increased 16% from the third quarter of 2006 and 24% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Our commercial and commercial real estate loans have increased for 16 consecutive quarters and have grown at a double-digit rate year-over-year for 12 consecutive quarters.   

The acquisition of CIT's Construction leasing business added $2.6 billion to quarterly average loans or about one-third of the total 24% linked quarter growth. The disruption in the capital markets has not had a material impact on our wholesale customers. Commercial paper back up lines remain largely undrawn at  Wells Fargo, approximately $10 billion in commitments with only approximately $400 million drawn at quarter end.   

Wholesale banking group's average core deposits were up $19 billion from the third quarter of 2006 which included certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds post conversion to deposits, wholesale banking's average core deposits were up 37%. This growth was the result of higher balance growth from existing customers and new relationships, primarily in corporate banking and deposits from foreign central banks and from international customers doing business in the United States.   

The international group once again had double-digit revenue in earnings growth from the third quarter of 2006. Due to volatility in the currency and credit markets, the foreign exchange group traded a record $17 billion per day in transactions during August while quarterly volumes were up 28% from a year ago.   

We have foreign exchange trading desks in San Francisco, in New York and Minneapolis and sales offices in 11 other markets. We also serve our customers through foreign exchange online, the online foreign exchange platform on our industry leading commercial electronic office portal. More than 70% of our commercial banking relationships are active users of our online business portal.   

Foreign exchange online grew revenue 18% in the third quarter. We serve our retail and small-business customers through 300 international teller locations in our banking stores with 40% revenue growth in the third quarter.   

The asset management group, which is responsible for managing and administering a total of $645 billion in client assets, had double-digit growth in revenue, earnings and assets under management. Assets under management were up 14% from the third quarter of 2006.   

Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, our mutual fund business, grew assets by 19% from a year ago and ended the quarter with $143 billion in fund balances. This growth was driven by strong fund performance and new balances. Half of the  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds were in the top two Lipper performance quintiles for the past three-year period. We have minimal exposure to CLOs as an adviser or investor and we do not hold any CDO, subprime backed or single seller asset-backed commercial paper obligations in our money market mutual funds.   

Total  Wells Fargo trust and investment management fees across all business segments grew 17% from the third quarter of 2006 to $777 million, representing about 17% of total fee income in the third quarter. Insurance fee income grew 5% from a year ago driven by new customer growth and cross-sell; on a linked quarter basis, insurance decline in line with normal seasonality.   

Commercial real estate brokerage fees were up 62% from a year ago although declining from the record volume set in the second quarter. Much of the linked quarter declines in both insurance and real estate brokerage fees were offset by related declines in expenses in these two businesses.   

Our capital markets activities showed good results in the quarter and were largely not impacted by the credit crunch or market dislocation. We have not significantly participated in any of the recently publicized large leveraged buyouts; we did not create any structured investment vehicles to hold off-balance sheet assets and have no current plans to do so; exposure to CDOs is minimal; we have no direct exposure to hedge funds; we have never made markets and sublime mortgage securities and consequently, did not need to write down any of that kind of debt security.   

Commercial mortgages originated and held for sale were about $1.5 billion on average and experienced negligible losses in the quarter. Our modest high yield bond portfolio is well diversified, was hedged and incurred minimal net losses and we wrote down commercial loans held for sale by $20 million in our securities investment business recorded in other noninterest income.   

Our Community Banking group, which includes regional banking, wealth management, mortgage banking and retail Internet, had a good quarter with 12% revenue growth and 8% earnings growth from the third quarter of 2006. Regional banking serving 11 million households achieved a record cross-sell of 5.5 products per household, up from 5.1 products a year ago and up from around 3 products in 1998. 22% of our retail customers had over 8 products with us, our long-term goal, up from around 12% five years ago. And in our top region, 31% of our customers had over 8 products with us.   

During the third quarter, core product sales were a record 5.25 million up 9% from the prior year on a comparable basis. California continued to be one of our fastest-growing states with a 16% increase in core product sales from the third quarter of 2006 on a comparable basis. Sales of  Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, a credit card, a savings account or a home equity loan, were up 13% from the third quarter of 2006 and were purchased by 69% of new checking account customers.   

Increased customer penetration and usage of credit and debit cards grew card fee income by 21% from the third quarter of 2006 and 34% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. At quarter end, 37% of our retail bank consumer households had a  Wells Fargo credit card, up from 34% a year ago and up from 24% five years ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 20% from a year ago and average balances were up 27%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 85% five years ago and purchase volume increased by 11% from a year ago.   

Wells Fargo's best-in-class rewards suite for our credit and debit card customers has contributed to both our growth in balances and to purchase volume. In addition, customers are finding our patent pending "My Spending Report", a helpful tool for understanding and managing their spending.   

Average core deposits of $306 billion included certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds from the date of their conversion deposits or only deposits that were new to  Wells Fargo, average core deposits grew 11% from a year ago and 7% analyzed on a linked-quarter basis.   

Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $3 billion from the third quarter of 2006 and down $1 billion from the second quarter of 2007. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 13% from the third quarter of 2006 and 9% analyzed on a linked-quarter basis. Average retail core deposits, which exclude Wholesale Banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 7% from a year ago and 1% analyzed on a linked-quarter basis.   

The average balance per retail account declined slightly in the third quarter as consumers were forced to pay higher interest on their loans. However, we continue to have good account growth positioning us well for the future. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.8% from last year and small-business checking accounts were up a net 4.3% from last year.   

California continued to be our fastest-growing market with checking accounts up a net 5.9%. This is the ninth consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint. While some of our competitors in California increased their deposit rates during the quarter, we have not. We nevertheless have continued to grow accounts by offering our customers better service and more convenience.   

Although we did not raise rates on our deposit products during the third quarter and actually reduced rates early in the fourth quarter in response to the Fed rate cut, our overall average cost of deposits increased during the third quarter as the growth in interest bearing checking and savings accounts and consumer CDs continued to exceed the growth in non-interest-bearing accounts, a trend that is consistent with the national monetary aggregates.   

Small business continues to be one of our best opportunities for growth. Sales of store-based business solutions were up 16% from last year on a comparable basis. Sales of  Wells Fargo business services packages, which includes a business checking account and at least three other business products such as a business debit card, business credit card, business savings account or business loan or line of credit, were up 31% and purchased by 43% of new business checking account customers.   

These strong sales results increased our cross-sell to our business banking households to 3.5 up from 3.2 a year ago. Bank loans to small businesses, loans less than $100,000 on our business direct platform grew 19% from third quarter of 2006. From December 2005 to August 2007, in footprint single product, small-business households declined from 29.5% to 24.1% of total small-business households, an 18% improvement.   

We continue to focus on delivering a great experience for our customers and measuring our progress through 50,000 store-based customer surveys a month, over 1.9 million surveys to date. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time scores improved 16% and customer loyalty scores have improved 9% from the third quarter of 2006.   

Our wealth management group had an outstanding quarter with revenue up 20% and earnings up 24% from a year ago. These results were driven by double-digit noninterest income deposit and loan growth. Strong trading activity by our customers increased brokerage revenue by 31% and net income increased 51% from the third quarter of 2006. Brokerage assets under administration reached record levels increasing 15% from a year ago.   

Wells Trade, our online brokerage service, introduced new pricing during the first quarter offering 100 commission free online trades per year for  Wells Fargo PMA customers. This relationship based pricing offer has increased new account openings by 15%, our self-directed assets under administration by 52%, and revenue by 36% since the third quarter of 2006.   

Wells Fargo continues to be a leader in retail online banking. At quarter end, we had 9.5 million active online consumers, up 14% from a year ago. 64% of all  Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers. We had 950,000 active online small-business customers, up 19% from a year ago. Internet sales continue to be an important channel for overall sales growth with consumer product sales up 31%, consumer checking accounts up 21%, consumer savings accounts up 22%, and consumer credit products up 20% from the third quarter of 2006.   

During the quarter we launched  Wells Fargo Mobile for consumers and small-business customers allowing them to use the browser on their web enabled mobile device to check account balances, new transaction history and transfer funds between  Wells Fargo accounts.   

Let me now talk about mortgage banking. Notwithstanding the sharp downturn in the housing sector, the widening of nonconforming credit spreads and the lack of liquidity in the nonconforming secondary markets, our mortgage banking results in the third quarter were relatively strong overall. Our long-standing responsible lending practices and policies, our leadership role in the industry, our risk management discipline and most importantly the balance we have in our mortgage business with complementary origination and servicing strengths, enabled us to continue to grow revenue in the third quarter while at the same time reducing risk.   

Throughout the market turmoil,  Wells Fargo remained open for business and our reputation, commitment to the mortgage business and financial strength became particularly attractive to more homeowners, more real estate agents, more builders and other referral sources. At $95 billion, mortgage applications were down $19 billion on a linked-quarter basis in part due to typical seasonal declines in the post spring home buying season but were actually the same volume of applications as the year ago quarter.   

At $68 billion, originations were similarly down about 15% on a linked-quarter basis with most of the decline in originations occurring in the correspondent and wholesale channels as we exited the nonprime correspondent channel in the second quarter, exited the nonprime wholesale channel in the third quarter and adjusted pricing on most nonconforming wholesale and correspondent mortgage products throughout the quarter. Less than half of our total originations have typically been through the wholesale and correspondent channels compared with typically 70% or more nonretail for the larger peer competitors.   

We remained one of the latest nation's leading retail mortgage originators with  Wells Fargo home mortgage retail originations totaling $29 billion, the same volume as a year ago and down only 9% on a linked-quarter basis. The secondary market for agency conforming mortgages functioned well for most of the quarter. However, with overall secondary market spreads widening, gain on sale margins worsened for most of the quarter but margins have since improved slightly.   

The warehouse and pipeline which is predominately prime mortgages, was written down by $378 million in the quarter to reflect the unusual widening and largely nonconforming versus conforming secondary market spreads. Many of these assets were then securitized and a large portion retained as securities in our available for sale investment portfolio at very attractive yields. None of these new securities are collateralized by subprime loans.   

In addition to the warehouse markdown, mortgage originations gains were reduced by $112 million primarily to reflect a write-down of repurchase mortgage loans and an increase in the repurchased reserve. The decline in mortgage origination fees was more than made up by higher servicing revenue, once again demonstrating the value of our balanced mortgage business model. Mortgage servicing income grew due to volume. The owned servicing portfolio of $1.5 trillion at quarter end was up 11% from a year ago and also due to strong hedging results.   

While servicing income was reduced by $638 million due to the impact of over a 30 basis point decline in 30-year mortgage rates on the market value of MSRs during the quarter, the gain on the economic hedge of the MSR was $1.2 billion.   

Three factors contributed to this solid net hedging result. First, the same widening of mortgage spreads due to illiquidity and market estimates of slower prepayments that negatively impacted the value of the mortgage warehouse positively impacted the value of the MSR asset.   

Second, we positioned ourselves during the height of the MBS market turmoil to benefit from a flight to quality by holding proportionately more of our economic hedges of the MSR in non-mortgage-backed security instruments like treasury futures and options, swaps and options on swaps. We were able to reverse this positioning and lock in the flight to quality gains as the MBS market recovered later in the quarter.   

And third, on balance we maintained a proportionately larger economic hedge on the MSR asset in part due to the replacement of MBS securities which are recorded in debt securities results with off-balance sheet economic hedges which are accounted for in mortgage hedging results. At September 30th, the ratio of capitalized MSR to the total amount of mortgages serviced for others was 1.35%, the lowest ratio in eight quarters.   

Finally we continue to reduce expenses in the mortgage business with expenses down 20% analyzed on a linked-quarter basis and in the process we incurred approximately $14 million in severance and related shutdown costs.   

Let me now shift to credit quality. Net credit losses increased to $892 million or 1.01% of average loans annualized, up from $720 million in the second quarter of 2007. Almost half of the increase in net credit losses was concentrated in the home equity portfolio. As indicated previously, we have been projecting higher home equity credit losses for a while although losses in this portfolio accelerated in the third quarter due to the steeper than anticipated decline in national home prices.   

The remainder of the increase in credit losses was concentrated in the auto portfolio largely due to typical seasonal factors with modest increases in unsecured consumer credit portfolios largely due to growth. Total non-performing assets were $3.18 billion or 0.88% of loans in the third quarter compared with $2.72 billion or 0.79% of loans in the second quarter.   

Our nonperforming loan portfolio continued to have relatively low loss potential based on the high percentage of consumer real estate and auto secured loans where we take an initial write-down to estimated net realizable value as the loan is transferred to nonperforming status. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing, excluding insured and guaranteed Ginny Mae balances, increased by $177 million from the second quarter. This increase is concentrated in our consumer real estate and unsecured portfolios and is consistent with the increases in nonperforming and net credit losses previously mentioned.   

I'd like to start by focusing on our exposure to the real estate market. Our first mortgage portfolio continued to perform very well in the third quarter with annualized losses of 0.11%, down from 0.13% in the second quarter, only $16 million in third-quarter losses on the entire $67 billion first mortgage portfolio.   

The $67 billion of first mortgages that were on our balance sheet at September 30, 2007, consisted primarily of $23 billion of debt consolidation loans at Wells Fargo Financial; $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position; and $31 billion of largely prime customers relationship based first mortgages held at  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage Regional Banking and our Wealth Management group.   

While our disciplined underwriting standards have resulted in first mortgage delinquencies considerably below industry levels, we continued to tighten our underwriting standards in the third quarter.  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage closed the nonprime wholesale channel early in the quarter after closing the nonprime correspondent channel in the second quarter. Pricing was increased for nonconforming mortgage loans during the quarter reflecting the reduced liquidity in the capital markets.   

At quarter end, Wells Fargo Financial had $24 billion in U.S.-based real estate secured debt consolidation loans. These loans are for debt consolidation purposes, not for the purchase of the home. This means our customers are not incurring significant new financial obligations and in fact, their total monthly credit payments are typically lower than they were prior to taking out the debt consolidation loan. 96% of this portfolio is in a first lien position. Annualized net charge-offs at quarter end in this portfolio were less than 20 basis points with third-quarter losses of the only $10 million.   

Our delinquency and foreclosure rates for this portfolio remained significantly better than published industry rates for nonprime mortgage portfolios. This portfolio continued to perform better than the rest of the industry's nonprime mortgage portfolios because of the nature of the product, the type of customers who buy this product as well as the long-standing discipline with which these loans have always been underwritten and managed at  Wells Fargo.

Wells Fargo Financial has not originated any interest-only, stated income, option ARMs or negative amortizing residential real estate loans. All U.S.-based debt consolidation loans are originated by Wells Fargo Financial team members. We do not use any brokers or correspondents in this business.   

Wells Fargo Financial does not do any national advertising campaigns. New real estate customers primarily come from outbound calling to customers with an existing  Wells Fargo relationship and where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations through debt consolidation. We conservatively underwrite these loans with full documentation and require income verification. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 642 and 64% of the portfolio had a FICO above 620.   

The average loan to value was 77%; the average loan size was $127,000. Approximately 46% of the portfolio was fixed-rate loans, the remaining loans were 3-27 adjustable-rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan. We underwrite these adjustable-rate loans to the fully indexed rate to ensure the customers' ability to afford their payments.   

In the third quarter, 57% of new originations were fixed-rate loans. This prudent product strategy combined with cautious underwriting has resulted in stable and predictable credit performance. Our national home equity group manages a portfolio of $83 billion of home equity loans including the $12 billion that are in the first position.   

Net credit losses in the third quarter for the national home equity group were $157 million or 0.77% of average loans annualized, up $68 million from the second quarter when losses were 0.44% of loans annualized. The increase in losses in this portfolio is primarily a severity issue, not a frequency issue and its concentrated in the highest combined LTV loans. The increase in severity reflects the decline in national home prices with certain markets in the Midwest and California's Central Valley seeing somewhat more stress.   

The difference between frequency and severity is most clearly demonstrated by the fact that while our losses increased, 98.7% of our home equity customers were still paying us on time. The majority of the home equity portfolio, which would be loans originated through our retail stores or through cross-sell with  Wells Fargo home mortgage, had a slight increase in losses but within acceptable ranges that are consistent with our risk-based pricing structure.   

The bulk of the actual deterioration in the home equity portfolio has come from our correspondent channel where we purchased closed loans from third-party originators. Specifically correspondent home equity loans represented about 7% of our total home equity loans outstanding but accounted for 25% of our third-quarter home equity losses with an annualized loss rate in excess of 3%. As this adverse trend emerged, we tightened credit standards earlier in 2007 and completely eliminated this channel during the third quarter. Correspondent loans represented less than 7% of  Wells Fargo's home equity volume in the first half of 2007.   

In response to the decline in the housing market, the National Home Equity Group has taken a number of actions to adjust pricing and to tighten credit standards including reducing the maximum loan-to-value for all sales channels. However, given the current real estate market conditions, credit losses in the home equity portfolio are likely to increase in the fourth quarter and remain elevated into 2008.   

While we do not retain any significant credit risk on our $1.4 trillion residential mortgage servicing portfolio which serves over 10 million first mortgage and home equity loans, we closely monitor the credit performance of this portfolio. Over 90% of the mortgage loans we service are for prime customers. We value and price our servicing based on expected repayment performance so that we are properly compensated for the added work related to potentially higher delinquency in the subprime portfolios.   

We also price servicing based on the origination channel with better credit performance in our retail originations versus third-party origination channels. While delinquencies and foreclosures are increasing, only 0.66% of our servicing portfolio, in other words, less than 1%, was in foreclosure at quarter end which is below the industry average.   

We work hard at keeping people in their homes. In fact,  Wells Fargo last week helped to launch the national Hope Now Alliance to reach at risk homeowners facing difficulty in making their payments. The Alliance includes mortgage servicers, counselors and capital markets investors. Making contact with at risk borrowers is our biggest challenge.   

Throughout the industry, of those consumers who lose a home to foreclosure, around 50% have never been in contact with their mortgage servicer. When contact occurs at the first sign of trouble before the weight of past due payments, we have a greater chance of helping our customers find options. We are reaching out to ARM customers six months prior to reset with proactive calls and letters and have established a dedicated toll-free number so customers can connect easily with a  Wells Fargo team member. In the last 18 months we have doubled our team members that directly assist customers with active efforts to help find work out solutions.   

Credit losses in our $28 billion auto portfolio increased due primarily to expected seasonality in the second half of the year. Net auto losses increased $57 million from the prior quarter. Year-over-year, net auto losses were down $32 million demonstrating that credit performance has stabilized as we continue to refine the indirect auto business model.   

Delinquencies have increased due to seasonality but loans 90 days past due and still accruing continue to improve and were down 9% from the second quarter and down 42% from the fourth quarter peak. Over 70% of the auto portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The size of our auto portfolio was essentially unchanged from last quarter reflecting tightening of account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume and higher risk tiers. Nearly 80% of new originations in the third quarter had a FICO score above 620.   

Two other retail portfolios that are important to our credit performance are credit card and business direct. The $11 billion Community Banking credit card portfolio was primly issued to our banking customers within our banking states. Our $11 billion business direct portfolio consists of small loans and lines of credit originated to small-business owners nationwide. These businesses continue to produce healthy loan growth and execute underwriting, account management and collection practices with predictable results within acceptable risk parameters, typically better than industry norms.   

Delinquency in net credit losses are modestly higher due to slightly higher consumer bankruptcy rates and the continued pressure of the weak residential real estate market on these unsecured portfolios. Our commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continued to produce strong credit performance and healthy loan growth. This segment of our lending business is benefiting from our focus on deep and long-term relationships with middle market customers, regional commercial real estate and geographically diverse small-business lending.   

Our $5.9 billion residential one to four family construction and land development loan portfolio which is less than 2% of total loans, continues to perform satisfactorily and has experienced only isolated and small problems. We placed $97 million in loans to one large California residential developer on non-accrual in the third quarter after working closely with the customer for over a year. The $124 million increase in commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans primarily reflects this one loan.   

Let me now shift to capital management and balance sheet management. On September 30, shareholders equity was $48 billion, up $3 billion from $45 billion a year ago. Our leverage Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 7.29%, 8.21%, and 11.11% respectively. Our capital ratios remained very strong reflecting our ongoing focus on producing high risk-adjusted returns in all of our activities and in turn giving us capacity to continue to take advantage of attractive growth opportunities to produce strong returns for our shareholders.   

In the third quarter, we repurchased 60 million shares of  Wells Fargo common stock. Year-to-date, we have repurchased 137 million shares all but 11 million of which have been used to complete the acquisition of the Placer Sierra Bancshares and Greater Bay Bancorp and for employee stock option exercises, 401(k) match contributions and employee benefit plans. At September 30, 49 million shares remained available for repurchase on the Board authority.   

Our merger and acquisition strategy remains focused on niche opportunities adding to stockholder value. We will not do any acquisitions unless they meet our long-standing financial criteria for accretion and returns.   

On October 1, we completed the acquisition of Greater Bay Bancorp with $7.4 billion in assets, our third largest bank acquisition in our Company's history. With 41 banking stores across the San Francisco Bay area, Greater Bay will enable us to better serve our community banking, commercial insurance brokerage, specialty finance and trust customers. Given the challenging environment, we expect to see additional acquisition and portfolio purchase opportunities.   

Our preferred use of capital is to invest in our businesses, particularly to build and strengthen our distribution. In the third quarter of 2007, we opened 20 banking stores and converted 39 Placer Sierra Bancshares stores to our network bringing our total retail store count 3283. We continue to add to our ATM network adding 49 new web enabled ATMS and converting 199 envelope free ATMS during the quarter. We added 647 platform banker FTEs from the third quarter of 2006.   

As indicated earlier in my remarks, the investment securities portfolio which had been increased in the second quarter when yields rose was reduced during the third quarter. Taking advantage of an opportunity between the spot MBS market and the forward securities market, the price of about $24 billion in mortgage-backed securities sales was locked in through a forward sale rather than an outright sale of the particular securities.   

While there was essentially no net impact on third-quarter earnings from this combination of transactions, the modest decline in yields between the time of the forward sale and the delivery of the MBSs to settle the forwards resulted in a commensurate gain on the underlying bonds which was recognized as gains in the available for sales security line item and offset by a loss in the forward hedge which was reflected in other income trading.   

As previously disclosed, the increase in average assets for the quarter was the principal reason net interest margin declined in the third quarter. Late in the third quarter, $17 billion of new loans and securities were added at higher yields than the MBSs securities that were sold which will help fourth quarter net interest margin.   

The Company did not issue any long-term debt in the quarter in view of the temporary impact of the market's dislocation on debt issuance costs which have since subsided. Temporarily elevated short-term LIBOR rates at the peak of the dislocation adversely impacted short-term costs by about $15 million.   

In terms of our tax rate, there were no significant tax costs or benefits in the quarter. The effective tax rate was 34% this quarter compared with 34% in the second quarter, 33% year-to-date, and 32% in the third quarter of 2006.   

In summary, in conclusion, while we are not immune to the slowdown in the housing market or the turbulent credit markets, our results in the third quarter demonstrated the absolute and relative advantages of our diversified business model, long-standing financial discipline, conservative risk management practices and strong balance sheet and capital ratios. We are well positioned to take advantage of the growth opportunities presented in this challenging environment.   

Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | c11 : Plans/Strategy | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020071023e3ag000gs
  


 HD
 Q2  2007  Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Record Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
5,939 words
   PD
17 July 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP, IR, WELLS FARGO: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the  Wells Fargo second-quarter 2007 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our second-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, such as statements about credit quality and future credit losses generally.   

   TD
Examples of forward-looking statements made in today's call include the expectation that earnings asset growth in second-quarter 2007 will increase net interest income and reduce net interest margin; the expectation that losses in the home equity portfolio will be higher but manageable throughout 2007; the expectation that actions taken with respect to the bond portfolio late in second quarter 2007 will add to third-quarter 2007 earnings but reduce the leverage ratio; and the belief that recent regulatory guidelines issued for sub prime lending will not have a significant impact on Wells Fargo Financial's operation or on our credit losses or earnings.   

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future, they are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, please refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our second-quarter results, and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.   

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.   

HOWARD ATKINS, SENIOR EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, Bob.  Wells Fargo produced another very strong quarter despite the challenges the industry has been facing this year. Once again, earnings per share grew 10% to a record $0.67 per share from $0.61 per share in the second quarter of 2006. This is the 17th quarter out of the past 20 that we have grown earnings per share at a double-digit rate.   

Achieving double-digit growth in the current environment is difficult in any industry, not just banking, but the diversity of our revenue sources once again differentiated us from the rest of the industry. Results were driven by an ideal combination of double-digit revenue growth, positive operating leverage and relatively stable credit quality. Business performance was strong and well-balanced across our broadly diverse business segments with most of our 80 plus consumer and commercial businesses producing double-digit earnings or revenue growth, or both.   

Total revenue in the second quarter increased 13% from a year ago, the largest quarterly revenue increase in the last two years. Businesses that generated double-digit year-over-year revenue growth included asset management, business direct, capital markets, corporate trust, credit and debit cards, global remittance services, home equity, consumer finance, insurance, international, personal credit management, real estate brokerage and wealth management.   

Operating leverage, once again, was positive with expenses increasing 11%, 2 percentage points below our 13% revenue growth. Virtually all of the year-over-year expense growth was directly or indirectly related to stronger sales and revenue. During the past year we have opened 99 new regional banking stores and 20 new offices within and outside our traditional footprint to serve existing and new commercial relationships.   

In the process we've added over 4000 new team members, up 3% from a year ago, largely sales and service professionals. Sales commissions and related compensation increased in many of our fee-based businesses such as insurance, wealth management and real estate brokerage, all of which had particularly strong revenue growth year-over-year.   

Nonpersonnel expenses were relatively flat and declined in some categories, reflecting our ongoing discipline in containing expenses that don't directly add to revenue growth. Operating margins remain strong. We continue to have the highest net interest margin among our peers at 4.89%, up 13 basis points from a year ago.   

After having sold all of our lower yielding ARMs and securities over a year ago when long-term interest rates were substantially lower than today, we began to invest again in longer-term securities late in the second quarter of 2007 as long-term interest rates rose substantially, adding approximately $30 billion in securities at attractive yields, substantially higher than the yields at which we sold our lowest yielding ARMs and long-term securities between mid 2004 and mid 2006.   

About half of the recently added securities were in the mortgage company which periodically uses mortgage-backed securities to hedge the interest rate risk in the mortgage servicing portfolio. The additional assets are expected to increase net interest income growth, but the higher average earning asset growth is likely to reduce net interest margin in the third quarter.   

At 1.82% our return on assets after all expenses and credit costs remained one of the highest among large banks and improved 11 basis points from the second quarter of 2006 despite the increase in charge-offs from a year ago. At 19.6% our return on equity remained one of the highest in the industry reflecting our double-digit earnings growth and our focus on achieving high risk-adjusted returns in all of our business activities. Reflecting the breadth and balance of our business model, both our commercial and consumer businesses contributed to these consistently strong results. Let me give you some key details.   

First, our wholesale banking. Our wholesale and commercial banking group, which serves primarily middle market customers and select niches in the large corporate market, had another record quarter. Net income grew 13% from a year ago, driven by 20% revenue growth. Growth in commercial loans and business deposits was strong as was growth in fee-based businesses such as insurance, capital markets, real estate brokerage and asset management.   

Wholesale banking group's average loans grew by 16% year-over-year and 18% annualized linked quarter. Asset-based lending, real estate, international and specialized financial-services, which include our capital markets activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies, all experienced double-digit loan growth. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans, which included commercial loans in our wholesale segment as well as commercial loans in other segments such as small-business, increased 12% from the second quarter of 2006 and 15% annualized on a linked quarter basis.   

Commercial and commercial real estate loans have increased for 15 consecutive quarters and have grown at a double-digit rate for 11 consecutive quarters. Wholesale banking group's average core deposits were up $18 billion from the second quarter of 2006 which included certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds post conversion to deposits, wholesale's average core deposits were up 32%. This growth was the result of higher balance growth from existing customers and new relationships, primarily in corporate banking, and deposits from international customers doing business in the United States.   

Eastdil Secured, our real estate brokerage and investment banking company, had a record quarter with revenue and income more than doubling from the first quarter of 2007. During the quarter, Eastdil advised on over $65 billion of real estate debt and equity transactions and continued to earn fees as the advisor to  Blackstone Group in its $39 billion acquisition of  Equity Office Properties Trust.

The international group had double-digit revenue and earnings growth compared to the second quarter of 2006. Despite historically low volatility, the foreign exchange group arranged almost $13 billion in transactions per day in the second quarter, up 10%. We have one of the largest foreign exchange sales operations in the country with centers in San Francisco, New York, Minneapolis and 11 other markets, offering pricing to our commercial, wealth management and retail customers in over 100 currencies.   

The wholesale services group continued to be a leader in technology by becoming the first major U.S. financial-services company to offer mobile service for medium and large businesses, providing access to information about their accounts and transaction activities on mobile devices. By making it easier for our customers to do business with us we continue to earn more of their business. Through the first half of 2007, we have already received over 20% more checks through our Check21 solutions, including our award-winning Desktop Deposit service, than we did the entire year of 2006. And active Commercial Electronic Office portal users were up 29% from 2006, and customers now initiate and receive more payments electronically than through checks.   

The Asset Management Group, which is responsible for managing and administering a total of $606 billion in client assets, had record results with double-digit growth in revenue, earnings and assets under management. Assets under management were up 17% from second quarter of 2006.  Wells Fargo Advantage Funds, our mutual fund business, grew assets by 20% from a year ago and ended the quarter with $134 billion in fund balances. This growth was driven by strong fund performance and new balances. Over half of the Wells family of mutual funds were in the top two Lipper Performance quintiles. Total  Wells Fargo trust and investment management fees grew 24% from the second quarter of 2006.   

Let me now turn to community banking. Our Community Banking Group, comprised of regional banking, wealth management, mortgage banking and retail Internet, had another strong quarter with 11% revenue growth and net income up 14%. Regional banking had a great quarter with record cross sell and improving customer experience scores. The average retail bank household had 5.4 products with  Wells Fargo, a new record, up from five products a year ago and up from three products in 1998. 21% of our retail customers had over eight products with us, our long-term goal, up from 12% five years ago and in our top region 30% of our customers had over eight products with us.   

During the second quarter core product sales increased 9% from the prior year on a comparable basis to a total of $4.79 million sales. Platform banker FTEs increased 7% during the same time period. California continued to be one of our fastest growing states with a 14% increase in core product sales from the second quarter of 2006 on a comparable basis. Sales of  Wells Fargo Packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan, were up 21% from the second quarter of 2006 and purchased by 66% of new checking account customers.   

Our success in selling and increasing usage of our credit and debit cards among our customers increased card fees by almost $100 million or 24% from the second quarter of 2006. At quarter end 36% of our retail bank customer -- consumer households had a  Wells Fargo credit card, up from 34% a year ago and up from 24% five years ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 18% from a year ago and average balances were up 21%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 85% five years ago, and purchase volume increased by 13% from a year ago.   

Average core deposits of $301 billion included certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds from the date of their conversion to deposits, or only deposits that were new to  Wells Fargo, average core deposits grew 11% from a year ago and 14% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $5.8 billion from the second quarter of 2006 and up $2.8 billion from the first quarter of 2007. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 12% from the second quarter of 2006 and 11% annualized on a linked quarter basis.   

Average retail core deposits, which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 6% from a year ago and 8% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.9% from last year and small business checking accounts were up a net 4.4% from last year. California continued to be our fastest growing market with checking accounts up a net 6%. This is the eighth consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint.   

While we maintained one of the highest ratios of non-interest-bearing deposits to total deposits among large banks in the United States, growth in interest-bearing checking and savings accounts and consumer CDs continue to exceed the growth in non-interest-bearing accounts, a trend that is consistent with the national monetary aggregates.   

Small business continues to be one of our best opportunities for growth. Sales of store-based business solutions were up 17% from last year on a comparable basis and sales of  Wells Fargo Business Services Packages, which include a business checking account and at least three other business products such as a business debit card, business credit card, business savings account or business loan or line of credit, were up 41%. These strong sales results increased our cross sell to our business banking households to 3.4, up from 3.1 a year ago.   

Bank loans to small businesses, loans less than $100,000 on our business direct platform, grew 18% from the second quarter of 2006. We continue to focus on delivering a great experience for our customers and measuring our progress through 50,000 store-based customer surveys a month, over 1.8 million surveys to date. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time scores improved 22% and customer loyalty scores have improved 11% from the second quarter of 2006.   

Our Wealth Management Group once again had a strong quarter with 17% revenue growth and 23% earnings growth from a year ago. Revenue from brokerage increased 31% and earnings were up 91% from a year ago driven by an increase in productivity from our financial consultants. This productivity lift helped brokerage assets under administration reach record levels, up 19% from the second quarter of 2006. WellsTrade, our online brokerage service, introduced new pricing during the first quarter which offers 100 commission free online trades per year for  Wells Fargo PMA customers. Since the new pricing in February, new account openings have increased almost 100% over the same period last year.   

Wells Fargo continues to be a leader in online banking. At quarter end we had 9.3 million active online consumers, up 17% from a year ago. 63% of all  Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers. We had 5.3 million bill pay customers, up 32% from a year ago. We had 907,000 active online small-business customers, up 19% from a year ago. Internet sales continue to be an important channel for overall sales growth with consumer product sales up 36%, consumer checking accounts up 30%, consumer savings accounts up 40%, and consumer credit products up 16% from the second quarter of 2006.   

Mortgage applications in the second quarter were running at relatively high levels, up 6% from a year ago. Despite the increase in mortgage rates from last year, mortgage refi applications were up 24% from a year ago. At $68 billion purchase mortgage applications were close to the $71 billion in purchase applications taken during the home buying season last spring. Mortgage applications in the second quarter were about the same as the high volume of applications taken in the first quarter of 2007 and the application pipeline at the end of the second quarter of $56 billion was also roughly the same as the unclosed pipeline at the end of the first quarter.   

Mortgage originations were up 18% from the first quarter with most of the growth in the retail channel. The mortgage servicing portfolio continued to grow as it has for 46 consecutive quarters, despite ups and downs in interest rates and origination activity. Our owned servicing portfolio was $1.4 trillion at quarter end, up 30% from a year ago, about 11% due to the servicing portfolio acquired from  Washington Mutual last year. Gross servicing fees of $1 billion were up 23% from a year ago, but were down 4% on a linked quarter basis primarily because of the sale of $1.4 billion in excess servicing rights.   

Excess servicing essentially represents an interest only strip above the normal amount of the traditional servicing fee. The sale was undertaken at about breakeven to further reduce the interest rate risk in the servicing portfolio.   

Mortgage banking non-interest income was $689 million, down $101 million from first quarter. The impact of higher interest rates on the value of MSRs net of hedging costs was a $225 million net loss. The net gain on mortgage loan origination and sale activities was positively impacted by higher gain on sale margins during the quarter and also included a $135 million increase in the fair value of servicing associated with mortgage loans held for sale at quarter end.   

The anticipatory actions we took in February to further strengthen our residential real estate underwriting standards, and some pricing improvements on these loans in the second quarter, resulted in only a $35 million of revenue reduction on non-prime loans reflected in net gains on mortgage loan origination sales activities, compared to $90 million in revenue reduction taken in the first quarter. Total non-prime residential real estate secured originations were down $2.7 billion from the second quarter of 2006.   

Revenue at our consumer finance company,  Wells Fargo financial, increased 10% from a year ago driven by a 14% increase in loans. Growth in revenue and loans was somewhat more moderate than in prior periods as we began shifting several quarters ago toward the lower risk end of the spectrum on credit products we offer in our auto segment.   

Let me now shift to credit quality. Overall credit quality was in line with our expectations. Total credit losses were stable in the quarter at $720 million compared with $715 million in the first quarter and $726 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Loss rates declined slightly from 0.90% of average loans in the first quarter to 0.87% in the second quarter. Total nonperforming assets were also relatively flat at $2.71 billion or 0.79% of loans in the second quarter compared with $2.67 billion or 0.82% of loans in the first quarter.   

Our nonperforming loan portfolio continued to have relatively low loss potential based on the high percentage of consumer real estate and auto secured loans where we take an initial write down to estimated net realizable value as the loan is transferred to nonperforming status. Loans 90 days or more past due and still accruing, excluding insured and guaranteed Ginny Mae balances, declined by $43 million or 4% from first quarter and were down 6% from the peak in the fourth quarter of 2006.   

As I've done in prior quarters, I will provide additional credit metrics on our major loan portfolios, but first I want to highlight some areas where we have minimal exposure and have proactively taken steps to reduce our risk and enhance our credit performance. We do not retain any credit residuals on any of the prime or non-prime mortgage loans we sell or securitize. A small portion of mortgage loans sold is subject to early payment default risk. In the second quarter we added $35 million to our repurchase reserve for estimated early payment default on all previously sold mortgages.   

While we do not retain the credit risk on the majority of our $1.4 trillion residential mortgage servicing portfolio serving 10 million loans, we closely monitor the credit performance of the entire portfolio. Almost 90% of the mortgage loans we service are for prime customers. We value and price our prime and sub prime servicing based on expected repayment performance so that we are properly compensated for the added work related to potentially higher delinquency in the sub prime portfolios.   

We also price servicing based on the origination channel with better credit performance in our retail originations versus correspondent wholesale channels. While delinquencies and foreclosures are increasing, only 0.56% of our servicing portfolio -- in other words less than 1% is in foreclosure, which is below the industry average. We work closely with our servicing customers to try and keep them in their homes and work with national industry groups to promote and encourage customers to contact their lenders with possible problems.   

We have very little ARM reset risk across our loan and servicing portfolios. The bulk of the first mortgages we originate are sold to investors; the bulk of any mortgages we retain are either relationship ARMs where the customer typically has substantial deposit balances and/or multiple products with us, or in our consumer finance business debt consolidation mortgages where the borrower's debt service is not increased by the mortgage loan. In both cases our ARM reset risk and credit exposure generally is minimal and much less than the industry overall.   

Less than 15% of our total ARM loans held on our balance sheet are scheduled to reset in the next 18 months. We have never offered or retained negative am or option ARMs with lower initial teaser rates, which is where the greatest risk exists for other providers in the industry.   

In our home equity and home mortgage businesses, we have further tightened correspondent and broker underwriting requirements, primarily reducing stated income and reduced documentation programs. We also discontinued purchasing sub prime loans from correspondents at  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage during the quarter.   

We have negligible direct exposure to hedge funds. Lending directly to private equity sponsors is immaterial and not a strategic focus of our business. Borrowers owned by private equity firms are primarily financed through our asset-based or specialized lending units. These loans constitute less than 2% of our total loans. We have consciously avoided participating in high-profile or controversial financings of this type.   

Most of our non-prime loans are originated and held at Wells Fargo Financial. Financial has two principal consumer credit portfolios -- auto and real estate. We continue to see an improvement in the credit performance of our $28 billion auto portfolio with net charge-offs down $42 million from the first quarter and down $88 million from the third quarter 2006 peak. 90 days past due continued to improve and were down 25% from the first quarter and are down 37% from the fourth-quarter peak.   

While the actions we have taken to improve collections capacity and efficiency drove this improved performance, the auto industry typically experiences seasonal declines in credit performance in the second half of the year and we will carefully monitor our delinquency and loss performance and continue to adjust our auto loan origination and collection process as necessary.   

Over 70% of the auto portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The size of our auto portfolio was essentially unchanged from last quarter reflecting tightening of account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume in the higher risk tiers. Nearly 80% of new originations in the second quarter had FICO scores above 620.   

At quarter end Wells Fargo Financial had $22 billion in U.S.-based real estate secured debt consolidation loans. This portfolio has performed better than the rest of the industry's non-prime mortgage portfolios because of the nature of the product, the type of customers who buy this product as well as the long-standing discipline with which these loans have always been underwritten and managed at  Wells Fargo.

These loans are for debt consolidation purposes, not for the purchase of a home. This means our customers are not incurring significant new financial obligations and in fact their monthly payments are typically lower than they were prior to taking out the debt consolidation loan. 96% of this portfolio is in a first lien position.   

Wells Fargo Financial does not do any interest only, stated income, option ARMs or negative amortizing loans. All loans are originated by  Wells Fargo financial team members; we do not use any brokers or correspondents in this business. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer teaser rates and does not do any national advertising campaigns. New real estate customers primarily come from outbound calling to customers with an existing  Wells Fargo relationship and where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations.   

We conservatively underwrite these loans with full documentation and require income verification. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 642 and 65% of the portfolio had a FICO score above 620. The average loan to value was 76%; the average loan size was $124,000. Approximately 45% of the portfolio was fixed rate loans. The remaining loans are "3/27" adjustable-rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan. We underwrite these adjustable-rate loans to the fully indexed rate to ensure the customer's ability to afford their payments.   

In the second quarter, 60% of new originations were fixed rate loans. This prudent product strategy combined with cautious underwriting has resulted in stable and predictable credit performance. Our delinquency and foreclosure rates for this portfolio remained significantly better than published industry rates. Annualized net charge-offs at quarter end in this portfolio were below 20 basis points with second-quarter losses of only $10 million.   

We have been proactive in mitigating the credit risk in this portfolio by obtaining private mortgage insurance on a significant portion of our higher loan to value loans. The recent regulatory guidelines issued for sub-prime lending will not have a significant impact on Wells Fargo Financial's operations since many of those guidelines have always been part of our normal business practices. This portfolio is 6% of our total loan portfolio and will not materially impact our credit losses or earnings.   

The $61 billion of first mortgages that were on our balance sheet at June 30, 2007 consisted of -- $22 billion of debt consolidation loans at Wells Fargo Financial; $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position; and $27 billion of largely prime, relationship-based first mortgages held at  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, regional banking and our wealth management group. We do not offer or portfolio any negative amortizing or option ARMs. We obtain mortgage insurance on higher loan to value loans at Wells Fargo Financial and  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage and we continue to monitor regional economic and real estate trends and modify underwriting standards as needed.   

The credit performance of our real estate secured portfolio also benefits because  Wells Fargo continues to be among the most experienced, most customer focused and highest rated loan servicers for both prime and non-prime loans. High-quality servicing improves customer service and has been demonstrated to result in lower foreclosures and losses. Charge-offs in our $61 billion one to four family first mortgage portfolio improved slightly from the first quarter to 13 basis points, only $19 million in second-quarter net losses on the entire first mortgage portfolio.   

At quarter end 15% of our $81 billion National Home Equity Group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 58% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a  Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO score was 748. The average combined LTV was 60% based on outstanding balances and 72% including unused commitments. 59% of the portfolio was fixed rate and 74% of new production during the quarter was fixed rate. Home equity losses have increased in response to current soft real estate market conditions in some markets. While the frequency of losses was as expected, the severity has increased due to declining home values in some of the markets we serve.   

Over two years ago we tightened underwriting standards in about 20 standard metropolitan areas that we felt had the greatest risk of home price declines. While that has mitigated our exposure, we are seeing some deterioration in other markets, primarily in the Midwest and California's Central Valley. Weakness in the home equity portfolio is particularly apparent in the 2006 vintage sourced through third party channels where current combined loan to values have risen above 90% in part due to the decline in local home values.   

This particular segment represents only 3% of the total home equity portfolio. In response we have tightened underwriting standards and increased focus on collections for our third party loans. We have benefited from our geographically diverse portfolio and we believe our underwriting practices are sound and collection resources adequate and well-managed for the current environment.   

While charge-offs have increased from the historically low and unsustainable rates at year-end in this portfolio, nonperforming loans and 90 days past due remained flat in the second quarter. Given current trends in many residential housing markets, we expect higher but manageable losses throughout 2007 in the home equity portfolio.   

Two other retail portfolios that are important to our credit performance are credit card and business direct. The $10 billion community banking credit card portfolio was primarily issued to our banking customers within our banking states. Our $11 billion business direct portfolio consists of small loans and lines of credit originated to small-business owners nationwide. These businesses continue to execute underwriting, account management and collection practices that have produced healthy loan growth and predictable results, typically better than industry norms, over an extended period of time.   

Our commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continue to benefit from exceptional credit results, healthy loan growth and wide geographic diversity. We finance a modest level of residential one to four family construction and land development, less than 2% of total loans, with minimal exposure to stressed property types, such as condo conversions, and we have no exposure to large sub prime mortgage originators.   

Our risk profile in the wholesale businesses continue to benefit from low exposure to the airline and automobile industries. We have not significantly participated in the recently publicized large leveraged buyouts to private equity firms. And in the sub prime CDO market our lending exposure related to collateralized debt obligations is minimal.   

The $57 million increase in commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans reflected $26 million of normal level of activity for the wholesale businesses and $31 million from a portfolio purchased by our equipment finance business. We consider the $634 million of total commercial and commercial real estate non accrual loans at quarter end a reasonable and manageable level for a $132 billion loan portfolio.   

Let me now shift to capital. On June 30th shareholders equity was $47 billion, up $5 billion from $42 billion a year ago. Our leveraged Tier I capital and total capital ratios were 7.9%, 8.57%, and 11.72% respectively. We expect the bond portfolio actions we took late in the second quarter will add to third-quarter earnings and average assets, but will modestly reduce the leverage ratio. Our capital ratios remain very strong reflecting our ongoing focus on producing high risk-adjusted returns in all of our activities and in turn gives us capacity to continue to take advantage of attractive opportunities to produce strong returns for our shareholders.   

So far this year we have opportunistically stepped up our share repurchase activity. In the second quarter we repurchased 30 million shares of  Wells Fargo common stock. Year-to-date we have repurchased 77 million shares compared with 59 million shares repurchased in all of 2006. At June 30th approximately 60 million shares remained available for repurchase under Board authority. During the quarter we also issued $1 billion of attractively priced retail preferred securities, a low-cost way to add to permanent capital.   

Our M&A strategy remains focused on niche opportunities that add to value and we will not do any acquisitions unless they meet our long-standing financial criteria for accretion and returns. In the second quarter we acquired Placer Sierra Bancshares, a Northern California based bank holding company with $2.6 billion in assets and more than 650 team members serving consumer and small and medium-size businesses from 50 locations throughout California.   

We acquired CIT Construction adding capability to provide commercial financing to the infrastructure construction industry. And we also announced the acquisition of  Greater Bay Bancorp with $7.4 billion in assets, our third-largest bank acquisition in our company's history. Greater Bay will enable us to better serve our community banking, commercial insurance brokerage and specialty finance and trust customers.   

Our preferred use of capital is to invest in our businesses, particularly to build and strengthen our distribution. In the second quarter of 2007 we opened 21 regional banking centers. We continue to add to our ATM network adding 41 new Web enabled ATMs and converting 330 envelope-free ATMs during the quarter. We added almost 1000 platform banker FTEs from the second quarter of 2006.   

As I highlighted last quarter, the adoption of FIN 48 will cause more volatility in our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter. Our effective tax rate was 34% this quarter compared with 30% last quarter and 34% a year ago.   

In conclusion, we once again achieved double-digit earnings per share and double-digit revenue growth while achieving positive operating leverage. These outstanding results were driven by strong and well-balanced growth across our broadly diversified business segments. Our long-standing discipline managing risk was reflected in our relatively stable credit quality.   

Thank you for listening. And if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070724e37h000b5
  


 HD
 Q1  2007  Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final   
   WC
6,837 words
   PD
17 April 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.     

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, SVP, INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the  Wells Fargo first-quarter 2007 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our first-quarter results we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.   

In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including statements about credit quality and future credit losses; generally and specifically the statement that we expect higher but manageable losses in our home equity loan portfolio throughout 2007; the belief that foreclosed assets have minimal additional loss content and that the  Wells Fargo financial residential real estate loan portfolio will not materially impact our credit losses or earnings.   

   TD
Additional forward-looking statements include the expectation that the adoption of FIN 48 will cause more volatility in our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter and our estimate of the savings from the redemption of trust preferred securities in December 2006. Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future; they are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.   

For a discussion of some of the factors which may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents. Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.   

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, SENIOR EVP, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, Bob. In my comments today I will be discussing four aspects of our first-quarter results. First, as usual, I will go over the key drivers of our continued strong growth and operating margins for the Company and its main business lines. Second, I will review credit quality trends in our major credit portfolios with a particular focus on why our portfolios have continued to outperform the industry. I will then discuss the immediate impact and key implications of the new accounting pronouncements introduced in the first quarter and I will conclude with some comments on capital management.   

First, our first-quarter growth and operating margins.  Wells Fargo had another strong quarter with double-digit revenue, double-digit income and double-digit earnings per share growth. Earnings per share grew 10% from a year ago to $0.66 a share.  Wells Fargo has now grown earnings per share at a double-digit pace in 17 of the last 20 quarters and the average growth in the few quarters that didn't quite make double-digit was 7%.   

The strong first-quarter results in 2007 were notable for the balance across our diverse business segments, for continued improvement in all operating margins, and for a modest decline in credit losses from fourth-quarter levels. Total revenue in the first quarter increased 10% from a year ago. We had double-digit or near double-digit revenue growth in businesses as diverse as commercial banking, asset based lending, asset management, international, capital markets, real estate brokerage, business direct, wealth management, card services, home equity lending, personal credit management, corporate trust and home mortgage.   

We continued to have the widest net interest margin among large bank holding companies and, in fact, our net interest margin rose once again to 4.95% in the first quarter, up 2 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2006 and up 10 basis points from last year. The net interest margin continued to be positively impacted by double-digit growth in core deposits and was also positively impacted by the sale of adjustable-rate mortgages, which we completed last year, and sales of our lowest yielding investment securities in the fourth quarter of 2006 and first quarter of 2007.   

Operating leverage once again was positive with revenue growth of 10.4% versus expense growth of 8.9%, a 1.5% spread. At 1.89% our return on assets after all expenses and credit costs remained one of the highest among large banks and improved 17 basis points from the first quarter of 2006 despite the increase in charge-offs from a year ago, and ROA improved 10 basis points from the fourth quarter of 2006.   

At 19.65% our return on equity remained one of the highest in the industry. Reflecting the breadth and balance of our business model, both our commercial and consumer businesses contributed to these consistently strong results. And let me give you some key details.   

Our wholesale and commercial banking group, which serves primarily middle market customers and selected niches in the large corporate market, had another strong record quarter. Net income grew 13% from a year ago driven by 15% revenue growth. Since the start of the U.S. economic expansion in early 2002 our wholesale banking group's revenue has grown at a 10% compound annual growth rate and its net income has grown at a 13% compound annual growth rate.   

Wholesale Banking accounted for 27% of  Wells Fargo's consolidated first-quarter earnings. Growth in revenue and earnings in Wholesale Banking was balanced between strong loan deposits and fee income growth driven by continued strong cross sell success. Total cross sell in this business was 6, up from 5.7 a year ago.   

Let me highlight the growth drivers in the commercial and wholesale segment. Wholesale Banking group's loans grew by 15% year-over-year and 16% annualized linked quarter. Asset based lending, middle market, real estate and specialized financial services, which include our capital markets activities and relationships with selected Fortune 500 companies, all experienced double-digit loan growth once again.   

C&I loans, which include commercial loans in our wholesale segment as well as commercial loans in other segments such as small business, have increased in the last 13 consecutive quarters and have grown at a double-digit rate in the last 10 consecutive quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $12 billion or 11% from the first quarter of 2006 and $3 billion or 12% annualized on a linked quarter basis. At quarter end C&I loans accounted for 38% of total  Wells Fargo loans versus 37% a year ago.   

Eastdil Secured, our real estate investment banking company, advised on $52 billion of real estate debt and equity transactions in the first quarter, including acting as a real estate advisor to the Blackstone group in its $39 billion acquisition of equity office properties trust which was the second-largest leveraged buyout ever completed.   

In our treasury management business during the first quarter $38 billion in checks were processed electronically through our Internet based remote desktop deposit service. In the first quarter the total number of checks processed through desktop deposit was half the number of checks processed for the entire year of 2006. The success of desktop deposit is one reason we were able to reach a new milestone.   

In February electronic collection transactions surpassed paper collection transactions for the first time. In March Computerworld magazine recognized  Wells Fargo's desktop deposit service as best in class. Also in March  Wells Fargo became the first bank to offer back office paper to electronic check conversion through multiple channels.   

Wells Fargo Asset Management Group had another strong quarter with 11% growth in assets under management. We now have the third-largest bank owned mutual fund family. This growth is the result of strong fund performance with over 85% of the 59 Wells Capital investment style composites outperforming their relative benchmarks.   

Half of the Wells family of mutual funds were in the top two Lipper Performance quintiles. Trust and investment fees for the Company grew 10% from the first quarter of 2006. Our Community Banking group, comprised of regional banking, wealth management, mortgage banking and retail Internet, had another strong quarter with 12% revenue growth and net income up 27%. Each of these businesses contributed to the Community Banking results.   

Regional banking, our retail store network, continues to meet our customers' financial needs with solutions based sales and improving service. Strong first-quarter results reflected core product sales of $4.96 million, a 13% increase from the prior year on a comparable basis. Cross sell continued to improve with a record high of 5.3 products for retail bank household, up from 4.9 products a year ago and approximately 3 products in 1998.   

We continue to be successful in selling  Wells Fargo packages which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan. Package sales were up 29% from the first quarter of 2006, now purchased by 65% of new checking account customers. 21% of our customers have over eight products with us, up from 17% a year ago, and up approximately 12% five years ago in our top region. 30% of our customers have over eight products, up from 27% a year ago. Households in our outstanding profit tier, that's our highest profitability tier, are up 9% from a year ago.   

We continue to have good growth in our card business with increased penetration and usage of debit and credit cards. At quarter end 36% of our retail bank consumer households had a  Wells Fargo credit card, up from 33% a year ago and up from 23% five years ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 19% from a year ago and average balances were up 20%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers have a debit card, up from 83% five years ago, and purchase volume increased by 13% from a year ago.   

Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households contributed to total card fees which increased by 22% from the first quarter of 2006. Average consumer loans decreased $2.8 billion from the first quarter of 2006, but excluding real estate 1 to 4 family first mortgages, the loan category impacted by ARMs sold as part of the balance sheet repositioning strategy completed in the second quarter of 2006, average consumer loans were up 14% year-over-year. On an annualized linked quarter basis average consumer loans increased 12% including real estate 1 to 4 family junior loans up 5%; credit card balances up 24%; and other revolving credit and installment loans up 3%.   

Core deposits of $290.6 billion, 91% of loans outstanding, now include certain funds that were previously swept into non-deposit products. Including only the growth in these funds from the date of their conversion to deposits, or only deposits that were new to  Wells Fargo, average core deposits grew 10% from a year ago and 9% annualized growth on a linked quarter basis.   

Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $5.1 billion from the first quarter of 2006 and up $385 million from the fourth quarter of 2006. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 8% from the first quarter of 2006 and 9% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average retail core deposits, which exclude Wholesale Banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 5% from a year ago and 7% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 5.2% from last year and small-business checking accounts were up a net 4.5% from last year.   

We continue to see very strong growth in consumer checking accounts in our largest market, California, which were up a net 6.5%, the highest gain in net accounts in five years. This is the seventh consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint. While California is one of the more competitive deposit markets in our footprint, we have been able to grow accounts without increasing our deposit prices in the state.   

Our customers continue to move deposits from lower interest accounts to higher interest-bearing checking accounts and consumer CDs, which are still less expensive and more stable than purchased money. While pricing pressure has increase in some of our markets, we have been able to attract new customers as well as retain existing customer deposit accounts without having to aggressively increase our pricing.   

Small business continued to be an important driver of growth. Sales of store based business solutions in the first quarter were up 19% from last year on a comparable basis. Net business checking accounts were up 4.5% from the first quarter of 2006. These strong sales results increased our cross sell through our business banking households to 3.4 up from 3.0 a year ago. Bank loans to small businesses, loans less than $100,000, on our business direct platform, grew 19% from the first quarter 2006.   

Our strong sales results in regional banking are a reflection of the improvements we have made in customer service. Between January 2004 and March 2007 we conducted more than 1.6 million store based consumer surveys and we continue to perform 50,000 surveys per month. For customers transacting at the teller line welcoming and wait time scores were up 20% and customer loyalty scores have improved 12% from the first quarter of 2006.   

Our wealth management group, formerly Private Client Services, had a very strong first quarter with revenue up 12% and earnings up 29% from a year ago. Revenue from brokerage increased 25% and earnings were up 79% from a year ago driven by an increase in productivity from our financial consultants. This productivity lift helped brokerage assets under management reach record levels, up 17% from the first quarter of 2006.   

Wells Trade, our online brokerage service, introduced new pricing during the quarter which offers 100 commission free online trades per year. The pricing, which leverages the unique capabilities of our diversified business model, is available to  Wells Fargo PMA customers with balances of $25,000 or more in any combination of loans, credit balances, brokerage accounts, savings and checking accounts, IRAs or 10% of outstanding mortgage loans. In the six weeks following the announcement of the new pricing Wells Trade account openings were 134% higher than the comparable period last year.   

The Internet continues to be an important channel for consumer sales, service and retention. At quarter end we had 9 million active online customers, up 18% from a year ago. 63% of all  Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers, almost double the rate four years ago. We had 5.1 million bill pay customers, up 38% from a year ago, and we had 880,000 active online small-business customers, up 24% from a year ago. The growth in Internet sales continues to accelerate with consumer product sales up 39%, checking account sales up 26%, savings account sales up 42% and credit card sales up 21% from the first quarter of 2006.   

In our mortgage banking operation business growth actually remained relatively strong despite the slowdown in the overall housing market. At $68 billion mortgage originations were down slightly, $2 billion from the fourth quarter, but up slightly, $2 billion, from a year ago. In fact, new mortgage applications taken during the first quarter were relatively strong, $113 billion, up from $90 billion in the fourth quarter and up nearly 20% from the $95 billion in applications in the first quarter of last year.   

One reason application volumes remained relatively strong is that refinancing activity picked up during the first quarter from 39% a year ago to 46% this quarter, which may be one of the benefits of a flat yield curve at historically low mortgage rates. In addition, purchased mortgage applications remained at a relatively high level despite the softening in the overall housing market.   

Given the deterioration in the nonprime mortgage market, we took a number of actions which reduced revenue by $90 million including reducing the value of all nonprime loans in our mortgage warehouse and adding to the provision for early payment defaults in all previously sold mortgages. During the quarter we also took anticipatory actions to further strengthen underwriting guidelines, pricing and terms in our mortgage business. Nonprime loans underwritten to the new credit guidelines represent the majority of the nonprime loan warehouse and the vast majority of the nonprime loan pipeline.   

While this is likely to reduce the proportion of high risk business in new originations, overall the unclosed applications pipeline of $57 billion at March 31st is up $9 billion or 19% from the start of the quarter. The mortgage servicing portfolio continued to grow as it has for 45 consecutive quarters despite ups and downs in interest rates and origination activity. Gross servicing fees of $1 billion were up 41% from a year ago, about 11% of which is due to the servicing portfolio acquired from  Washington Mutual last year. Our own servicing portfolio was $1.4 trillion at quarter end, up 34% from a year ago, about 9% of which was the acquired servicing portfolio.   

During the first quarter the impact of interest rates and interest rate spreads on mortgage servicing valuations net of hedging results reduced net servicing income by $34 million. Earnings at our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, declined from a year ago since last year's first quarter included the $127 million gain realized on the sale of our consumer lending business in Puerto Rico.   

Credit losses in consumer finance were up $150 million from a year ago in part because early last year bankruptcies were running below normal after the surge in bankruptcies before the bankruptcy law changed in the fourth quarter of 2005. As expected, auto loan losses remained at elevated levels although we are seeing great progress in lower delinquencies and past dues in this portfolio and losses in the first quarter in this portfolio declined from the fourth quarter.   

Let me now shift to credit quality. In total credit results in the first quarter were in line with expectations. Net credit losses were $715 million in the first quarter, up from $433 million in the first quarter of 2006 although down $11 million on a linked quarter basis. Most of the year-over-year increase in credit losses is from growth and normal seasoning within original pricing expectations, although three other factors have contributed to the higher losses.   

First, in the year ago quarter we were still experiencing higher recoveries and in that quarter personal bankruptcies dropped to lower than average levels following the fourth quarter 2005 bankruptcy spike. Second, while trending down from the fourth-quarter 2006 peak auto losses were still at elevated levels in the first quarter of 2007, although good progress has been made in getting this issue behind us. And third, we have seen some deterioration in part of the home equity portfolio.   

In total nonperforming assets increased $250 million on a linked quarter basis, consisting of an increase in foreclosed assets of $164 million and an increase in non-accrual loans of $86 million. Foreclosed assets were carried at net realizable value and we believe have minimal additional loss content. $59 million of the $164 million increase in foreclosed assets were Jennie Mae loans which are fully collectible because they are insured by FHA or guaranteed by the VA.   

Since  Wells Fargo underwrites a wide variety of loan types with different characteristics I will now provide the detail on credit quality for each of our major lending businesses. Let me start with Wells Fargo Financial which is where the vast bulk of nonprime loans are originated and held. Financial has two principal consumer credit portfolios, auto and real estate. We are making good progress in managing down actual and potential losses in the auto portfolio.   

Losses from the $28 billion auto portfolio declined in the first quarter from the elevated levels we experienced in the third and fourth quarters of last year. Actions taken in recent months to improve collections capacity and efficiency along with seasonality resulted in lower dollar losses and improved loss rates. Our auto portfolio continued to have good underlying credit characteristics. The average FICO score on the auto portfolio was 676, over 70% of the auto portfolio has a FICO score above 620.   

The size of our auto portfolio was essentially unchanged from last quarter reflecting tightening of account acquisition strategies to reduce loan volume in the higher brisk tiers. As a result, nearly 80% of new originations in the first quarter had a FICO above 620. These changes have further improved credit quality and reduced delinquency levels which also positively impact our collections capacity. In fact, the amount of 30 days or greater auto delinquencies has declined about 25% from peak December 2006 levels, $105 million of the Company's $164 million increase in foreclosed assets during the first quarter included residential real estate loans and repossessed autos and have been written down to net realizable value.   

As anticipated the inventory of repossessed autos was temporarily higher than normal as we improved our collections process. But starting in the month of March auction sales at favorable prices begin to reduce that inventory which will carry over to the second quarter. Approximately 50% of inventory at the beginning of the month was auctioned in late March at favorable average prices.   

At quarter end Wells Fargo Financial had $24 billion in real estate secured loans, 90% of this portfolio was U.S.-based and closed end loans. This portfolio performs better than the rest of the industry's nonprime mortgage portfolio because of the nature of the product, the type of customers who buy this product as well as the long-standing discipline with which these loans have always been underwritten and managed at Wells Fargo Financial.   

These loans are for debt consolidation purposes, not for the purchase of a home. This means our customers are not incurring significant new financial obligations. 96% of this portfolio is in a first lean position. Wells Fargo Financial does not do any interest only, option ARMs or negative amortizing loans. All loans are originated by Wells Fargo Financial team members; we do not use any brokers or correspondence in this business.   

Wells Fargo Financial does not offer teaser rates and does not do any national advertising campaigns. New customers primarily come from out bound calling where we can clearly demonstrate a tangible benefit for our customers by improving their financial situations. We conservatively underwrite these loans with full documentation and require income verification. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 640 and 64% of the portfolio had a FICO above 620. The average LTV was 75% and the average loan size was $122,000. Approximately 40% of the portfolio was fixed-rate loans, the remaining loans are 327 adjustable-rate mortgages with a fixed payment for the first three years of the loan.   

We underwrite these adjustable-rate loans to the fully indexed rate to ensure the customer's ability to afford their payments. In the first quarter of 2007 50% of new originations were fixed-rate loans. This prudent product strategy combined with cautious underwriting has resulted in stable and predictable credit performance. Our delinquency and foreclosure rates for this portfolio remained significantly better than published industry rates.   

In fact, 30 days past due, 90 days past due and net charge-offs have improved from year-end 2006. Annualized net charge-offs at quarter end in this portfolio were below 25 basis points with first-quarter losses of only $15 million on the entire real estate secured portfolio at Wells Fargo Financial.   

We have been proactive in mitigating the credit risk in this portfolio by obtaining private mortgage insurance on our loans with LTV's above 80%, booked prior to September 2006 and any LTVs above 90% booked after September 2006. The Wells Fargo Financial residential real estate portfolio represents less than 10% of our total loan portfolio and will not materially impact our credit losses or earnings. In fact, we view the nonprime market disruption as an opportunity for responsible lenders to expand their business and help more customers.   

With respect to our overall mortgage business, the vast bulk of all residential mortgage loans originated by  Wells Fargo are originated for sale rather than held in portfolio. As an example, over 80% of mortgage loans originated throughout the Company in 2006 were originated for sale. Accordingly other parties, not  Wells Fargo, take the credit and interest rate risk while we retain the servicing for a fee. In fact, the ARMs that we decided to portfolio in 2001 through 2004 were all sold between mid 2004 and mid 2006.   

As a result mortgage loans held for sale or for portfolio have declined from 36% of the average earning assets at the mid 2004 mortgage refi peak to 21% of average earning assets at the end of the first quarter of 2007. This significant reduction in mortgage exposure undertaken as part of our disciplined asset liability strategy and completed early last year is also the principal reason the yield on our mortgage loans and total loan portfolio have risen more than most of our competitors loan yields since the Fed began raising rates three years ago.   

We have not retained any credit residuals on any of the prime or nonprime mortgage loans we sell or securitize. A small portion of mortgage loans sold are subject to early payment default risk. In the first quarter we provided $46 million for estimated early payment default on all previously sold mortgages. Nonprime mortgages held for sale are a relatively small portion of the mortgage warehouse. Recognizing the deterioration in the nonprime market during the first quarter versus fourth quarter, we took additional write-downs on these loans of $38 million in the first quarter.   

Despite the problems some mortgage lenders have been reporting, we were able to sell and securitize prime and nonprime loans throughout the quarter. We had retained interests at year-end of only $367 million for I/O risk in our prime securitizations. $34 million of the linked quarter increase in nonaccruals was in residential real estate mortgages which we view as normal seasoning and lower than the increase experienced in the past several quarters.   

The $56 billion of first mortgages that were actually on our balance sheet at March 31, 2007 consisted of the previously described $22 billion of debt consolidation loans at Wells Fargo Financial, $12 billion of home equity loans in the first mortgage position, and $22 billion of largely prime relationship based first mortgages held at  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, regional banking and our wealth management group.   

We do not offer or portfolio any negative amortizing or option ARMs, we obtain mortgage insurance on higher LTV loans at both Wells Fargo Financial and  Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, and we continue to monitor regional economic and real estate trends and modify underwriting standards as needed. The credit performance of our real estate secured portfolio also benefits because  Wells Fargo continues to be among the most experienced, most customer focused and highest-rated loan servicers for our prime and nonprime loans.   

High-quality servicing improves customer service and has been demonstrated to results in lower foreclosures and losses. Charge-offs in the entire $56 billion 1 to 4 family first mortgage portfolio have remained stable at 13 basis points, only $18 million in the first-quarter losses on the entire first mortgage portfolio and 90 days past due and still accruing or essentially flat from the fourth quarter of 2006.   

At quarter end 16% of our $79 billion national home equity group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 54% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a  Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO on this portfolio was 746, the average combined LTV was 58% based on outstanding balances and 69% including unused commitments. 57% of the portfolio was fixed-rate and 87% of new production during the quarter was fixed-rate.   

Home equity losses have increased in response to the current soft real estate market conditions. While the frequency of losses was as expected, the severity has increased due to declining home values in some markets across the United States. Over two years ago we tightened standards in about 20 SMAs that we felt had the greatest risk of home price declines. While that has mitigated our exposure we are seeing some deterioration in other markets primarily in the Midwest and California's Central Valley.   

Weakness in the home equity portfolio appears to be concentrated in the 2006 vintage, sourced through third party channels, where current combined LTVs have risen above 90% in part due to the decline in local home values. This segment represents about 3% of the total home equity portfolio. In response we have tightened underwriting standards and increased focus on collections for our third party loans. We have benefited from our geographically diverse portfolio and we believe our underwriting practices are sound and collection resources adequate and well-managed for the current environment.   

While charge-offs have increased from the historically low and unsustainable rates at year-end in this portfolio, nonperforming loans and 90 days past due remained flat in the first quarter. We expect higher but manageable losses in the home equity portfolio during 2007.   

Two other retail portfolios that are important to our credit performance are credit card and business direct. The $9 billion Community Banking credit card portfolio was primarily sold through our banking customers within our banking states. The average FICO on that portfolio was 738. Our remaining card portfolio of $5.5 billion was originated through Wells Fargo Financial with an average FICO of 675.   

Our $10 billion business direct portfolio consists of small loans and lines of credit originated to small-business owners nationwide. The average balance per account was $13,000 and the average FICO was 720. Following the impact of bankruptcy legislation in 2005 these portfolios are gradually returning to more normal loss rates in the 3 to 4% range which is within our expectations.   

These businesses continue to execute underwriting, account management and collection practices that have produced predictable results over an extended period of time. Our commercial and commercial real estate portfolios continue to benefit from exceptional credit results, healthy loan growth and wide geographic diversity. We finance a modest level of residential 1 to 4 family construction and land development, less than 3% of total loans, with minimal exposure to stressed property types such as condo conversions.   

Our exposure to residential mortgage warehouse lending was immaterial and we had no exposure to large sub prime mortgage originators. Our risk profile in the wholesale businesses continued to benefit from low exposure to the airline and automobile industries and we have not significantly participated in the recently publicized large leveraged buyouts. The $34 million increase in commercial and commercial real estate non accrual loans reflected a normal level of activity for the wholesale businesses.   

The $577 million of total commercial and commercial real estate nonaccrual loans at year-end was $106 million higher than the historical lows experienced one years ago. We consider this a reasonable and manageable level for a $125 billion loan portfolio. Only $12 million of the year-over-year increase related to commercial real estate and had minimal land real estate construction or condo conversion exposure.   

Let me now shift to accounting. Several important accounting changes took affect this quarter. We early adopted both FAS 157 and FAS 159, covering fair value accounting, with the primary purpose of obtaining fair value accounting for certain residential mortgages held for sale. We elected to adopt fair value accounting for these loans in order to eliminate certain timing differences in the accounting for mortgages held for sale and the related hedge activity. Under these new standards we are required to record the loans at fair value until they are sold.   

While this will not have an impact on our hedging process, it will allow for better alignment between accounting results and economic hedging activity. Any changes in fair value of the loans from the time of funding to the time of sale will now largely be offset by corresponding changes in the fair value of the derivatives we use to hedge the loan, which better reflects the economics of our activities while eliminating the accounting, timing difference and mismatches that existed under the old accounting model.   

The adoption of FAS 157 and FAS 159 provides the same transparency we achieved last year when we adopted FAS 156, which permitted us to record changes in the fair value of our residential mortgage servicing rights and the fair value of the related hedges and in the same quarter. We did not elect to apply the fair value option to any of our securities available for sale which would have resulted in a transfer of those securities through the trading account and the recording of any gains or losses directly to retained earnings. Some banks have elected to transfer underwater securities to their trading account in order to avoid recognizing losses on their income statements.   

At quarter end we had $174 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio and an additional $774 million in net unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale reflecting one of the best yielding fixed income portfolios among U.S. banks due to our long-standing and continued focus on maximizing the long-term yield on this portfolio. In fact, within the fixed income portfolio we did not have any individual securities with unrealized losses at quarter end.   

Our effective tax rate for the quarter of approximately 30% was impacted by the adoption of FIN 48, accounting for income tax uncertainties. We expect that this accounting change will cause more volatility in our effective tax rate from quarter to quarter as we are now required to recognize tax positions in our financial statements based on the probability that such positions will effectively be sustained by taxing authorities and to reassess those positions each quarter based on our evaluation of new information.   

As of January 1, 2007, the date of our adoption of FIN 48, we had unrecognized tax benefits of $3.1 billion of which $1.4 billion related to benefits that would not impact the annual effective tax rate. During the first quarter discrete new information emerged impacting our previously uncertain tax positions which favorably lowered our tax rate. The impact for the rate in the first quarter amounted to $119 million net reduction in income tax expense primarily due to the resolution of certain outstanding federal income tax matters for periods prior to 2002.   

The final accounting change in the quarter was our implementation of FSP 13-2 which provides new guidance for the accounting for leveraged lease transactions for which there have been cash flow estimate changes based on when income tax benefits are recognized. We adopted FSP 13-2 on January 1, 2007 as required with no impact on the income statement since we recorded a cumulative affect adjustment which reduced our beginning balance of retained earnings by $71 million. This amount will be recognized back into income over the remaining terms of the affected leases.   

Let me conclude with capital management. On March 31st shareholder's equity was $46 billion, up $4 billion from $42 billion a year ago. Our leveraged Tier 1 capital and total capital ratios were 7.83%, 8.71% and 12.11% respectively. One of the reasons our capital ratios are so much higher today than a year ago or two years ago is that our earnings have grown at a faster rate than our earning assets. While loan growth during this period has been very robust, we sold all of our lowest yielding ARMs and longer-term investment securities before and during the early stages of the Fed tightening that began in mid 2004.   

Generally during the last two years we have not wanted to purchase long-term assets because with long-term rates still historically low and the yield curve so flat we've perceived the risk to purchasing long-term assets to be greater than the risk of not doing so. Should long-term yields go up enough or the yield curve provide a better spread we could decide to relever the balance sheet somewhat by adding better yielding assets at that time to the portfolio.   

Fundamentally our capital management objective is to opportunistically deploy and raise capital for high risk-adjusted returns for our shareholders over time. Capital growth is a byproduct of being disciplined in the way capital is deployed and is the means of taking advantage of new opportunities for additional value creation; it is not an end objective in and of itself.   

One of the major opportunities this year has been to repurchase Wells Fargo Company shares. In the first quarter we repurchased 47 million shares, up significantly from the 11 million shares purchased in the fourth quarter. At March 31st approximately 90 million shares remained available for repurchased under Board authority, including the additional 75 million shares the Board authorized on March 21, 2007.   

Late in December 2006 we called $791 million of previously issued trust preferred capital which we estimate will save $320 million over time versus the original cost of those securities. We also issued $750 million in new hybrid capital late in the fourth quarter of 2006. Because demand for these securities was strong it priced at the lowest subordination premium to date for this type of security.   

Our mergers and acquisition strategy remains focused on niche opportunities that add to value and we will not do any acquisitions unless they meet our long-standing and unchanged financial criteria for accretion and returns. Our preferred use of capital is to invest in our businesses, particularly to build and strengthen our distribution. In the first quarter of 2007 we opened 18 regional banking stores, we continue to add to our ATM network adding 57 new Web enabled ATMs and 151 envelope free ATMs during the quarter. We added 1,468 platform banker FTEs from the first quarter of 2006.   

Our conservative financial management and focus on risk-adjusted returns has enabled us to grow at a faster rate than many peers while generating one of the highest returns on equity, almost 20%, at one of the lowest cost of capital in financial services and we will continue to manage with the same discipline. During the first quarter  Standard & Poor's upgraded  Wells Fargo Bank NA to AAA, making us the only Bank in the United States, and one of only two worldwide, to have the highest credit rating from both Moody's and S&P.   

In conclusion, we started 2007 with strong results across our businesses including good loan, deposit, revenue growth driving double-digit earnings per share growth. Credit quality was in line with our expectations with higher losses in our home equity portfolio, but good progress in our auto portfolio, and our risk-adjusted returns remain among the highest in the industry. Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.   

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.   

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.   

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]   

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070424e34h000e0
  


 HD
 Q4  2006 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
5,371 words
   PD
16 January 2007
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, IR, WELLS FARGO: Hello. This is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter 2006 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our fourth-quarter and full-year results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.  

In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including statements about future credit losses and credit quality generally and specifically the expectation that certain actions taken in fourth quarter 2006 will stabilize losses in the auto loan portfolio in early 2007 and will lead to improved loss rates in that portfolio, the belief that certain foreclosed assets have minimal additional loss content and the expectation that losses in the wholesale loan portfolio will increase modestly in 2007.  

   TD
Additional forward-looking statements include the statement that future net interest income will be increased by approximately $320 million over the next 20 years as a result of the redemption of trust preferred securities. The belief that opportunity remains for further increasing our cross-sell ratio to our stretch goal of eight and the statement that we expect to open 100 new banking stores in 2007.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the SEC 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our fourth-quarter and 2006 full-year results and to our most recent annual and quarterly report filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents. Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, Bob. Wells Fargo had an exceptional year in 2006, once again growing earnings per share at a double-digit rate and revenue at nearly a double-digit rate while improving our operating margins and further strengthening our balance sheet.  

During the fourth quarter, we once again achieved our long-term financial goal of double-digit revenue and earnings per share growth. Earnings per share grew 12% from a year ago to $0.64 and net income was up a very strong 13% from a year ago to $2.2 billion. The strong performance in the fourth quarter was driven by solid loan growth, good deposit growth, double-digit growth in fee income and another increase in our industry-leading net interest margin.  

Total revenue in the fourth quarter increased 11% from a year ago. Combined revenue of businesses other than home mortgage was up an even stronger 14%. We had double-digit revenue growth in businesses as diverse as Commercial Banking, Business Direct, debit cards, global remittance, home equity, corporate trust, asset-based lending, real estate brokerage, insurance, international, specialized financial services, and consumer finance.  

Earnings and revenue were broad-based. Both consumer and commercial earnings and revenue growth were strong. Both spread income and fee-based income were strong. We continued to have the widest net interest margin among large bank holding companies and in fact our net interest margin rose once again to 4.93% in the fourth quarter, up 14 basis points from the third quarter of 2006 and up nine basis points from last year.  

The increase in the margin was driven by several factors. First, during the third quarter, we sold our lowest yielding securities that had been hedging a part of our mortgage servicing rights and did not replace those securities at the lower long-term rates prevailing in the fourth quarter.  

Second, we had solid growth in high-quality, higher-yielding commercial and consumer loans in the fourth quarter relative to securities and mortgages held for sale. So average yields on earning assets rose as we experienced this better mix of earning assets.  

And third, we continued to experience good deposit growth while maintaining disciplined deposit pricing. Also, late in the fourth quarter, we culled $791 million in trust preferred capital securities that were issued in 1996 with an average coupon of about 8%. While we incurred a $31 million cull premium expense during the fourth quarter, the redemption of these securities will add approximately $320 million to net interest income over the next 20 years relative to the cost of replacing this debt.  

At 1.79%, our return on assets after all expenses and credit costs remained one of the highest in banking and improved three basis points from the third quarter despite a higher provision for credit losses in the fourth quarter of 2006. At 19%, our return on equity remained one of the highest in the industry.  

These strong operating and financial results were due to strength across our commercial and consumer businesses. Let me give you some details on how our businesses performed. Our wholesale commercial banking group, which serves middle-market and large corporate customers, once again had extremely strong results during the quarter.  

Net income increased 14% from a year ago, driven by 22% revenue growth. Wholesale banking accounted for 23% of Wells Fargo's consolidated earnings for the quarter and 25% of the consolidated earnings for all of 2006. 2006 was the eighth consecutive year of record net income for wholesale banking. Revenue and earnings growth in wholesale were driven by strong loan growth and cross-sell success. Loans to middle-market and large corporate customers within the wholesale banking group grew 16% year-over-year and 15% annualized linked quarter.  

Asset-based lending, trade finance, real estate and specialized financial services, which includes our capital markets' activities and relationships with Fortune 500 companies, all experienced double-digit loan growth.  

C&I loans, which includes commercial loans in our wholesale segment, as well as commercial loans in other segments, such as small business, have now grown in the last 13 consecutive quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $11 billion or 11% from the fourth quarter of 2005 and $3 billion or 10% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. At quarter-end, C&I loans accounted for 38% of total Wells Fargo loans.  

Net credit losses in wholesale banking increased slightly from essentially zero through most of 2006. We would expect losses to modestly increase in the wholesale portfolios in 2007 as these portfolios age and as recoveries of write-downs on older loans in the portfolio diminish.  

Total commercial and real estate secured losses increased this quarter, but only minimally. The largest loss related to a $7 million agricultural loan. The other losses were small, not concentrated by geography or industry, and very typical of normal business activity.  

Wholesale banking customers had a record cross-sell of six products and our middle-market commercial customers had average cross-sell of over seven products. Our number one marketshare position in the western United States and our success at cross-sell is driving strong growth in fee income, which makes us somewhat less dependent on loan growth to maintain earnings growth.  

Fee income, which includes fees from asset management, capital markets, equity investments, insurance, real estate brokerage and treasury management, contributed 58% of total wholesale banking revenues in the fourth quarter.  

Let me highlight the growth drivers in a few of our wholesale businesses. Our insurance business had strong results across its three main business units. Accordia, our insurance brokerage company serving primarily middle-market business customers, reported record revenue by growing internally and successfully completing three acquisitions. Productline revenue, a measure of sales, reached a record $621 million in 2006.  

Rural Community Insurance, the largest writer of crop insurance in the nation, had its most successful reinsurance year ever, recording an underwriting gain of 31% of retained premiums. Wells Fargo Insurance, serving individual and small business customers, increased partner referrals from Wells Fargo's retail bankers this year by over 100%.  

This year, Wells Fargo asset management group became the 23rd largest U.S. money manager, up two notches from 2005 and all organic growth. Over 80% of the 53 Wells capital investment style composites outperformed their relative benchmarks. Half of the Wells Fargo family of mutual funds are now in the top two Lipper performance quintiles.  

Our international business also had double-digit revenue growth for the year. The business attracts deposits from a variety of relationships and very attractive rates due to our cross-sell success and our AAA rating. The foreign exchange business continued to grow with 14 foreign exchange desks nationwide and in fact, Wells Fargo now trades one of the largest volumes of foreign exchange sales with customers of any bank in North America.  

We increased our international teller sites by 17% during the year. We now have over 350 locations. In 2006, we became the first major U.S. bank to enable customers to wire money account to account between the United States and China and Vietnam. Our remittance business is now in seven countries and growing.  

In our asset-based lending business, we completed the acquisition of Evergreen Funding, a Dallas-based receivables factoring firm, and Commerce Funding, a Virginia-based receivables factoring firm. Also, we continue to add commercial banking offices both inside and outside of our original banking footprint.  

Earlier in the year, we opened offices in New Jersey and Buffalo, New York. These new locations are already generating cross-sell of close to six products per relationship. In the fourth quarter, we opened a new office in Pasadena, California and Pittsburgh. All in all, an incredible year of growth and strong profitability in our commercial banking business.  

Let me now shift to consumer and small-business banking. Regional banking, which includes our retail store network, had another great quarter with 4.5 million core product sales, a 19% increase from the prior year. We are now averaging 1.5 million sales per month. Only two years ago, we were at one million per month.  

Cross-sell continued to improve with a record high of 5.2 products for consumer household, up from 4.8 products a year ago and approximately three products in 1998. We continued to be successful in selling Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products, such as a debit card, a credit card, savings account, or home equity loan.  

Package sales were up 34% from the fourth quarter of 2005 and are now purchased by 63% of new checking account customers. We continue to believe that opportunity remains for further increasing our cross-sell ratio to our stretch goal of eight. Already 20% of our customers have over eight products with us, up from 17% a year ago and approximately 12% five years ago and in our top region, 29% of our customers maintain over eight products, up from 26% a year ago.  

Customer penetration and usage of debit and credit cards continued to increase. At quarter-end, 35% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 33% a year ago and up from 23% five years ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 21% from a year ago and average balances were up 19%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 83% five years ago and purchase volume increased by 15% from a year ago.  

Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households contributed to total card fees increasing by 22% from the fourth quarter of 2005. Average consumer loans decreased $6.3 billion from the fourth quarter of 2005, but excluding the real estate one-to-four family first mortgages, the loan category impacted by ARMs sold during the past year as part of the balance sheet repositioning strategy completed in the second quarter of 2006, average consumer loans continued to grow at a healthy pace, up 16% year-over-year.  

On an annualized linked-quarter basis, real estate one-to-four family junior loans grew 13%; credit card balances grew 29%; and other revolving credit and installment loans grew 9%. Excluding real estate one-to-four family first mortgages, we have had double-digit, year-over-year consumer loan growth every quarter since the second quarter of 2002.  

Average core deposits grew 6% from a year ago and were up 11% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $2.5 billion from the fourth quarter of 2005 and up $846 million from the third quarter of 2006. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 5% from the fourth quarter of 2005 and accelerated to an 11% annualized growth rate on a linked-quarter basis.  

Average retail core deposits, which exclude wholesale banking and mortgage escrow deposits, were up 3% from a year ago and accelerated to 7% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.7% from last year and small-business checking accounts were up a net 4.3% from last year.  

We are particularly pleased with the growth in consumer checking accounts in our largest market, California, which were up a net 5.6% despite the competition for accounts and customers in this market. This is the sixth consecutive quarter where net new accounts in California exceeded the average across our footprint. The incredible success we have had in growing net new accounts in California and throughout our deposit footprint reflects both the success we have had in attracting new customers, as well as retaining customer accounts due to our convenience, service and relationship focus. We maintained our disciplined deposit pricing during the quarter while competitive pricing pressure abated somewhat in most of our markets, including in California.  

We continued to invest in our retail distribution. In 2006, we opened 109 regional banking stores, including 33 stores during the last quarter, and we expect to open another 100 stores in 2007. In the last year, we added 1914 platform banker FTEs, including 326 during the fourth quarter. The number of Internet customers continued to grow. At quarter-end, we had 8.5 million active online consumers, up 18% from a year ago. 61% of all Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers, almost double the rate of four years ago.  

We had 4.8 million bill pay customers, up 43% from a year ago and active online small-business customers increased 25% from a year ago. We also increased Internet sales with consumer product sales up 29%, checking accounts up 20%, savings accounts up 41% and credit card sales up 40%, all from the fourth quarter of 2005.  

These strong financial results are due in part to the progress we are making in improving customer service. We strive for our customer loyalty, not just satisfaction. In regional banking, we conduct 50,000 store-based customer surveys per month as part of our focus on the customer experience. For our customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time scores have improved 44% and customer loyalty scores have improved 32% since January 2004.  

Since beginning the surveys in January 2004, our average profit per household has improved 26% and the percentage of households in our outstanding profit tier, our highest profitability tier, has increased by 41%. We began surveying customers following interactions with our platform bankers in July 2005. We have seen a 13% improvement in the overall customer experience during that time period.  

We have learned that team member engagement directly impacts the customer experience. The Gallup Organization helps us survey our team members to assess their level of engagement with Wells Fargo and their local work team annually. In 2006, the ratio of engaged to actively disengaged team members in regional banking rose to 7.1 to one, up from 5.8 to one in 2005 and more than three times the U.S. average of 1.9 to 1. This puts Wells Fargo in the top quartile of all companies in the Gallup team member engagement database.  

We continued to focus on better serving our small-business customers. Sales of store-based business solutions in the fourth quarter were up 18% from last year. Net business checking accounts were up 4.3% from the fourth quarter of 2005 and these strong sales results increased our cross-sell to our business banking households to 3.3, up from 3.0 a year ago.  

According to the most recent Wells Fargo Gallup small-business index completed during the fourth quarter and based on a nationwide survey of small-business owners, small-business owner optimism is at its highest point. This optimism is reflected in our overall lending to small business owners.  

Bank loans to small businesses, loans less than $100,000 on our Business Direct platform, grew 18% from the fourth quarter of 2005. For the full year, loans to small businesses increased 19% from 2005. For the fourth consecutive year, Wells Fargo is America's number one small-business lender based on 2005 total dollar volume with a 19% nationwide marketshare of bank loans less than $100,000 for the calendar year 2005.  

Our small-business bankers talked to thousands of small-business owners every day and access to capital is always top of mind when discussing key business priorities. Our goal is to continue to deepen our relationships with the 1.5 million small-business households we serve.  

Private Client Services, PCS, our private banking and investment business, achieved record results in 2006 with earnings up 14%. This growth was driven by 15% growth in average deposits and 8% growth in loans along with strong growth in investments. A year-end stock market rally helped increase brokerage assets under administration to record levels to $88 billion, up 19% from 2005. Our industry trendsetting Wells trade relationship-based pricing offer, which rewards customers who have broad brokerage and banking relationships with Wells Fargo with some of the lowest commission rates in the industry, increased our self-directed assets under administration by 36% during the quarter.  

PCS continues to hire well-qualified private bankers to better serve customers. At year-end, the number of private bankers was over 800, up 16% from year-end 2005 and up from less than 200 a few years ago. In 2006, PCS completed the rollout of a team-based integrated service model to its high net worth client base under the new Wells Fargo Private Bank brand. Wells Fargo Private Bank delivers a customized approach to wealth management through local, dedicated teams of specialists who work with clients who have Wells Fargo relationships in excess of $1 million.  

Part of Wells Fargo Private Bank is the new family wealth group, which caters to the unique needs of clients who manage their wealth as a financial family enterprise. The group provides the services of a multi-family office to clients with typically greater than $50 million in net worth and $25 million in liquidity. At year-end, PCS served over 35,000 clients with greater than $1 million with Wells Fargo, representing almost $130 billion in assets.  

Let me now turn to the mortgage business. Although down from 2005, mortgage volumes remained respectable in 2006. Net of co-issue, mortgage originations were $70 billion in the fourth quarter, down about 20% from $88 billion a year ago and down 9% from $77 billion in the third quarter.  

For the first time in 2006, mortgage gain on sale margins widened slightly in the fourth quarter due to strong investor demand in the secondary market. Mortgage applications in the fourth quarter were at $90 billion, down only slightly from $95 billion in the third quarter, but actually up $1 billion from $89 billion a year ago and the unclosed pipeline of $48 billion at year-end comes into 2007 at essentially the same level as the pipeline coming into 2006.  

Even though mortgage interest rates were slightly higher than a year ago, the flat yield curve and decline in mortgage rates since mid-2006 has actually stimulated refinancing activity. For example, as a percent of applications, re-fis rose from 34% at mid-year 2006 to 40% in the last quarter.  

The mortgage servicing portfolio continued to grow steadily. Gross servicing fees of $1 billion were up 50% from a year ago. About $140 million of which was due to the mid-year acquisition of a servicing portfolio with 1.3 million customers from Washington Mutual. Our owned servicing portfolio was $1.37 trillion at quarter-end, up 38% from a year ago and mortgage servicing customers of 7.6 million were up 37% from a year ago.  

During the fourth quarter, the impact of interest rates and interest rate spreads on mortgage servicing valuations net of hedging results was negligible. Operating expenses on the originations side of the business continued to be reduced in the fourth quarter while expenses on the servicing side of the business, including the costs of operating the servicing portfolio and associated operating platform acquired from Washington Mutual in the third quarter, increased as the size of the servicing portfolio continued to grow.  

Earnings at our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, increased from $98 million a year ago to $161 million in the fourth quarter of 2006. Last year's results were reduced by higher than normal charge-offs attributed to the change in bankruptcy law enacted in that quarter. Earnings were driven by a 22% increase in average loans.  

During the fourth quarter, Wells Fargo Financial sold the remaining consumer lending operations in Latin America, which will enable them to focus on their core businesses in the United States and Canada. This was a small deal involving only $120 million in assets.  

As expected, auto losses were essentially flat from the elevated losses we experienced in the third quarter of 2006 due in part to growth, seasoning, and typical end of year seasonal factors, which result in higher losses. We continued to work vigorously in the quarter to resolve the issues previously disclosed connected with the impact of the integration of our various auto loan platforms on extensions, delinquencies and losses.  

In the fourth quarter, we continued to hire and train new collectors, adding 200 and contracted with external collection vendors, increasing capacity by 150 collectors. We also adjusted account acquisition strategies and pricing to reduce new loan volumes, particularly in higher-risk tiers.  

Auto loans grew approximately 7% annualized from the end of the third quarter compared with a 29% increase in auto loans from the fourth quarter of 2005. Loan extension levels returned to a more normal level in the fourth quarter and we anticipate that all of these actions taken will stabilize losses in early 2007 and lead to improved loss rates.  

We monitor vintage credit performance in autos and all of our other portfolios and saw higher delinquency and losses in recent auto vintages consistent with industrywide trends. One reason for the increase in auto delinquency and recent auto vintages is that we are applying most of our collection capacity to the accounts that have been delinquent the longest in order to help mitigate losses.  

However, we did not see any material deterioration in any of the vintages, including the most recent vintages, in our other consumer portfolios, including credit cards and home equity. While we are disappointed with the short-term performance of our $27 billion auto portfolio, this portfolio has good, underlying credit characteristics. Over 70% of the auto portfolio has a FICO score above 620 and that is up from 65% last quarter and 80% of new originations have a FICO above 620.  

At quarter-end, Wells Fargo Financial's $22 billion real estate secured portfolio was up 18% from a year ago. This growth rate has slowed from recent quarters due to higher rates and slower growth rates in home values. At quarter-end, almost 90% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate portfolio was U.S.-based and non-revolving. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 644 and the average loan-to-value was 72%.  

95% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position and the average loan size was $119,000. Approximately 38% of the portfolio was fixed-rate and funded with fixed-rate debt and 62% were three-year ARMs, also essentially match funded. The majority of the ARM products are repaid prior to repricing. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest-only loans and requires full documentation and income verification.  

Residential real estate secured loans represented 38% of our loans outstanding, down from 44% a year ago. At quarter-end, we had $53 billion in one-to-four family first mortgages on our balance sheet, representing 11% of total assets, down from 16% a year ago and down from 20% in the fourth quarter of 2004, reflecting the large sales of lower yielding ARMs.  

36% of our one-to-four family first mortgages were originated at Wells Fargo Financial and approximately 65% of this portfolio had a FICO score above 620 and 24% of our one-to-four family mortgages were home-equity loans that were in a first lien position.  

We do not offer or portfolio any negative amortizing or option ARMs. We obtain mortgage insurance on higher loan-to-value loans at Wells Fargo Financial and Wells Fargo Home Mortgage and we monitor regional economic and real estate trends and modify underwriting standards as needed.  

The credit performance of our real estate secured portfolio also benefits from the fact that Wells Fargo continues to be among the highest-rated loan servicers for prime and non-prime loans. High-quality servicing improves customer service and has been demonstrated to result in lower foreclosures and losses.  

At quarter-end, 17% of our $79 billion national home equity group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 55% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO was 746 and the average combined loan-to-value was 57% based on outstanding balances and 68% including unused commitments. 54% of the portfolio was fixed rate and 71% of new production during the quarter was fixed rate.  

All loan portfolios, excluding auto, continued to perform at or better than expectations in the fourth quarter. Loss rates increased modestly from 0.86% in the third quarter to 0.92% in the fourth quarter and were in line with 0.91% in the fourth quarter of 2005, which included $171 million of incremental losses attributed to bankruptcy legislation enacted during that quarter.  

We saw a modest increase in residential real estate losses from very low run rates and commercial losses increased, but also remain very low. Non-performing assets increased $316 million on a linked-quarter basis, consisting of an increase in foreclosed assets of $139 million and an increase in non-accrual loans of $177 million. The foreclosed assets were carried at net realizable value and we believe have minimal additional loss content.  

First of all, $56 million of the $137 million increase in foreclosed assets were Ginnie Mae loans, which are fully collectible because they are insured by FHA or guaranteed by the VA. The $81 million increase in other foreclosed assets included residential real estate loans and repossessed autos and have already been written down to net realizable value.  

With respect to the increase in non-accrual loans, $93 million of the increase was in residential real estate first mortgages, which we view as normal seasoning. The $75 million increase in commercial non-accrual loans reflected a normal increase from the unusually low levels of the past several quarters. The $543 million of total commercial and commercial real estate non-accrual loans at year-end remained at historically low levels and had minimal land real estate construction or condo conversion exposure.  

A few other items in closing. Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains as it has now done for 14 consecutive quarters and it had a cost basis of $1.7 billion at year-end. At year-end, we had $204 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio and we had an additional $722 million in unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale at year-end reflecting one of the best yielding fixed income portfolios among U.S. banks due to our continued and long-standing focus on long-term yields. Combined, our securities available for sale portfolio had unrealized gains of $926 million.  

As I mentioned earlier, we culled approximately $800 million in trust preferred capital securities with an average rate of 8% late in the quarter. Because we were able to refinance the trust preferred securities at a rate approximately 200 basis points lower, our interest expense will be reduced by approximately $320 million over the next 20 years.  

We also issued new hybrid preferred capital during the quarter at the lowest premium ever paid by any U.S. corporation for permanent capital like these securities. Wells Fargo Bank was upgraded by Standard & Poor's in 2006 and they have put us on positive watch for a possible AAA rating, which, if it happens, would make us the only U.S. bank with a double triple, a AAA from both large rating agencies.  

During the quarter, we bought back 11 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock and 61.8 million shares remained available for repurchase on the board authority at quarter-end. Last week, we announced that the acquisition of Placer Sierra Bancshares with $2.7 billion in assets. This is our largest bank deal since the Pacific Northwest acquisition in 2003. Placer Sierra, with 50 stores in California, is exactly the kind of fill-in acquisition that we love. It increases our retail distribution in a fast-growing state while meeting our internal rate of return target of at least 15%.  

So in conclusion, we ended 2006 setting new records for earnings per share and revenue while we continued to invest in our distribution channels, our team members, and our technology to better serve our customers in 2007, our 156th year of meeting our customers' financial needs. Thank you for listening, and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020070123e31g000b8
  


 HD
 Q3  2006 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
5,730 words
   PD
17 October 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: This replay will be available until October 20, 2006 at 11:59 PM Eastern time. Welcome to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello. This is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo third quarter 2006 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our third quarter we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including statements about future credit losses and credit quality generally. And more specifically about our belief that we will see an improvement in early 2007 in collections relating to our consumer auto loans and that the integration of the collection practices for the prime and nonprime auto loan portfolios will provide cost savings in the long-term and our expectations that we will not incur additional Hurricane Katrina related losses. We also make forward-looking statements about our expected tax rate for full-year 2006, our expectation that the wholesale commercial business will grow faster than the consumer business during the expansion phase of the business cycle and the tailoring our origination expense to origination volume.  

The forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our third quarter results. And to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Despite the uncertain economic and interest rate environment that prevailed in the third quarter our diverse group of businesses once again produced strong results. Earnings per share grew to 10% from a year ago to a record $0.64, and the net income was up a very strong 11% from a year ago to a record $2.2 billion. The Company's double-digit earnings growth rate once again was driven by solid revenue growth, positive operating leverage and wider operating margins. Total revenue increased 5% from a year ago, combined revenue of businesses other than home mortgage was up a strong 13%. Virtually every one of our businesses had double-digit revenue growth in the third quarter including regional banking, business direct, merchant card services, credit cards, debit cards, corporate trust, commercial banking, asset based lending, real estate brokerage, insurance, international, commercial real estate, specialized financial services and consumer finance.  

Mortgage revenue declined year-over-year, but principally because the third quarter of last year included a large mortgage servicing rights valuation reserve release reflecting the 51 basis point increase in mortgage rates during that particular quarter. Expense growth of 4% was below our revenue growth rate, improving our efficiency ratio to 56.9%, down from 57.5% a year ago. In order to sustain high revenue growth over time with positive operating leverage, we continued to invest in our businesses in the third quarter once again largely in stores and salespeople, while reducing expenses in less critical or lower growth activities.  

We continued to have the widest net interest margin among large bank holding companies. Our net interest margin rose to 4.9% in the third quarter, up 3 basis points from the second quarter. The relative stability of our margin reflects the success we've had in managing our loan and securities portfolios for high long-term yield and also reflects the continued growth in our large base of core deposits, while we've maintained disciplined deposit pricing. At 1.76% our return on assets after all expenses and credit costs remains one of the highest in banking and improved five basis points from the second quarter despite higher credit losses in the third quarter of 2006.  

As with our net interest margin our ability to maintain a wide return on assets reflects the fact that we have sold assets with low spreads relative to their risk in the last two years. And our return on equity rose to 20%, one of the highest return on equities in banking at the same time as our capital ratios also improved giving us considerable capacity for future growth and returns. These strong operating and financial results were due to strength in most of our commercial and consumer businesses, and let me now give you some details on how our businesses performed. Our wholesale commercial banking group, which serves middle market and corporate customers, had extremely strong results in the third quarter. Net income increased 31% from a year ago, driven by 20% revenue growth, positive operating leverage and excellent credit quality. Wholesale banking is a very large component of our diversified business model. If it were a stand-alone company our wholesale banking business would be the nation's 16th largest bank. We've expected that this business would grow at a faster rate than consumer during the expansion phase of the business cycle and in fact, this is what has been occurring.  

Wholesale banking accounted for 24% of Wells Fargo's consolidated earnings, up from 20% in the third quarter of 2005. Revenue growth in earnings in wholesale were driven by strong loan growth and cross sell success. Loans to middle market and large corporate customers in the wholesale banking group grew 14% year-over-year and 11% annualized linked quarter. Asset-based lending, trade finance, real estate and specialized financial services which includes our relationships with many Fortune 500 companies, all experienced double-digit loan growth.  

C&I loans, which includes commercial loans in our wholesale segment as well as commercial loans in other segments have now grown in the last 12 consecutive quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $11 billion or 10% from the third quarter of 2005 and $2.2 billion or 8% annualized on a linked quarter basis. At quarter end C&I loans accounted for 38% of total Wells Fargo loans.  

Credit quality in the wholesale segment remained exceptional with no net loan losses in the third quarter of 2006 and net recoveries for the first nine months of the year. Wholesale banking customers had a cross sell of 5.9 products, and our middle market commercial customers had average cross sell over seven products. Our number one market share position in the West and our success at cross sell is driving strong growth in fee income and makes us somewhat less dependent on loan growth to maintain earnings growth.  

Fee income which includes fees from asset management, capital markets, equity investments, insurance, real estate brokerage and treasury management contributed 58% of total wholesale banking revenues in the third quarter. Despite a highly competitive marketplace the asset-based lending groups revenue grew 16%, driven by 16% growth in earning assets. In our asset and investment management business mutual fund balances grew 10% and separate accounts grew 9%. These growth rates were above the rate of market appreciation during this period, reflecting the success in growing new customers and new assets from existing customers.  

Capital markets activities, including equity investing results were strong in our wholesale banking group. Now commercial mortgage group completed a purchase of Reilly Mortgage, a multi-family residential mortgage lender servicer and also announced the acquisition of investment banking firm, Barrington & Associates. We continued to achieve significant growth in usage of our desktop deposit service, a service that allows businesses to deposit checks using images and data rather than physically presenting them to the bank. This product has brought appeal across our business customer base. Enrollment and dollars processed through the service continued to grow rapidly.  

Through the first nine months of 2006 a number of businesses using desktop deposit more than tripled to over 1800. Since its inception, more than 23 million checks with a total value of $90 billion have been processed through our desktop deposit service. This innovative service helps customers manage their cash more efficiently while reducing our check processing costs. This distinctive service has brought in new customers across the United States and has helped us deepen relationship with existing customers. Desktop customers have grown treasury management revenues at about twice the rate of non desktop customers.  

We are also seeing greater usage of the commercial electronic office or CEO, our online portal for commercial customers, used by two-thirds of our middle market and large corporate customers. Nearly 100% of our CEO customers use the portal daily. Total user logins increased 20% from the third quarter of 2005. Similar to desktop deposit, the CEO portal has appeal beyond our wholesale banking customers with 50% of the net new customers in 2006 coming from our community banking group. Global Finance Magazine recently cited the CEO portal as the best corporate website design.  

Let me now shift to consumer and small business banking. Regional banking which includes our retail store network, had another record-breaking quarter with 5 million core product sales, a 17% increase from the prior year. Cross sell continued to improve with a record high of 5.1 products per consumer household, up from 4.8 products a year ago and approximately 3 products in 1998. We continued to be successful in selling Wells Fargo packages which include a checking account and at least three other products such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan. Package sales were up 37% from the third quarter of 2005. Now purchased by 63% of new checking account customers. We continue to believe that opportunity remains while further increasing our cross sell ratio to our stretch goal of 8. Already 19% of our customers have over 8 products with us, up from 16% a year ago and in our top region, 29% of our customers maintain over 8 products, up from 25% a year ago.  

Customer penetration and usage of debit and credit cards continued to increase. At quarter end 34% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 32% a year ago and up from 23% five years ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 21% from a year ago and average balances were up 18%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 90% a year ago and up from 83% five years ago, and purchase volume increased by 16% from a year ago. Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households contributed to total card fees increasing by 23% from the third quarter of 2005.  

Average consumer loans decreased $4.2 billion from the third quarter of 2005 but excluding real estate, one to four family first mortgages, the loan category impacted by ARMs sold during the past year as part of the balance sheet repositioning strategy we completed in the second quarter of 2006, average consumer loans continued to grow at a healthy pace, up 16% year-over-year. Average consumer loan growth accelerated to 19% annualized on a linked quarter basis excluding real estate one to four family first mortgages.  

On an annualized linked quarter basis home equity loans grew 21%, credit card balances grew 29% and other revolving credit and installment loans grew 15%. Excluding real estate one to four family first mortgages we have had double-digit year-over-year consumer loan growth every quarter since the second quarter of 2002.  

Average core deposits grew 5% from a year ago, and were up 4% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $367 million from the third quarter of 2005 and up $1.8 billion from the second quarter of 2006. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 6% from the third quarter of 2005 and 2% annualized on a linked quarter basis. While deposit balance growth slowed in the third quarter, in line with national trends, our success in selling, serving and retaining deposit customers continued to produce strong results in terms of net account growth.  

Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.6% from last year and small-business checking accounts were up a net 4.2% from last year. We are particularly pleased with the growth in consumer checking accounts in our largest market, California, which were up a net 5.4% despite the competition for accounts and customers in this market. Interest-bearing deposits, particularly low-cost checking, savings and CDs, have recently been growing at a faster rate than non-interest-bearing deposits. The difference in growth rates is very consistent with recent trends in the national monetary aggregates and in part is related to increased customer demand for yield in today's higher interest rate environment, as well as recent tightening of money supply growth by the Fed. Nearly half of the increase in interest bearing core deposits has come from our success in offering portfolio management accounts which include interest-bearing checking to our high-value customers rather than from sales of higher cost and term deposits to single product customers.  

Our internal analysis indicates that a large portion of the growth in interest-bearing deposits is net new money to Wells Fargo either in PMA accounts or savings CDs. While some competitors have become very aggressive in term deposit rates, overall the markets we operate in and particularly the national and large regional competitors, have remained relatively disciplined. And while the weighted average cost of total deposits has increased in line with the faster rate of growth of interest-bearing deposits, the value of core deposits has also increased from a year ago particularly the value of non-interest bearing deposits which represented about 34% of total core deposits in the third quarter.  

Our ability to continue to grow deposits while maintaining disciplined pricing continued to be a contributing factor to our industry-leading and relatively stable net interest margin in the third quarter. We continue to invest in our retail distribution. In the past 12 months we have opened 119 regional banking stores, including 27 stores during the last quarter. In the last year we added 2066 platform banker FTE's, including 667 during the third quarter. During the quarter we added 82 net new Web-enabled ATMs to our 100% Web-enabled ATM network of 6635 ATMs. We are now also offering our customers envelope free ATMs which eliminate deposit envelopes and convert paper checks into digital images. We are the first U.S. Bank to offer [all] check deposits, allowing customers to deposit stacks of checks into the machine at one time; an image of the check appears on the screen and on the receipt. Check amounts are automatically read, summed up and presented on screen to the customer. Envelope free ATMs also accept cash, giving customers an itemized count by denomination on the screen and receipt. Because we've integrated our systems with our host, we can offer instant fund access to cash deposits and later cut off times for check deposits. As of September 30th we had installed 226 envelope-free ATMs in northern California and plan to deploy over 400 by the end of the year.  

The number of Internet customers continue to grow. At quarter end we had 8.3 million active online consumers, up 17% from a year ago. 60% of all Wells Fargo consumer checking account customers are now active online customers, almost double the rate of four years ago. We had 4.4 million bill pay customers, up 46% from a year ago and active online small-business customers increased 24% from a year ago. We also increased Internet sales with consumer product sales of 25%, checking accounts of 21% and credit card sales up 31% from the third quarter of 2005. We continue to focus on better serving our small-business customers. Sales of store based business solutions were up 21% from last year. Net business checking accounts were up 4.2% from the third quarter of 2005, loans to small businesses, loans in amounts less than $100,000 on our business direct platform, grew 18% from the prior year. These strong sales results increased our cross sell to our business banking households to 3.2, up from 2.9 a year ago.  

Another reason for our continued success in the consumer segment is our focus on customer service. We strive for customer loyalty, not just satisfaction. In regional banking we perform 50,000 customer telephone interviews per month, and with that information we are learning the leading indicators and activities to manage. Each one of our stores receives feedback from these surveys weekly. They have processes for reviewing and taking action based on the results and an increasing portion of our incentive compensation in regional banking is based on these customer service results.  

Since we began this survey process a couple of years ago we have conducted over one million customer interviews. Our customers are telling us their experiences with our tellers or bankers when they are greeted in the lobby, waiting in line or opening a new account are improving. For customers transacting at the teller line, welcoming and wait time service scores have improved 36%, and customer loyalty scores have improved 23% since January 2004. Over the same time period our average profit per household has improved 23%, and the percentage of households in our outstanding profiteer, our highest profitability tier has increased by 37%. We began surveying customers following interactions with our platform bankers in July, 2005. We've seen a 13% improvement in the overall banker customer experience during that time period.  

We focus on service in all of our businesses. According to a recent nationally syndicated customer satisfaction study Wells Fargo was the only mortgage lender to rank in the top five of both sales volume and service satisfaction. Home mortgage also earned Freddie Mac's prestigious designation as a Tier 1 platinum servicer for its outstanding performance in 2005. In wholesale banking according to a leading research firm, Wells Fargo stands apart from the competition with excellent satisfaction scores in the commercial middle market because of our above average, relationship based business model.  

I am going to turn to the mortgage business. The mortgage business had relatively good results in the third quarter despite the challenging interest rate and yield curve environment. Although revenue decline from the third quarter of 2005, the quarter in which a 51 basis point increase in rates resulted in a $356 million mortgage servicing rights valuation reserve release. Servicing fees continue to increase in line with the steady growth in our portfolio of mortgage loans to service. Gross servicing fees in the third quarter increased to $947 million, up 53% from a year ago and up 62% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Approximately a quarter of the year-over-year growth rate and two-thirds of the linked quarter growth rate was attributable to the previously announced acquisition of a $140 billion servicing portfolio from Washington Mutual.  

Our owned servicing portfolio was $1.33 trillion at quarter end, up 42% from a year ago, of which 15% was due to the Washington Mutual servicing portfolio acquisition. Notwithstanding the large decline in long-term rates during the third quarter of 2006 and the further inversion of the yield curve, our MSR management and hedging activities continued to perform relatively well. On average over the last five or more years we have tended to under hedge with financial hedges, the potential MSR valuation changes due to interest rates because the origination side of the mortgage business has tended to be a partial hedge to servicing. Had we remained under hedged, one would expect the decline in servicing value to greatly exceed any hedging gains in a quarter like the third quarter of 2006, when long-term mortgage rates declined by 48 basis points. Just like we had a large net gain in the third quarter of 2005 when interest rates climbed 51 basis points.  

However, as long-term interest rates reached higher levels earlier this year and the yield curve flattened, we increased the proportion of MSRs being hedged with financial hedges, including holding more securities on balance sheet to hedge this risk. As a consequence, the net result of changes in interest rates on MSR valuation net of hedging results was close to breakeven in the second quarter of 2006 when rates increased, and only a modest loss in the third quarter of 2006 when rates declined.  

The third quarter 2006 loss was comprised of the following elements. An $86 million net loss on market related valuation changes to MSRs reflecting the decline in MSR value due to lower rates, net of the gain on financial hedging instruments, a $106 million gain on the sale of fixed income securities that were being held as on balance sheet hedges. In our press release and these recorded comments these gains are included in descriptions of Wells Fargo home mortgage revenue, although the gains are included in net gain on debt securities available for sale in our published financial statements. A $38 million loss in the third quarter on certain forward securities sales contracts which were closed out by early October. This loss is reflected in other noninterest income, and there will be no additional loss on these contracts in the fourth quarter.  

A $48 million loss due to the impact of interest rate volatility on ARM spreads reflecting changes in the value of our ARM production held for sale, not fully offset by our treasury and LIBOR index based economic hedging activity. This loss is reflected in net gains on mortgage loan origination sales activities. At $92 billion for the quarter home mortgage originations were down $11 billion from the second quarter and up $2 billion from the third quarter of 2005. However, net of co-issue mortgages home mortgage originations in the third quarter were $65 million, essentially the same as the second quarter of '06, although down 18% from the $79 billion in home mortgage originations in the strong third quarter of last year.  

Compared with the second quarter purchase mortgage activity was good in the third quarter and was complemented by a higher level of refis. Wells Fargo has a number of important co-issue arrangements in the correspondent channel in which Wells Fargo becomes the servicer while avoiding any involvement in the securitization or seller liability. While co-issue volume is included in our origination volume activity, there is no gain on sale since we never take legal possession of the loans. Co-issue provides an important and steady source of servicing fees. One reason we had such success in this activity is that we are now widely recognized by mortgage investors as an industry leader in servicing and the financial institutions in the correspondent channel that are securitizing these loans improved liquidity of their securities by choosing us as the highest quality servicer.  

Net of co-issuance, correspondent and wholesale originations represented about 55% of total home mortgage originations in the third quarter, up slightly from 47% a year ago. Total home mortgage expenses including $14 million in additional expenses related to the servicing portfolio acquired from Washington Mutual were reduced by 5% from a year ago. This is somewhat less than the decline in originations net of co-issue from a year ago but keep in mind total servicing grew 42% in the same period. 5% reduction in expenses is in line with the relative changes in originations and servicing. We will continue to tailor origination expense to origination volume and to seek economies of scale to servicing.  

Earnings at our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, increased from $79 million in the third quarter of 2005 to $194 million in the third quarter of 2006. However, third quarter of 2005 included a $100 million pre-tax provision expense for Hurricane Katrina and third quarter of this year included a $50 million reversal of that provision. Adjusting for Katrina, the year-over-year earnings growth at Wells Fargo Financial was in line with its 15% revenue growth which in turn was driven by a 22% year-over-year increase in earning assets. While still strong, year-over-year growth in earning assets declined somewhat to a more measured pace, in part reflecting a decline in nonprime auto originations during the quarter.  

Wells Fargo Financial also benefited from positive operating leverage with expenses up only 7% year-over-year. On a linked quarter basis, earnings declined $36 million due to higher credit losses. Wells Fargo Financial's high-growth real estate secured portfolio continued to perform well. Consumer auto losses, however, increased $130 million from a year ago and $150 million from the second quarter of 2006. Earlier this year we combined our prime and nonprime oil businesses organizationally and began to integrate them operationally. The purpose of combining these businesses is to adopt best practices to install consistent pricing for risk and to achieve economies of scale. In late spring of 2006 Wells Fargo Financial temporarily restricted the frequency and volume of payment extensions for a period of time while they were evaluating all of their credit policies, business processes, collection practices and staffing levels across the newly combined auto business. This took place at a time when the portfolio continued to grow and the industry overall was experiencing some increase in delinquencies and loss rates.  

As a result of nearly eliminating extensions in this period, 90 days past due increased late in the second quarter and losses materialized in the third quarter. During the third quarter Wells Fargo Financial adopted payment and collection standards and practices appropriate for the combined portfolio. Monthly extensions are now running at a more normal level. Wells Fargo Financial has also begun reducing higher risk new auto loans and has increased collection staff and managers by 1000 FTE's or 60% since the beginning of 2006. We believe we will see improvement in collections by early 2007, but losses will remain above normal through at least the fourth quarter given limits to how fast the increased collection capability produces effective results.  

While we are disappointed with the short-term performance of the auto portfolio, this portfolio has good underlying credit characteristics. Over 65% of the auto portfolio has a FICO score above 620. The portfolio is geographically diverse with the biggest concentration only 15% coming from Texas. Only 10% of the portfolio is from California.  

Let me now shift to overall credit quality. Our overall credit quality remained acceptable in the third quarter. Our wholesale businesses continue to show virtually no net losses. However, we saw an increase in loss rates in consumer loans from 0.9% in the third quarter of 2005 to 1.16% in the third quarter of 2006, due primarily to higher losses in other revolving credit and installment loans. Losses in this category increased $176 million on a linked quarter basis, primarily due to the losses described earlier in the consumer auto loan portfolio. Third quarter loan loss rates in other consumer loan categories were comparable to or better than loss rates in the third quarter of 2005 and were well within a range of acceptable expected losses.  

During the third quarter of 2005 we provided an additional $100 million to the allowance for credit losses due to higher anticipated losses in our consumer loan portfolio from Hurricane Katrina. Through the end of the third quarter of 2006 we have recognized approximately $50 million of net credit losses attributable to Katrina. After carefully identifying all accounts potentially impacted by Katrina, we do not anticipate additional Katrina related losses. Therefore, during the quarter we reversed the remaining $50 million of Katrina allowance. We believe our allowance for credit losses at the end of the third quarter was adequate to cover losses inherent in the loan portfolio.  

Residential real estate secured loans represented 38% of our loans outstanding, down from 43% a year ago. At quarter end we had $50 billion in one to four family first mortgages on our balance sheet representing 10% of total assets, down from 15% of total assets a year ago and down from 21% in the third quarter of 2004. This reflects the sales of all of our lower yielding ARMs. 37% of our one to four family first mortgages were originated at Wells Fargo Financial, and approximately 63% of this portfolio had FICO scores above 620. 27% of our one to four family first mortgages for home equity loans that were in the first position. At quarter end 17% of our $78 billion national home equity group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 55% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO on this portfolio was 746, and the average combined loan to value was 56% based on outstanding balances and 67% including unused commitments. 51% of this portfolio was fixed rate, and 71% of new production during the quarter was also fixed rate.  

At quarter end the Wells Fargo Financial's $22 million real estate secured portfolio was up 21% from a year ago. This growth rate has slowed somewhat from recent quarters due to higher interest rates and slower growth rates in home values. At quarter end almost 90% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate portfolio was U.S.-based and nonrevolving. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 643, and the average loan to value was 72%. 96% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position, and the average loan size was $117,000. Approximately 35% of this portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed-rate debt and 65% are three-year ARMs, also essentially match funded. The majority of the ARM products are repaid prior to repricing. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest only or no doc loans.  

A few other items in closing. Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains as it is now done for 13 consecutive quarters and had a cost basis of $1.7 billion at quarter end. At quarter end we had $232 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio. With the decline in long-term interest rates during the third quarter we had $733 million in unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale at quarter end reflecting one of the best yielding fixed income portfolios among U.S. Banks due to our continued and long-standing focus on long-term yields. Combined, our securities available for sale portfolio had unrealized gains of $965 million, the highest since the second quarter of 2005.  

During the quarter we bought back 11 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock. 72.9 million shares remained available for repurchase under board authority at quarter end. Our tax rate was slightly lower this quarter, reflecting the normal quarterly update of our 2006 expected annual effective tax rate, including the impact of our dealings with various taxing jurisdictions. The year-to-date tax rate of 33.45% reflects our current expectations for full-year 2006.  

During the quarter, Standard & Poor's upgraded Wells Fargo Bank N.A. to AA+, making Wells Fargo S&P's highest credit rated Bank in the United States. S&P cited Wells Fargo's consistency of core profitability, leading market share position in several businesses, strong capital measures, conservative risk management, stable net interest margin and a balanced business model generating consistently strong operating results. All of these strengths were clearly demonstrated in our record third quarter results.  

Additionally, Wells Fargo is ranked as the 12th most respected company in the world according to a survey of institutional money managers published in Barron's Magazine, up from 18th in the Magazine's first ever survey last year. In conclusion, we once again achieved another record quarter with double-digit earnings per share growth and strong results on numerous financial measures including a 20% return on equity.  

Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020061031e2ah000gu
  


 HD
 Q2  2006 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
5,135 words
   PD
18 July 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR-IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello. This is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo second-quarter 2006 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our second quarter, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.  

In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items, and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including the expected continued growth in servicing fees; expectations about the ability of consumers to make their mortgage payments if housing prices moderate or decline; the expected impact of reduced refinancing activity on our residential real estate portfolio; the impact of debt securities purchased in the quarter on future investment portfolio yield; and the likelihood of additional private equity gains absent a reversal in equity values.  

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our second-quarter results, and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC, and to the information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. The second quarter at Wells Fargo was not only a great quarter for us, it was one of our best quarters ever. The Company and many of its individual operating businesses set numerous records in the quarter, including the following. Record earnings per share of $1.23, up 10% from a year ago, and up 13% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Record quarterly net income of $2.09 billion, up 9% from a year ago and up 14% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Record quarterly revenue of $8.8 billion, up 12% from last year and up 11% annualized from the first quarter of 2006. Record consolidated assets of $500 billion and average earning assets of $422 billion, up 13% from a year ago. Record average core deposits of $258 billion, up 8% from a year ago.  

Within Wells Fargo Asset Management Group, assets under management reached a record $223 billion, up 10% from a year ago. In our mortgage business, record mortgage servicing portfolio of $1.1 trillion, up 27% from a year ago. And in our insurance business, record insurance revenue of $364 million, up 2% from a year ago.  

And perhaps most important in terms of value added to our customers and to our shareholders, record cross-sell of five products in our consumer business and a record 5.9 products in our commercial business, both up from approximately three products at the time of the Wells Fargo-Norwest merger in 1998.  

Our track record of solid double-digit growth continued in the second quarter. Even after taking into account $250 million of pre-tax losses, or $0.10 per share, from balance sheet repositioning in the quarter, which I will describe shortly, earnings per share were up 10%. We have now grown EPS by at least 10% in 17 of last 18 quarters. Revenue grew 12%, despite taking the $250 million of losses in revenue from the repositioning actions, which reduced reported revenue by 3 percentage points.  

The solid double-digit growth in the top line and bottom line was driven by strong, and in some cases, accelerating momentum in most of our consumer and commercial operating businesses. Let me describe in some detail just how strong our operating results were.  

Regional banking, which includes our retail store network, had another record-breaking quarter, with 4.6 million core product sales, a 15% increase from the prior year. As a result of continued strong sales performance over the past several quarters, regional banking achieved an important milestone, with a record high of five products per consumer household, up from three at the time of the Norwest-Wells merger in 1998.  

We continued to be successful in selling Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products, such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan. Packaged sales were up 48% from the second quarter of 2005, purchased by 58% of new checking account customers. We continue to believe that opportunity remains for further increasing our cross-sell ratio to our stretch goal of eight. Already, 18% of our customers have over eight products with us; in our top regions, 28% of customers maintain over eight products.  

Customer penetration and usage of debit and credit cards continued to increase. At quarter end, 34% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 32% a year ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 23% from a year ago and average balances were up 14%.  

91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 90% a year ago, and purchase volume increased by 20% from a year ago. Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households contributed to total card fees increasing by 16% from the second quarter of 2005, and this was all organic growth.  

Average consumer loans decreased $9.2 billion from the second quarter of 2005. Excluding real estate one- to four-family first mortgages, the loan category impacted by the $26 billion in ARM sales sold during the quarter, consumer loans continued to grow at a healthy pace, up 14% year-over-year. Average consumer loan growth accelerated to 16% annualized on a linked-quarter basis, excluding real estate one- to four-family first mortgages.  

On an annualized linked-quarter basis, home equity loans grew 18% and other evolving credit and installment loans grew 15%. Excluding real estate one- to four-family first mortgages, we have had double-digit year-over-year consumer loan growth every quarter since the second quarter of 2002.  

Average core deposits grew 8% from a year ago and were up 6% annualized from the first quarter of 2006. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $1.5 billion from the second quarter of 2005 and up $2.1 billion from the first quarter of 2006. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 8% from the second quarter of 2005 and 3% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. The solid 8% growth in core deposits was comprised of continued strong growth in consumer checking, with more modest growth in market rate CDs.  

Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.8 billion, or 11%, from the second quarter of 2005, and $2.3 billion, or 16% annualized on a linked-quarter basis, driven in part by our continued success in selling checking accounts, with consumer checking accounts up a net 4.5% from last year.  

While we continue to grow deposit accounts, the average balance per consumer account declined slightly in the second quarter. This is likely due in part to higher debt payments being made by our customers as a result of higher rates on residential real estate loans and higher minimum payments on credit cards and also higher gas prices. We have seen similar average balance declines in past cycles and have found that consumers are very disciplined and adjust their cash needs to their income levels, especially during good economic conditions like we currently have, with good employment and job and income growth.  

While low-cost checking account growth at Wells Fargo remains strong, market rate deposit account growth was more modest in the second quarter than in prior quarters. Market rate deposit pricing remains competitive, although less so in the West than in the Midwest and East Coast markets. We are particularly pleased with the growth in checking accounts, since those accounts usually represent the beginning of a more complete banking relationship with the consumer.  

Growth in consumer banking is being driven by our continued focus on building our retail distribution. In the past 12 months, we have opened 129 regional banking stores, including 26 stores during the last quarter. Also during the last quarter, we added 50 net new Web-enabled ATMs to our 100% Web-enabled ATM networks. In the last year, we added 2087 platform banker FTEs, including 551 during the quarter.  

Internet customers continued to grow. At quarter end, we had 7.9 million active online consumers, up 17% from a year ago. We had 3.9 million bill pay customers, up 46% from a year ago, and active online small-business customers increased 23% from a year ago. We also increased Internet sales, with consumer product sales up 29%, student loans up 30%, checking accounts up 26%, and credit card sales up 20% from the second quarter of 2005.  

Another reason for our continued success in the consumer business is our focus on customer service. We strive for customer loyalty, not just satisfaction. In regional banking, we perform 50,000 customer telephone interviews per month, and with that information, we are learning the leading indicators and activities to manage.  

Each one of our stores receives feedback from these surveys weekly. They have processes for reviewing and taking action based on the results. An increasing portion of our incentive in regional banking is based on these customer service results.  

Since we began this service, the survey process, a couple of years ago, we conducted over 1 million customer interviews. Our customers are telling us their experiences with our tellers or bankers when they're greeted in the lobby, waiting in line or opening a new account are improving. For customers transacting at the teller line, wait time and welcoming satisfaction has improved 28%, and overall customer loyalty has improved 20% since January 2004.  

As our customer experience scores have improved, so have a number of key retention and household profitability measures. Since 2004, we have seen a 14% improvement in high value household attrition. Over the same time period, our average profit per household has improved 24% and the percentage of households in our outstanding profit tier, our highest profitability tier, has improved by 37%.  

We have been working on improving customer service throughout Wells Fargo, not just in our banking stores. One example is our enterprise call center strategy that we started in 2003. Our call centers service 20 million calls per month, and our goal has been to use these points of customer contact to increase customer satisfaction, improve retention rates and increase cross-selling opportunities by providing an outstanding call center experience with each interaction pleasantly and effectively addressing all customers' needs and positively differentiating Wells Fargo from its competitors. We are now using common authentication, providing more information about our customers on-screen so our phone bankers can better serve the customer, and using warm transfers within and across business units.  

Our call center strategy has also resulted in more sales. By providing every call center with access to a common customer profile, our phone bankers are able to offer the right product to the right customer. Last year, we increased sales through our call centers by 18%. Our call centers are not only among the best in the industry; they are among the very best in any industry.  

We continued to focus on better serving our small-business customers. Sales of store-based business solutions were up 27% from last year. Net business checking accounts were up 4.4% from the second quarter of 2005. Loans to small businesses -- in other words, loans less than $100,000 on our Business Direct platform -- grew 19% from the prior year. These strong sales results increased our cross-sell to our business banking households to 3.1, up from 2.8 a year ago.  

Included in total business banking cross-sell, our cross-sell ratio for business banker managed customers, which are typically businesses with between $2 million and $20 million in annual revenue, increased to 4.6 products.  

We continued to have good growth in our private banking and investment business private client services, one of our best opportunities for future growth. In the second quarter, PCS grew revenues at 11% compared to a year ago, with average core deposits growing at 14% and average loans growing at 9%. PCS also grew investments, with brokerage assets in administration up 17% from last year and Wells Trade assets up 23%.  

PCS continued to add to its sales force, with licensed bankers up 13% from last year and private bankers up 24%. Wells Fargo was recently rated third in Kiplinger's annual survey of online brokerage firms. Kiplinger highlighted the low commission rates that Wells Fargo customers can get with a Wells Trade brokerage account.  

Let me now turn to the mortgage business. Despite a 147 basis point increase in ARM rates and a 100 basis point increase in long-term mortgage rates since last year, including relatively large rate increases in just the last quarter, our production of mortgages remained strong in the second quarter, with mortgage originations of $116 billion, up 27% from the first quarter. So far this year, mortgage originations were $207 billion, up 38% from the first half of 2005. Mortgage applications remained strong at $108 billion during the second quarter, up 14% from the prior quarter. Despite the fact that mortgage interest rates at quarter end were at their highest level since mid 2001, the application pipeline at June 30th, 2006 stood at $63 billion, up 7% from the end of last quarter.  

While refi activity has declined from the very low rate period in 2002/2003, many consumers were still locking in longer-term ARM and fixed-rate mortgages in the second quarter to protect against higher rates, and the purchase mortgage market remained strong as well. As a percent of total originations, refis were 34% in the second quarter of 2006 compared with 77% in the middle of 2003. Mortgage banking net noninterest income increased by $498 million from the second quarter of 2005, in large part due to this business growth.  

On the originations side of the business, higher volume increased gain on sale of mortgages by $109 million from last year, despite the $94 million loss on the sale of ARMs in the second quarter of 2006.  

Growth in servicing also boosted mortgage banking noninterest income. Our continued success in satisfying the mortgage financing needs of consumers across the United States has driven substantial growth in the servicing side of our mortgage business. Our owned servicing portfolio reached a record $1.11 trillion at the quarter end, up 27% from a year ago and up 27% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. As a result of this increase in the size of the servicing portfolio, gross servicing fees reached $820 million, up $227 million from last year. These gross servicing fees were substantial and will continue to grow as our servicing portfolio grows.  

The remainder of the increase in net servicing income from last year was due to the change in the value of the mortgage servicing rights, net of associated hedging costs. In the second quarter of 2006, a quarter in which mortgage rates increased, the value of mortgage servicing rights, net of economic hedging results, was a $17 million gain. In the second quarter of 2005, a quarter in which mortgage rates declined, the comparable interest rate related impact -- in other words, impairment provision expense, net of derivative hedging gains -- was a $199 million loss.  

Our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, had record results for the quarter, with double-digit revenue and earnings growth. Average loans increased 24% from the second quarter of 2005, with real estate secured loans up 25% and auto receivables up 30%.  

Two large projects, which I highlighted last quarter, were completed in June. The integration of consumer lending stores and auto lending stores into a single store network consisting of 1031 stores is now complete. This integration resulted in $200 million in incremental loan volumes for the consumer finance business during the quarter.  

The national launch of the Spectrum Pricing product for our auto dealer customers provides them with retail financing options designed to meet all of the dealer's automotive financing needs across the credit spectrum. We are one of the few indirect auto lenders in the country that can offer dealers the convenience of submitting one application to a central source to service both prime and nonprime customers.  

Wells Fargo Financial is also having success in cross selling traditional bank products to Wells Fargo Financial households. Last year, they partnered with the bank to generate $360 million in annual after-tax profit from the sale of bank products to their customers, and through the second quarter of this year they have generated $420 million of annualized after-tax profit for the bank.  

Our Wholesale Banking group continued to have strong growth, with revenue up 12% and net income up 7% from the second quarter of 2005. At the end of the second quarter, Wholesale customers had a record cross-sell of 5.9 products, up from 5.7 products at year-end 2005. Our middle market commercial banking customers had an average cross-sell of over 7.  

In our wholesale and commercial businesses, we once again saw solid commercial loan growth. Our C&I loans have now grown 11 consecutive quarters, with double-digit growth in each of the last seven quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $12 billion, or 12%, from the second quarter of 2005, and $3.6 billion, or 13% annualized, on a linked-quarter basis. At quarter end, C&I loans accounted for 38% of total loans at Wells Fargo.  

In our Wholesale Banking group, which serves middle market and large corporate customers, average commercial loans grew 15% year-over-year and accelerated to 16% annualized linked-quarter. Wholesale Banking had double-digit loan growth year-over-year in asset-based lending, international, real estate and specialized financial services.  

Our Wholesale Banking group continued to increase its distribution by opening new stores and filling in its outstanding product capability with skill-based acquisitions. In the second quarter, Wholesale Banking opened commercial real estate offices in Richmond, Virginia and Winston-Salem, North Carolina, and a foreign exchange sales office in Atlanta. Wholesale Banking did not open any RCBO offices this quarter, but it did open six regional offices over the last 12 months, most of which extended our commercial banking reach in the Midwest and the East.  

The pending acquisition of Reilly Mortgage Group will enable us to provide financing to owners and operators of multi-family properties through the lending programs of Freddie Mac, Fannie Mae and FHA.  

The acquisition of LaSalle Bank's Employee Benefit Trust business helps us grow our trust- and investment-related businesses, with 350 employee benefit plans and $12 billion in assets under management.  

We are also seeing greater usage of CEO, our online portal for commercial customers, which is used by two-thirds of our middle market and large corporate customers. Nearly 100% of our CEO customers use the portal daily. The number of active customers using CEO increased 30% from the second quarter of 2005 and log-ins grew 17% from a year ago.  

We have also had great success with our Desktop Deposit service. This service allows businesses to deposit checks using images and data, rather than physically presenting them to the Bank. Because Desktop Deposit service is Internet-based, customers are up and running on the product within minutes of plugging the scanner into their PC and upgrades are effortless. Adoption has been unprecedented. Enrollment and dollars processed through the service jumped about 100% each month. Over 10% of commercial customers who deposit with us use Desktop Deposit, and over $2 billion worth of checks were deposited the last week of June.  

Let me now shift to credit quality. Credit quality was exceptional this quarter, essentially unchanged from the first quarter, with excellent performance across all our loan portfolios. Net charge-offs were down $22 million from the second quarter of 2005 and flat from the first quarter of 2006. We continued to experience very low commercial losses, and consumer losses remained at historically low levels, impacted by continued low bankruptcy filings, low unemployment rates and relatively stable residential real estate values.  

Nonperforming assets increased $68 million from the prior quarter and totaled 64 basis point of total loans. Wholesale nonperformers were very low and reflected the solid financial strength of our borrowers. Consumer nonperforming assets have gradually increased as our loan portfolios grow and season, but remained within expected ranges.  

Residential real estate secured loans represented 38% of our loans outstanding, down from 46% a year ago. For all of our real-estate secured loans, we underwrite to credit quality not collateral. This is important, because history shows that if housing prices moderate or even decline in some markets, as long as the consumer has a job, they will continue to make payments on their homes.  

When we stress test our real-estate secured portfolios for interest rate and home value shocks, we see very manageable differences in projected credit performance. Again, employment is the most important factor. As rising interest rates and slowing growth residential real estate values reduced mortgage refi activity, our residential real estate portfolio will stay on our books longer and may potentially return to foreclosure rates more typical of a seasoned portfolio.  

We have carefully monitored the credit performance of residential real estate booked in 2005 at Wells Fargo Home Mortgage, our home equity group, as well as Wells Fargo Financial. Supported by consistent underwriting policies, delinquency and losses were within expected ranges and mirrored trends from prior vintages.  

Let me update you on some key metrics that I have shared with you in the past with respect to our residential real estate secured loans. At quarter end, we had $50 billion in one- to four-family first mortgages on our balance sheet, representing 10% of total assets, down from 19% a year ago and down from 21% in the second quarter of 2004, reflecting the sales of lower-yielding prime ARMs. Approximately 40% of our one- to four-family first mortgages were originated at Wells Fargo Financial, and 30% were home equity loans that were in the first position.  

At quarter end, 18% of our $76 billion National Home Equity group portfolio was in the first lien position, and approximately 50% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO was 746 and the average combined loan-to-value was 56% based on outstanding balances, and 67% including unused commitments. 46% of the portfolio was fixed rate and 70 to 80% of new production during the quarter was fixed rate.  

Our fastest growing real estate secured portfolio was Wells Fargo Financial's $20 billion in receivables, which were up 25% from a year ago. This growth rate has slowed from recent quarters due to higher rates and slower growth rates in home values. At quarter end, almost 90% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate portfolio was U.S. based and nonrevolving. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 644, up from 640 a year ago, and the average loan-to-value was 73%, improving from 75% a year ago.  

96% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position, and the average loan size was $115,000. Approximately 31% of the portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed-rate debt, and 69% are three-year ARMs. The majority of the ARM products are repaid prior to repricing. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest-only or no-doc loans.  

Another real estate portfolio that has been growing at double-digit rates is our commercial real estate portfolio. We have been in the commercial real estate business continuously for over 30 years, through many cycles, working with customers with proven track records. We continued to maintain our credit discipline while growing our portfolios at double-digit rates. In our commercial real estate groups within Wholesale Banking, the average loan-to-value on total commitments was 68% at quarter end, and most of these loans had significant recourse.  

Let me now shift to balance sheet repositioning and a few other items. As previously mentioned, we had $250 million of pre-tax losses in the second quarter from the sale of our lowest yielding debt securities and on the sale of $26 billion in ARMs. With respect to the ARMs, in mid 2004, we began selling ARMs that were temporarily being held on our balance sheet. The initial ARMs sold were at yields below 4%, which actually looked relatively high given a Fed Funds rate at the time of 1%.  

We sold those ARMs, and ultimately more than $90 billion since 2004, in anticipation of higher short- and intermediate-term interest rates, starting with the lowest-yielding assets each time we progressively made decisions to sell during this two-year period. With the sales in the second quarter of 2006, we completed our program of selling low-yielding ARMs. Since short-term interest rates are now above 5%, the sale of ARMs has already resulted in higher net interest income.  

Typically in each quarter we sold ARMs, the sales added to the Company's consolidated net interest margin, although in this particular quarter, the $26 billion had no impact or negligible impact on the second-quarter net interest margin, since the sales didn't settle until late in the quarter.  

During the last two years, we have also aggressively sold our lowest yielding, longer-term debt securities, taking advantage of dips in market yields in a generally rising rate environment. Of the $250 million in losses taken in the second quarter, $156 million were on debt securities.  

With long-term interest rates at their highest level in over four years and 200 basis points above their cyclical lows, we added a meaningful amount of mortgage-backed securities with yields of around 6.25% to the investment portfolio in the second quarter to support our growth in customer deposits at the retail bank. Retail banking generates far more deposits than it does loans that are kept on the balance sheet.  

While this will add to long-term investment portfolio yield and to net interest income, the incremental securities and high growth in loans actually reduced consolidated net interest margin by the 9 basis points decline in the consolidated margin, which at 4.76%, remains one of the highest margins in the industry.  

With the increase in long-term interest rates during the second quarter, we had $291 million in unrealized losses on debt securities available for sale. But given our securities portfolio repositioning, we continue to have what we believe is one of the highest portfolio yields of any large bank.  

Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains, as it has now done for 12 consecutive quarters, and it had a cost basis of $1.7 billion at quarter end. Absent a reversal in equity values, we would expect additional private equity gains. At quarter end, we had $242 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio. Combined, our securities-held-for-sale portfolio had a net loss of only $49 million at quarter end.  

During the quarter, we bought back 8 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock. 41.8 million shares remain available for repurchase on the Board authority at quarter end, including the additional 25 million shares the Board of Directors authorized for buyback on June 27.  

In addition to the increased buyback, the Board approved an increase in the quarterly cash dividend on Wells Fargo stock to $0.56 per share from $0.52 per share, and declared a two-for-one stock split to stockholders of record on August 4. The combination of these actions reflects the quality, consistency and strength of our operating and financial performance, and the confidence we have in our team members' ability to continue to generate the strong results we reported this quarter. This is the 19th consecutive year we have increased our dividend and the 24th dividend increase since 1987.  

So in conclusion, we achieved another record quarter, with double-digit growth in revenue and earnings per share, and a return on equity of about 20%. But this is nothing new. We have been growing our revenue and earnings per share at an annual compound double-digit rate for the past 20 years. By continuing to focus on satisfying all of our customers' financial needs, we achieved record cross-well of 5 products from Consumer Household and 5.9 products from Wholesale customer.  

Thank you for listening, and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
irreal : Residential Real Estate | i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i85 : Real Estate Transactions | ibnk : Banking/Credit | icre : Construction/Real Estate | ireest : Real Estate
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060801e27i000dx
  


 HD
 Q1  2006 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
4,540 words
   PD
18 April 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2006 earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2006 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our first-quarter, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including the anticipated impact on full-year 2006 earnings from option expensing, the expected continued growth in cash flows from the mortgage servicing portfolio, and the likelihood of additional private equity gains absent a reversal in equity values.  

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results, and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Diluted earnings per share were a record $1.19 a share, up 10% from the first quarter of 2005, and up 18% annualized from the fourth quarter of 2005. First-quarter earnings per share was reduced by $52 million pretax or $00.02 a share since we now have begun to expense stock options as required under FAS 123R. The $00.02 of option expense in the first quarter is $00.01 a share higher than the Company's expected quarterly expense for the remainder of 2006 due to the $33 million immediate expensing of stock options for retirement eligible team members. Including the $0.02 expensed in the first quarter, we now anticipate option expense to reduce full year 2006 earnings per share by $0.05.  

We are extremely pleased with our first-quarter results which reflect a continuation of the same trends we've seen for many quarters, including double-digit earnings per share growth with net income exceeding $2 billion for the first time ever, solid, broadbased and in some cases accelerating revenue growth in many of our businesses, with revenue in businesses other than home mortgage up a combined 17% from a year ago, accelerated to 20% annualized growth rate on a linked quarter basis. A stable net interest margin reflecting our success in growing core deposits, as well as actions we've taken during the past year to sell our low yielding assets in order to increase earning asset yields, including the sale of our lowest yielding arms and bonds in the first quarter of 2006 that resulted in losses of $44 million pretax.  

Exceptionally strong credit quality and a continuation of numerous investments for future growth, including $23 million of incremental technology investments and integration expense, as well as other investments to increase our sales force, store distribution and Internet distribution. While the contribution from mortgage to consolidated earnings declined on a linked quarter and year-over-year basis, growth in our other businesses enabled the Company to continue its consistent double-digit earnings growth. Individual businesses that experienced double-digit growth included regional banking, which had strong growth throughout its geography, credit card, small business through business direct, education financial services, corporate trust, commercial banking, international trade services, insurance, Eastdil Secured, our real estate brokerage business, specialized financial services which includes our capital markets business, and Wells Fargo Financial, our consumer finance business. I will highlight the growth drivers behind many of these businesses during the call.  

Our results were driven by strength in both our consumer and commercial businesses. Let's start with the consumer. Regional banking which includes our retail store network had another record-breaking quarter with 4.6 million core product sales, an 18% increase from the prior year. Our average retail bank household now has a cross sell ratio of 4.9 products per consumer household. We continue to be successful in selling Wells Fargo Packages which include a checking account and at least three other products, such as debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan. Packaged sales were up 46% from the first quarter of 2005, reaching 56% of new checking account customers. We also increased sales efficiency at the same time we were growing our sales force. The number of platform banker FTE's grew by 1788 or 14% from a year ago, while platform banker FTE productivity improved from 5.02 core sales per day to 5.18 core sales per day during the first quarter.  

We continue to successfully sell debit and credit cards to our customers. At quarter end 34% of our retail bank consumer household had a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 31% a year ago. Purchase volume on these cards was up 29% from a year ago, and average balances were up 12%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card, up from 89% a year ago and purchase volume increased by 20% from a year ago.  

Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households contributed to total card fees increasing by 18% from the first quarter of 2005. And this was all organic growth. Average consumer loans increased 6% for the first quarter of 2005. Excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages, the loan category most impacted by the $51 billion in ARMs we sold since the beginning of 2005. Consumer loans continue to grow at a healthy pace, up 21% year-over-year despite the sale of Island Finance's Puerto Rico operations, which included the sale of $636 million of consumer receivables. Average consumer loans grew 14% annualized on a linked quarter basis excluding real estate 1-4 family first mortgages. Reflecting acceleration in business linked quarter consumer loan growth was actually higher than the year-over-year growth rate. If you adjust the year-over-year growth rate for the reclassification in the second quarter of 2005, of $8 billion in student loans from held-for-sale to consumer revolving and installment loans.  

On an annualized linked quarter basis most consumer lending categories grew at double-digit rates, including average home equity loans which grew 12%, credit cards which grew 16% and other revolving credit and installment loans which grew 15%.  

We continue to focus on better serving our small business customers. Sales of store-based business solutions were up 37% from last year. Loans to small businesses, loans less than $100,000 n our business direct platform grew 19% from the prior year. During the first quarter we became the first and only bank in the industry to introduce a new service for our small business customers called "The Business Spending Report," a new web-based financial management tool for small businesses. This free service gives businesses a consolidated overview of their business credit card, business debit card and online bill pay transactions and is updated each business today. This report provides an added convenience to our small business customers by allowing them to monitor and track expenditures anytime, anywhere. This follows the successful launch a year ago of a service called "My Spending Report" which provides online banking customers a convenient way to track spending and payments by automatically organizing purchases from a customer's Wells Fargo checking account, checking card, credit card, checking account and online bill pay by common categories like groceries, utilities and gas.  

Let me now talk about deposits. Average core deposits grew 11% from a year ago and were up $627 million from the fourth quarter of 2005. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $1.6 billion from the first quarter of 2005 and down $2.2 billion from the fourth quarter of 2005. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 9% from the first quarter of 2005 and 5% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Retail core deposits which also exclude escrow balances were up 11% from a year ago and 4% annualized from the fourth quarter. Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.7 billion, or 11% for the first quarter of 2005 and 15% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.2% from a year ago. It was also a modest linked quarter decline in business checking account balances since business customers can maintain lower compensating balances at higher interest rates. The decline may also be the first sign of companies drawing down their cash balances to grow their business, which is consistent with the small-business loan growth we continue to experience. Deposit pricing remains competitive throughout our geography, but the West and in particular California, remains somewhat less competitive than the Midwest and East Coast markets.  

Let me now turn to mortgage. Despite continued increases in short-term interest rates which were accompanied in the first quarter of 2006 by an increase in long-term interest rates, the mortgage business remained quite solid. While refinancing activity has steadily declined since 2003 the purchase mortgage market picked up much of the slack and remained robust in the first quarter. Mortgage applications were $95 billion during the first quarter, up 7% from the prior quarter. 61% of applications were for purchase mortgages as opposed to refis, up from 57% for purchase mortgages in the fourth quarter of 2005. The application pipeline at quarter end was $59 billion, the same as a year ago and up 18% from the end of last quarter. Our continued success in satisfying the mortgage financing needs of consumers across the United States has driven substantial growth in the servicing side of the mortgage business. Our owned servicing portfolio crossed the $1 trillion mark in the first quarter, reaching a record $1.04 trillion at quarter end, up 24% from a year ago and up 21% annualized on a linked quarter basis.  

While this portfolio is accounted for each quarter on a fair value basis, the actual cash flows from the portfolio are substantial and will continue to grow as our portfolio grows. And the customers whose mortgage loans we service represent an important source for sales in our other businesses. Last year mortgage customers accounted for 16% of all new Wells Fargo retail customers. Many of these new mortgage customers have yet to be fully banked. This represents a huge opportunity for us. Our retail bank households who do have a mortgage with us have an average cross sell ratio of 7.6, about three products higher than the average of 4.9 for all retail bank households. The total increase in the value of MSRs during the quarter was $680 million which was offset by roughly an equivalent amount, $706 million of losses on the servicing hedge. Of the $680 million increase in value, $158 million was due to the adoption of fair value accounting which was recorded to shareholder equity and $522 million due to subsequent increases in interest rates which was recorded to income.  

Since the $158 million went straight to shareholder equity and only the $522 million of total increase in fair value went to income, the effect of the interest rates and hedging in the profit and loss statement was therefore a net $184 million loss even though the total increase in fair value roughly equaled the hedge loss. During the first quarter the servicing hedge somewhat underperformed the change in MSR fair value due to the unusual combination of rising rates, flatter yield curve, lower option volatility and spread compression between on the one hand, the basis of our hedges which are linked to mortgage securities, U.S. treasuries and LIBOR, and on the other hand the underlying MSR values which are linked to ARM and fixed rate mortgage loans. The $158 million fair value increase recorded to shareholder equity was not reduced by any securities losses since our available for sale securities used in hedging MSRs did not have any embedded losses at the time of fair value adoption.  

Adopting fair value accounting for MSRs will provide increased transparency in our financial statements as market-driven changes in the fair value of MSRs, as well as the related results of all of the derivatives hedging these MSRs will each be directly reflected and separately identified in servicing income. Instead of recording gross MSRs at cost with an offsetting impairment valuation reserve, the MSR will now be shown at fair value in assets without a valuation reserve. Under MSRs at fair value, the value of the servicing can increase in line with higher interest rates without being capped if cost is below market values. Changes in the value of the servicing asset due to the collection and realization of expected cash flows over time was $477 million in the first quarter. This expense item is comparable to the servicing amortization expense under the prior accounting convention.  

Our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, had record results for the quarter with double-digit revenue and loan growth. The growth drivers include strong underlying business strength and some onetime items. During the first quarter Wells Fargo Financial sold Island Finance's Puerto Rico operations for a $127 million pre-tax gain. The sale included $636 million of receivables in Puerto Rico, about 1% of Financial's total receivables. Financial's growth rate also benefited from lower credit losses during the first quarter. The first quarter of 2005, Financial recorded a $163 million charge for credit losses to conform Wells Fargo Financial's charge-off practices with FFIEC guidelines. As you may recall, this charge was the first step towards bringing our mortgage, home equity and consumer finance businesses on to common systems.  

Wells Fargo Financial's auto receivables grew 21% from the first quarter of 2005. There are two large projects underway at Financial that are contributing to this growth. One is the integration of domestic originating stores. Wells Fargo Financial had 173 auto stores focused primarily on selling only direct auto loans. Financial also had 859 domestic consumer finance stores originating primarily real estate secured loans and some direct auto loans. With the store integration, all 1032 stores will be able to offer a full spectrum of consumer finance loans, including auto and real estate secured, which will better leverage our distribution system. This integration began during the first quarter and will be fully implemented by the end of the second quarter.  

Secondly, in July of 2005 we announced the integration of the Wells Fargo Auto Finance Group and Wells Fargo Financial Acceptance. The integration enables us to serve the full credit spectrum of customers within direct financing for dealers, vehicle leasing financing and direct-to-consumer loan products. Before this integration we were servicing about 4000 dealers with our prime auto loans only; 9000 dealers with our nonprime auto loans only, and about 5000 dealers were working with two separate Wells Fargo sales reps, one for prime and one for nonprime. Under the old system the dealer had to decide if the application should go to Wells Fargo Bank for a prime loan or Wells Fargo Financial for a nonprime loan. By combining the businesses we are able to serve over 18,000 dealers with only one sales rep per dealer, providing the full credit spectrum of auto loans. This is much more efficient for us and much more user-friendly for the dealer. We are one of the few indirect auto lenders in the country that can offer dealers the convenience of submitting one application to a central source to service both prime and nonprime customers.  

We are now originating all new auto loans under our bank Wells Fargo Bank N.A. using uniform national credit terms and standards instead of under 50 different state laws, lowering funding costs and making it easier to cross sell additional bank products.  

Let me now shift to commercial banking. In our wholesale and commercial businesses we once again saw a solid commercial loan growth. Our C&I loans have now grown 10 consecutive quarters with double-digit growth in each of the last six quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $11 billion or 12% from the first quarter of 2005, and $2.6 billion or 10% annualized on a linked quarter basis. At quarter end C&I loans accounted for 37% of total loans.  

In our wholesale banking group which serves middle market and large corporate customers average commercial loans grew 13% year-over-year and accelerated to 15% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Wholesale had double-digit loan growth year-over-year and asset base lending, international, real estate and specialized financial services. Our international group within wholesale banking had particularly strong first quarter results with double-digit growth in revenue and profits compared to the first quarter of 2005. There were several key drivers to this outstanding performance, including strong double-digit revenue growth in our foreign exchange division and continued momentum in our sales efforts with foreign central banks, to capitalize on Wells Fargo Bank's AAA rating resulting in the $2.4 billion increase in linked quarter deposits. And the combination of steady growth in the import/export markets and excellent cross sell efforts with the commercial banking group produced double-digit loan growth in our trade Bank.  

Our commercial real estate group had double-digit revenue, loan and earnings growth in the first quarter of 2006 compared to a year ago. The real estate group's growth was geographically diverse and included new business within our footprint, as well as new customers from our continued expansion on the East Coast and in the Midwest. Over the past five years they have opened an average of two offices a year and have opened two new offices this year in Charlotte and Austin. These new markets are beginning to see good growth as these offices continue to expand and mature. In addition, the real estate group continued to substantially increase middle market penetration across all markets.  

Our industry-leading Desktop Deposit, which include -- which allows customers to electronically deposit checks directly from their office is being adopted at record levels. Internet banking continued to grow. At quarter end we had 7.6 million active online consumers representing 58% of consumer checking accounts. We had 3.6 million bill pay customers, up 46% from a year ago, and active online small-business customers increased 22% from a year ago. We also increased Internet sales with consumer product sales up 30%, student loans up 27%, checking accounts up 24%, savings accounts up 23% and credit card sales up 45% from the first quarter of 2005. About two-thirds of our commercial customers are enrolled and actively use the CEO Portal, nearly 100% of these customers log in daily.  

Credit quality. Credit quality was exceptional this quarter with excellent performance across all of our loan portfolios. Net charge-offs were down $270 million from the fourth quarter of 2005, which included $171 million for incremental bankruptcies above normalized levels. After the October 2005 surge, personal bankruptcy levels fell significantly below historic run rates and remain below historical averages in the first quarter of 2006. In view of the acceleration of bankruptcies last year and in view of the new, more stringent bankruptcy filing standards it remains to be seen when or indeed if bankruptcies will return to historical levels.  

Net charge-offs were down $152 million from the first quarter of 2005, which included $163 million related to changes in loss recognition rules at Wells Fargo Financial to conform to FFIEC loss recognition standards. Commercial credit losses continue to be at historic lows and nonperformers declined by $56 million or 11%. We continued a disciplined underwriting approach. The majority of our customers are privately held, middle market firms where there is less intense competitive pressure.  

Nonperforming assets increased $318 million from the prior quarter; 71% or $227 million of this increase was due to a change in regulatory reporting. Effective January 1, 2006 foreclosed real estate securing government national mortgage association or Ginnie Mae loans has been classified as nonperforming for regulatory reporting purposes. These assets are fully collectible because the corresponding Ginnie Mae loans are assured by the FHA or guaranteed by the Department of Veteran Affairs. The remaining increase in nonperforming assets was a natural consequence of continued growth in several of our residential real estate portfolios and auto portfolios. Residential real estate secure loans represent 41% of our loans outstanding, down from 45% a year ago. For all of our real estate secured loans we underwrite to credit quality, not collateral. This is important because history shows that if housing prices moderate or even decline in some markets and as long as the consumer has a job they will continue to make payments on their homes. When we stress test our real estate secured portfolios for interest rate and home value shocks, we see very manageable differences in projected credit performance. Again unemployment is the most important factor.  

We have also been very disciplined in our product offerings, willing to give up market share if we don't feel comfortable with certain products. We did not offer option ARM mortgages or nonprime interest only or no doc mortgages. Let me update you on some key metrics that I have shared with you in the past with respect to our residential real estate secured loans. At quarter end approximately 20% of our $73 billion National Home Equity Group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 50% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO score was 744, and the average combined LTV was 55% based on outstanding balances, down from 57% a year ago. And 66% including unused commitments, down from 68% a year ago. 40% of the portfolio was fixed rate but 70% to 80% of new production during the quarter was fixed rate. Our fastest-growing real estate secured portfolio was Wells Fargo Financial's $20 billion in receivables, which was up 35% from a year ago. This growth rate has slowed from recent quarters due to higher rates and slower growth rates in home values. Almost 90% of the real estate portfolio is U.S.-based and non revolving.  

The average FIFO score in this portfolio was 643, up from 637 a year ago, and the average loan to value was 73% improving from 76% a year ago. 96% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position, and the average loan size was $116,000. Approximately 29% of the portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed rate debt, and 71% are three-year ARMs. The majority of the ARM products are repaid prior to repricing. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest only or no doc loans. At quarter end we had $66 billion in 1-4 family first mortgages on our balance sheet, representing 13% of total assets down from 18% a year ago and down from 23% in the first quarter of 2004. Approximately 30% of this was originated at Wells Fargo Financial, and 20% were home equity loans that were in the first lien position. Of the remaining portfolio the vast majority were prime loans, which had an average FICO of 738. The average loan to value at time of origination was about 72%, and all loans with an LTV greater than 80% had mortgage insurance. Virtually this entire portfolio was five, seven or ten-year ARMs. Wells Fargo does not offer option ARMs.  

During the quarter we bought back 10.3 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock, 24.9 million shares remained available for repurchase under Board authority at quarter end. Despite the further increase in long-term interest rates during the first quarter, we had $269 million in unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale. And given our securities portfolio repositioning we continue to have what we believe is one of the highest portfolio yields of any large bank. Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains as it now has done for 11 consecutive quarters and had a cost basis of $1.6 billion. Absent a reversal in equity values, we would expect additional private equity gains. At quarter end we had $319 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio. The Company continued to expand its funding sources in the first quarter including an inaugural Euro debt issue. Given our financial strength, consisting growth and the only bank with a AAA credit rating, global invested demand for our debt securities remained strong allowing us to diversify our funding and access low-cost market funding opportunities.  

So in conclusion, we achieved another record quarter with double-digit growth in earnings per share and net income with virtually every business seeing an acceleration in sales and revenue on a linked quarter basis. Thank you for listening, and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
Voxant, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060502e24i000gp
  


 HD
 Q4  2005 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
4,684 words
   PD
17 January 2006
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: (Call in progress) -- to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter 2005 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our fourth quarter, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about the expected impact of charge-offs of conforming Wells Fargo Financial's charge-off practices to FFIEC standards, the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 earnings per share, expected trends in credit quality and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses.  

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our 2005 results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents. Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Once again, Wells Fargo achieved its long-term goal of double-digit revenue growth and double-digit earnings per share growth for the year with record EPS of $4.50 and record revenue of $33 billion. In the fourth quarter, EPS was up 10% from the prior year, even after we incurred $171 million in incremental charge-offs related to the October 17, 2005 change in bankruptcy law. We had positive operating leverage for the year and quarter while we continued to invest in our businesses. And while the yield curve continued to flatten throughout the year, our net interest margin has been relatively stable and remained in the highest margin among large bank holding companies.  

The strength of our results reflects the diversity of our business model. While mortgage earnings declined from the fourth quarter of 2004, most of our other businesses experienced double-digit earnings growth, including regional banking, commercial banking, corporate banking, private client services, corporate trust, our home equity and personal credit businesses, asset management, asset-based lending, student lending, commercial real estate and international trade services. I will highlight the growth drivers behind many of these businesses during the call.  

Our results were driven by continued strength in both our consumer and commercial businesses. Let's start with the consumer. Community Banking's exceptional results were driven by Regional Banking, our retail store network, which had a phenomenal year and closed the year on continued strength. Core product sales in Regional Banking increased 15% from a year ago to a record 16 million products in 2005. Our average retail bank household now has a cross-sell ratio of 4.8 products per customer, up from 4.6 a year ago. We continued to be successful in selling Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and at least three other products, which is a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan. Package sales were up 37% in 2005 with package penetration of our new checking account base reaching 46%.  

Another reason for our success in Regional Banking is that our team members are more engaged. Engaged team members are loyal, productive and committed to helping their customers succeed financially. One way to measure engagement is by comparing the number of engaged to actively disengaged team members. We now have an engaged to actively disengaged ratio of 5.8 to 1; up from 4.1 to 1 in 2004. Having more engaged team members results in better customer service, lower attrition and improved loyalty. Household attrition improved 7% from 2003 and attrition of our high-value households improved 17% in 2003. Our improved customer service is also reflected in stronger customer loyalty. Wells Fargo Regional Banking surveys indicate that the percentage of customers who are loyal increased 12% from December 2003 to December 2005. Loyal customers are those who express strong agreement with the likelihood to recommend Wells Fargo to a friend, to continue to do business with Wells Fargo and who have a high overall level of satisfaction with Wells Fargo.  

One of the key consequences of higher team member engagement and higher customer loyalty is that our customers buy more products from us and we retain more of their business. We continue to successfully sell debit and credit cards to our customers. At year end, 33% of our retail bank consumer households had a Wells Fargo credit card; up from 31% at year end 2004. Purchase volume on these cards was up 19% from a year ago and average balances were up 12%. 91% of our consumer checking account customers had a debit card; up from 88% at year end 2004 and purchase volume increased by 20% from a year ago. This increased penetration of our customer base moves us closer to our stated goal of having a Wells Fargo card in every Wells Fargo wallet. Important because cards have surpassed checks and cash for in-store purchases and because using a Wells Fargo credit or debit card increases our share of mind among our customers.  

We are increasing usage in part by introducing reward programs for both our credit and debit card customers. Growth in sales and usage by our Retail Banking households contributed to total card fees increasing by 23% from the fourth quarter of 2004. All of this was organic growth. Private client services, or PCS, grew both revenue and earnings at double-digit rates in the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2004. PCS added approximately 150 net new bankers during 2005 for a total of more than 720 private bankers, a 20% increase in producers in the affluent and wealth market.  

By partnering with other business groups within Wells Fargo, PCS grew average core deposits by 27% in the fourth quarter of 2004 and average loans by 5% and if you exclude real estate one to four family first mortgages, the loan category impacted by our ARM sales throughout the year, average loans grew by 12%. Brokerage assets under administration also improved in the face of a relatively flat equity market and assets up 15% from the fourth quarter of 2004.  

For our mass market segment, the licensed banker program increased the number of licensed bankers by 35% during the year. Without doing an acquisition, we now have 1350 licensed bankers offering investments and traditional banking products. Our licensed bankers are also more productive. At the beginning of the year, licensed bankers sold only 9% of all new accounts on their own as opposed to referring the customer to a financial consultant. At year end, licensed bankers were selling 49% of new accounts themselves.  

The progress PCS made during the year was recognized by outside experts. PCS was ranked number one in security and privacy rankings in 2005 by Watchfire GomezPro, number two among full-service brokerage online providers in 2005 by Watchfire GomezPro and number 11 among top wealth managers in 2005 by Barron's. During the fourth quarter, Wells Fargo was recognized as the nation's leading lender to small businesses for the third consecutive year, funding $13.6 billion in loans under $100,000. 15% of all loans under $100,000 loaned to small-business owners nationwide in 2004 are from Wells Fargo according to reports compiled under the Community Reinvestment Act. We ranked number one in small business loans in 19 of our 23 banking states; up from 16 states in 2003.  

Small business loans originated through our business direct platform grew 20% compared with the fourth quarter of last year. Quarterly sales for small businesses for our retail stores increased 29% from a year ago and same store small business sales were up 24%. Average consumer loans increased 6% from the fourth quarter of 2004. Excluding real estate one to four family mortgages, again the loan category impacted by ARM sales during the year, consumer loans continue to grow at a healthy pace; up 22% year-over-year. Average consumer loans grew 15% annualized on a linked quarter basis. First mortgage, home equity, credit card and other revolving credit and installment loans grew at double-digit annualized rates on a linked quarter basis.  

Average core deposits grew 10% from a year ago and 10% annualized from the third quarter. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up 3.2 billion from the fourth quarter of 2004 and down 1.3 billion from the third quarter of 2005. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 9% from the fourth quarter of 2004 and 13% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Retail core deposits, which also exclude escrow balances, were up 11% from a year ago and 11% annualized from the third quarter. Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.7 billion or 11% from the fourth quarter of 2004 and consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.3% from a year ago.  

We were able to achieve these strong deposit growth rates while maintaining our historical deposit pricing discipline. The industry in general lagged deposit rate increases in response to the Fed funds increases to a greater degree in the fourth quarter than in the prior two quarters. As a consequence, we saw somewhat less pricing pressure from our competition from a competitive standpoint.  

Our most competitive markets during the quarter were the Midwest and Texas. Our deposit growth and share increase reflect the attractiveness of our markets, the convenience, service and security we provide to our deposit customers and our long-standing ability to attract and retain consumer and business customers.  

Mortgage originations grew 23% in 2005 and we ended the year with an unclosed application pipeline of $50 billion; down from the peak of $73 billion in the second quarter of 2005, but still a solid level. Our owned servicing portfolio ended the year at a record $989 billion. In other words, almost $1 trillion in servicing; up 23% from the start of 2005.  

During the quarter as interest rates continued to rise, we increased the level of our servicing hedge coverage in response to market conditions and our overall hedging strategy. This increase in hedge coverage somewhat limited our reversal of servicing asset impairment to $55 million during the quarter compared with $356 million last quarter and $234 million in the fourth quarter of 2004. While the mortgage company historically had hedged its servicing assets with highly liquid derivative contracts, in the fourth quarter, it began using on balance sheet securities to expand the tools available for its hedging.  

Of the $124 million in total bond losses recorded by the consolidated company in the fourth quarter, $58 million were attributable to the mortgage servicing hedge program. Mortgage activity decelerated in the fourth quarter, but we're still at a solid level reflecting our strength in a purchase mortgage market and our continued industry leadership in retail mortgage originations.  

Applications were $89 billion in the fourth quarter compared with $116 billion in the third quarter and $80 billion a year ago. Total originations in the fourth quarter were $113 billion versus $103 billion in the third quarter and $69 billion a year ago. Third party originations increased this quarter as a result of growing marketshare and focusing resources this past year to better penetrate the co-issuance correspondent market, which we believe is a good channel for economically increasing our servicing asset and customer base.  

The decline in mortgage applications in the fourth quarter was anticipated and consequently, its impact on mortgage profitability was mitigated by reducing expenses, which were down 13% annualized linked quarter. As we have said in the past, our diverse business model allows us to grow consolidated earnings in different economic and interest rate environments. And even with the decline in mortgage activity and profitability in the fourth quarter, we were still able to generate 10% consolidated EPS and revenue growth with our other businesses picked up any slack.  

We now shift to our commercial businesses. In our wholesale and commercial businesses, we once again saw solid commercial loan growth. Our C&I loans have now grown nine consecutive quarters with double-digit growth in each of the last five quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $12 billion or 13% from the fourth quarter of 2004 and $2.5 billion or 10% annualized on a linked quarter basis. At quarter end, C&I loans accounted for 35% of total loans.  

Now our wholesale banking group, which serves middle market and large corporate customers, average commercial loans grew 15% year-over-year and 9% annualized linked quarter. Wholesale had double-digit loan growth year-over-year in asset-based lending, international, real estate and specialized financial services. We measure the profitability of our commercial customers on a relationship basis, which gives us an advantage when pricing loans. As a result of this focus on cross selling, we were able to both grow commercial loans at a double-digit pace in a highly competitive market as well as grow revenue in the wholesale banking group 11% in 2005.  

Our wholesale customers like our relationship banking model and broad product line and have rewarded us with more of their business. Our wholesale customers now have an average of 5.7 products with us and our middle market customers have close to 7 products. An independent survey indicates that we now have the leading marketshare among middle market customers in the western United States. With the addition of seven commercial banking offices this year primarily outside of our banking footprint, we now can serve our commercial customers coast-to-coast.  

Our international group within wholesale banking had particularly strong fourth-quarter results with double-digit growth in revenue and profits compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. Foreign exchange revenues were up as a result of the expansion of our international teller initiative within Community Banking, which included opening 73 new international teller sites in our banking stores this year. Revenue from international treasury management, which provides services in over 40 countries, was up as we continued to capture customers requiring cross-border solutions to their cash management needs.  

Trade-related loan balances grew 16% in the fourth quarter compared with the fourth quarter of 2004. Also we continued to have success with the targeted initiative to gather deposits from foreign central banks, these deposits growing 48% on a linked quarter basis. This growth was directly attributable to our focused sales effort to call on new corporate and institutional customers that began after Wells Fargo was upgraded to AAA by Moody's, the only bank in the United States with the highest possible credit rating.  

Our commercial real estate group had double-digit revenue, loan and earnings growth in 2005. They booked record new loan commitments during the year, up 27%. The real estate group's growth was primarily driven by the continued geographic expansion on the East Coast and in the Midwest. Over the past five years, they have opened an average of two offices a year in these new markets and they are beginning to see good growth as these offices mature. In addition, the real estate group continues to substantially increase middle market penetration across all markets.  

Internet banking continues to grow. At year end, we had over 7 million active online customers serving 56% of consumer checking accounts. We had 3 million Bill Pay customers, up 41% from a year ago and active online small business customers increased 25% from a year ago. We also increased Internet sales with consumer product sales up 22%, student loans up 52%, checking accounts up 21% and credit card sales up 17% in 2005. We also continued to be recognized as having the best Internet banking site. Watchfire GomezPro ranked Wells Fargo full-service brokerage the number two online offering nationwide. Wells Fargo received the gold medal in Bill Pay, self-service and online applications for the 2005 Bank Monitor Awards and Keynote Web Excellence ranked Wells Fargo home mortgage number two nationwide on the fourth-quarter mortgage scorecard.  

Let me now discuss credit quality. With the exception of the surge in consumer bankruptcy filings related to the change in bankruptcy law in mid-October 2005, fourth-quarter credit quality results were in line with expectations. Fourth-quarter personal bankruptcy filings increased $171 million above normalized levels. These losses were primarily from Wells Fargo Financial and credit card but it also included losses in business direct and unsecured consumer loans. By year end, bankruptcies were well below normal levels. Without this unprecedented personal bankruptcy impact, fourth-quarter losses would have been consistent with prior periods.  

During the quarter, we continued to gather information on our customers who were affected by Hurricane Katrina. Virtually all impacted customers were under payment moratorium programs until year end 2005 and residential real estate payment moratoriums have been extended an additional 90 days. Since we do not have post Katrina repayment histories on these customers, we took no additional Hurricane Katrina related provision in the fourth quarter.  

In 2005, Wells Fargo Financial adopted the credit guidelines established by the FFIEC in order to conform its credit practices to those of our other consumer credit businesses in Wells Fargo Bank, an important step toward developing an efficient, common platform across our consumer credit businesses. Among other things, the FFIEC guidelines require earlier loss recognition. The initial implementation charge for this change in policy in the first quarter of 2005 was $163 million. As a result of the early recognition of loss, Wells Fargo Financial continued to experience somewhat higher than normal charge-offs and will continue to do so through 2006 before the initial increases in charge-offs, above what they would have been under the old policy, are diminished by greater recoveries.  

Looking out to 2006, we're likely to see credit losses increase in line with loan growth and seasoning at levels in line with pricing expectations. We have also been very disciplined in our credit practices, not offering negative amortizing mortgages, not doing nonprime interest only or no doc mortgages, requiring higher down payments and tightening credit standards in some markets that have experienced unusually high real estate appreciation. We have never been a large player in the syndicated loan market and our commercial real estate group has limited exposure in higher risk real estate markets, like condo conversions, and is focused on diversifying outside of California.  

With the allowance for credit losses at nearly two times annualized credit losses and three times nonperforming assets, we consider our allowance adequate to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio at year end.  

Residential real estate secured loans represented 44% of our loans outstanding; down from 49% a year ago. I want to update you on some key metrics that I have shared with you in the past with respect to these loans. At year end, approximately 20% of our $72 billion national home equity group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 50% of the portfolio in the second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO was 727 and the average combined loan-to-value was 55% based on outstanding balances; down from 59% a year ago and 66%, including unused commitments, down from 70% a year ago. 20% of the portfolio was fixed rate and of the 80% of the portfolio that was adjustable, over 65% have the option to convert to a fixed rate.  

Our fastest-growing real estate secured portfolio was Wells Fargo Financial's $19 billion in receivables; up 39% from a year ago. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 642; up from 637 a year ago. The average loan-to-value was 74%; down from 77% a year ago. 97% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position and the average loan size was $118,000. Approximately 25% of the portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed-rate debt and 75% are three-year ARMs. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest only or no doc loans.  

At quarter end, we had $78 billion in one to four family first mortgages on our balance sheet. Approximately 20% of this was originated at Wells Fargo Financial and 20% were home equity loans that were in the first lien position. Of the remaining portfolio, the vast majority were prime loans, which had an average FICO of 737. The average loan-to-value at time of origination was about 72% and on all loans with an LTV greater than 80% had mortgage insurance. Virtually this entire portfolio was five-, seven- or ten-year ARMs. Wells Fargo does not offer negative amortizing loans, including options ARMs.  

We now shift to expenses. We had positive operating leverage in the fourth quarter and for the year as revenue growth exceeded expense growth; 10% revenue growth versus 8% expense growth. As we have stated in the past, in order to consistently grow over the long term, successful companies must invest in their core businesses and maintain a strong balance sheet. During 2005, we opened 92 banking stores and remodeled approximately 485 banking stores. We also opened seven commercial banking stores, 47 mortgage stores and 20 consumer finance stores. We also increased our distribution network by adding approximately 230 ATMS for a total of more than 6500 Web-enabled ATMs, the largest Web-enabled ATM network in the country, which provides our customers with a consistent, high-quality experience across our 23 state network.  

We also added 8,000 team members this year to better serve our growing customer base. And while this was not a big year for acquisitions, we did incur $56 million in integration expense during the year primarily related to Strong Financial and Regulus, including $13 million of integration costs in the fourth quarter. We also took many actions to maintain a strong balance sheet. In the first quarter of 2005, we recorded a $117 million expense to shorten the estimated lives of certain depreciable assets. During the year, we sold $48 billion of our lowest yielding ARMs at a loss, which helped us maintain our industry-leading margin and in the fourth quarter, we sold $11 billion in debt securities at a loss of $124 million, actions which helped improve our long-term asset yield, our margin and our future earnings given the 13 Fed rate hikes that have already occurred.  

At year end, we had $590 million in unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale. Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains and had a cost basis of $1.5 billion. At quarter end, we had $342 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio. During the quarter, we bought back 13.6 million shares of Wells Fargo common stock. 35.1 million shares remained available for repurchase on the Board authority at year end. In 2005, we paid common stock dividends of $2.00 per share; up from $1.86 per share in 2004 and in the third quarter, we declared an increase in the quarterly dividend rate to $0.52 or $2.08 annualized.  

Our dividends have grown at a compound annual growth rate of 16% since 1989. In 2005, we returned 60% of net income after tax to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase net of new shares issued for benefit plans and options. We have been able to grow loans, buy back shares, increase dividends and maintain strong capital ratios because earnings have been so strong because of the discipline in managing our balance sheet.  

As required under FAS 123R, we began expensing stock options on January 1, 2006. Assuming our February 2006 option grant will vest over a three-year period and the valuation of a number of options equals our February 2005 grant, we anticipate this expense will reduce 2006 earnings per share by approximately $0.06. Our debt securities continue to trade at the lowest spread of any major bank holding company. On November 18, Wells Fargo issued a debut sterling denominated senior five-year bond. As a result of strong demand from investors, the announced size of 300 million sterling grew to 750 million sterling and was priced at levels equivalent to the cost of the U.S. debt issue.  

The issue provided investor diversification without any cost concession to Wells Fargo. This was the first unlisted global benchmark ever to be priced in the sterling market and follows two other extremely successful foreign currency bond offerings, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars, done by Wells Fargo in the second half of 2005.  

In conclusion, we once again realized double-digit, top-line and double-digit bottom-line growth, which was broad based and of high quality during the quarter. However, we have achieved double-digit increases in revenue and earnings per share not just over the past year, but over the past 5, 10, 15 and 20 years. Over the past 20 years, our compound annual growth in revenue has been 12%. Our compound annual growth in diluted earnings per share has been 14%. Our compound annual total stockholder return has been 21% compared with 12% for the S&P 500. We have been able to achieve these results with a strong culture and a consistent vision that has been in place for 20 years. We do it by investing in our businesses, investing in our people, distribution networks and technology. We do it with a conservative, disciplined operating philosophy built on prudent risk reward metrics. We look forward to the following same vision to achieve growth in 2006.  

Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

OPERATOR: Ladies and gentlemen, this concludes today's teleconference. Thank you for your participation.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020060131e21h0002v
  


 HD
 Q3  2005 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
4,390 words
   PD
18 October 2005
   SN
Voxant FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would now like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello. This is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo third quarter 2005 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our third quarter, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.  

   TD
In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about the expected impact of Hurricane Katrina on our loan portfolios, including the principal balance of loans believed to be subject to loss and the expected loss content of these loans; the expected impact of expensing stock options on our 2006 earnings-per-share; expected trends in credit quality and the adequacy of our allowance for credit losses.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, including the difficulty of determining with precision the impact of Hurricane Katrina on our loan portfolios, refer to our SEC filing, including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our third quarter results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC and to the information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. In the third quarter, we once again achieved double-digit revenue and double-digit earnings growth. Earnings per share grew 14% to a record $1.16 a share. We have achieved double-digit EPS growth in all but one of the last 13 quarters and our compound annual growth rate over that 13-quarter period has been 11%. Our earnings-per-share growth was once again driven by solid record-breaking double-digit growth in revenue which was up 16% from last year.  

We have always maintained that our focus on earning all of our customers' business by cross-selling our broad set of product and services provides us with both the diversification and the opportunity to consistently grow the Company's bottom line. Third quarter results demonstrated the value of our approach. Our 14% earnings growth in the quarter was broad-based with virtually every consumer and commercial business line achieving double-digit profit growth, including regional banking, middle-market corporate banking, commercial real estate and asset-based landing, small-business lending, home mortgage, student lending, asset management and international services.  

Both net interest income and non-interest income grew solidly during the quarter and many of our fee-based products had double-digit revenue growth.  

In order to consistently grow over the long-term, successful companies need to invest in their core businesses and take action to maintain strong balance sheets. Actions taken by Wells Fargo in the third quarter included $33 million in losses not including foregone net interest income related to the sale of an additional $24 billion of our lowest yielding adjustable-rate mortgages; a $31 million realized loss on the sale of debt securities, including the sale of our lowest yielding, longer-term, fixed income securities; $100 million provision in access of charge-offs in order to allow for our current assessment of the effect of Hurricane Katrina; $41 million of aircraft lease write-downs for airlines that filed for bankruptcy during the quarter; a $25 million expense for the early adoption of Accounting Standard FIN 47 which relates to the recognition of obligations associated with the retirement of long-lived assets, such as building and leasehold improvements; and $14 million in expenses for the integration of the strong financial and our Texas Bank acquisitions.  

In addition, we continued to make investments in growing our sales force and improving distribution and customer service during the quarter, including adding 1031 retail bankers, up 9% from one year ago; opening 21 new banking stores, 16 new consumer finance stores and remodeling approximately 100 banking stores. During the last six quarters, we have sold over $60 billion of our lowest-yielding ARMs at an average yield of 4.22%, including $24 billion in ARMs sales in the third quarter to reposition our balance sheet in anticipation of higher short-term rates and a flatter yield curve.  

In each of the last six quarters, the sales in that quarter reduced net interest income and generated losses in that quarter. Over the last six quarters, the realized losses alone amounted to approximately $350 million cumulatively, including $33 million realized in the third quarter of 2005. Taken during a period in which there were 11 consecutive quarter point increases in short-term rates by the Fed, the sale of our lowest-yielding ARMs and periodic replacement of higher yields has enabled us to boost the average yield on our real estate one-to-four family first mortgage portfolio from 5.19% in the second quarter of 2004 on an average balance of $89 billion to 6.6% in the third quarter of 2005 on an average balance of $72 billion.  

With current ARM yields in the 5.25 to 5.50% range, we have begun holding newly originated ARMs at yields that are more than 1% higher in yield than the yield on the $60 billion of ARM sales. It goes without saying that we were able to absorb the losses incurred with selling our lowest-yielding ARMs during the last year and still generate double-digit earnings-per-share growth because our core earnings have been so strong.  

Excluding real estate one-to-four family first mortgages, the loan category that includes the discretionary ARMs, average asset growth would have been 14% year-over-year and 23% in annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Average loan growth would have been 20% year-over-year and 13% annualized linked-quarter and average consumer loan growth would have been 26% year-over-year and 12% annualized linked-quarter.  

Let's talk about our business growth. Our quarterly results were driven by strength in both our consumer and our commercial businesses. Let's start with the consumer. Core product sales in regional banking increased 13% from a year ago to a record 4.3 million products. Our average retail bank household has a cross-sell ratio of 4.8, up from 4.5 a year ago. We continued to be successful in selling Wells Fargo packages, which include a checking account and three other products, such as a debit card, credit card, savings account or home equity loan.  

Packaged sales were up 22% from a year ago with package penetration of our new household base reaching 46% versus 38% a year ago.  

We have also been very successful in selling debit and credit cards to our customers. Currently, 32% of our retail bank consumer households have a Wells Fargo credit card. Purchase volume on these cards was up 20% from a year ago and average balances were up 13%. 90% of our consumer checking account customers have a debit card and purchase volume has increased by 24% from a year ago. Growth in sales and usage by our retail banking households has contributed to total card fees increasing by 18% from the third quarter of 2004. This was all organic growth.  

Our retail bankers continued to listen to our customers, asking them the right questions and offering product and services of real value. By selling the right products, the profitability of our retail banking households increased 26% from a year ago.  

Small business continued to be a focus and key driver of growth in retail banking. We define as small-business as having annual revenues less than $2 million. These customers are served through our banking stores. Quarterly sales to small businesses through our retail stores increased 24% from a year ago.  

Average consumer loans increased 4% from the third quarter of 2004. Excluding real estate one-to-four family first mortgages, consumer loans continued to grow at a healthy pace of 26% year-over-year and 12% linked-quarter annualized. This was a slightly slower growth rate than we have had during the exceptional strong refi and home equity markets of last year, but this is still very good growth and importantly, it has become more diversified across loan product types. On a linked-quarter basis, average credit card balances grew 22% annualized and installment loans grew 9% annualized.  

The national home equity group portfolio increased 9% from a year ago year-ago and was essentially flat linked-quarter in large part due to the impact of customer refi activity from home equity into new first mortgages. Average core deposits grew 10% for a year ago and 15% annualized from the second quarter. Average mortgage escrow deposits were up $5.4 billion from the third quarter of 2004 and up $2.9 billion from the second quarter of 2005. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, total average core deposits grew 8% from the third quarter of 2004, increasing to 11% annualized on a linked-quarter basis. Retail core deposits, which also exclude escrow balances, were up 10% from a year ago, accelerating to 13% annualized growth rate from the second quarter.  

Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.8 billion, or 12% from the third quarter of 2004. The number of consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.6% from a year ago.  

In an increasingly competitive market, these are excellent deposit balances and deposit account growth rates which we believe are exceptional compared with the competition. According to independent research, Wells Fargo is one of the very few large banks that has gained national deposit market share. Our deposit growth and share increase reflect the attractiveness of our markets, the convenience, service ad security we provide to our deposit customers and our long-standing ability to attract and retain consumer and business customers and their deposits.  

Let me now turn to our mortgage business. Our mortgage company had another solid quarter. The application surge we had in the second quarter as a result of declining rates at that time resulted in increased fundings in the third quarter. Mortgage originations remained relatively strong in the third quarter, increasing 51% from the third quarter of 2004 and 21% from the second quarter of 2005. The average mortgage warehouse balance was $47.5 billion in the third quarter, up $13 billion or 37% from the second quarter and up $12.6 billion or 36% from the third quarter of 2004.  

The increase in rates during the third quarter only had a modest impact on applications during the quarter which were still $116 billion, down 1 billion from the strong second quarter level. The unclosed mortgage pipeline was $66 billion at quarter end, down from $73 billion at the end of the second quarter but up $11 billion, or 20%, from the third quarter of 2004. Mortgage volume may be benefiting from the flattening yield curve as consumers shift from home equity lines to adjustable-rate mortgages and fixed-rate mortgages.  

The high volume we experienced was particularly impressive since we do not even offer some of the higher-risk mortgage products, such as negative amortizing loans, to any of our customers nor do we offer interest-only loans or no-doc (ph) loans to our non-prime customers. Our owned servicing portfolio increased 26% annualized from the second quarter to $930 billion at quarter end. With rates up, durations increased and we released $356 billion of reserves, leaving a valuation allowance of $1.24 billion at quarter end. Mortgage expenses increased approximately $200 million from the third quarter of 2004 and $160 million from the second quarter of 2005, reflecting higher production and application processing costs, which are primarily variable costs.  

In our wholesale and commercial businesses, we once again saw solid commercial loan growth. Our C&I loans have now grown eight consecutive quarters with double-digit growth in each of the last four quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $13 billion, or 14% from the third quarter of 2004 and $3.3 billion, or 13% annualized, on a linked-quarter basis and at quarter end, accounted for 36% of total loans, up from 34% a year ago.  

In our Wholesale Banking Group, which serves middle-market and large corporate customers, average commercial loans grew 18% year-over-year and 13% annualized linked-quarter. Wholesale had double-digit loan growth year-over-year in asset-based lending, middle market lending, international, real estate and specialized financial services. The double-digit growth in commercial loans reflected our success in building new relationships which more than offset some expected paydowns in the quarter on loans to borrowers where we did not have a strong relationship.  

We measure the profitability of our commercial customers on a relationship basis and we will not extend credit if it doesn't make sense for us in the overall relationship. As a result of the focus on cross-selling, we've been able to grow both commercial loans at a double-digit base in a highly competitive market as well as grow commercial fee income in our wholesale banking group 22% year-over-year.  

Our International Group within Wholesale Banking had particularly strong results with double-digit linked-quarter annualized growth in revenue and profits. Foreign exchange revenues were up as a result of the expansion of our international teller initiative within Community Banking, which included opening 74 new international teller sites in our banking stores this year. Internationally Treasury Management revenue was up as we continued to capture customers requiring cross-border solutions to their cash management needs. An international targeted initiative to gather deposits from foreign central banks gained traction in the third quarter with these deposits growing 70%. This growth was directly attributable to our focused sales effort to call on central banks that began last year after Wells Fargo Bank was upgraded to Triple-A, the only Triple-A Bank in the United States.  

Internet banking continues to grow. We now have over 7 million active online customers. More than half of our consumer checking account customers do their banking online with us. We have 3 million bill pay customers, up 43% from a year ago and active online small business customers increased 26% from a year ago.  

We also continued to be recognized as having the best Internet banking site. Watchfire GomezPro ranked Wells Fargo number one in consumer online banking and Global Finance ranked Wells Fargo the best consumer website design and the best integrated consumer bank site. Global Finance also ranked Wells Fargo the best corporate institutional Internet Bank in the United States for 2005.  

Let me now talk about credit quality. With the exception of Hurricane Katrina, third-quarter credit quality results were in line with expectations. Third-quarter losses were 0.73% of average loans outstanding compared with 0.62% in the second quarter of 2005 and 0.59% a year ago. The increased losses during the third quarter were driven by three principal factors. One factor was increased consumer bankruptcy filings in advance of the October 17 implementation date of the new consumer bankruptcy law, which represents the largest overhaul in bankruptcy law in 25 years. Consumer bankruptcy filings could remain temporarily high in the fourth quarter but there should be a moderation in bankruptcy filings thereafter.  

Second, the return to modest commercial losses after a net recovery in wholesale banking in the second quarter also resulted in some additional losses. Most of our commercial loan recoveries are behind us and they were already down 11% from the first nine months this year versus the first nine months last year. However, we do not expect a new round of commercial charge-offs and apart from second quarter recoveries, commercial loan losses in the third quarter were the same as in the second quarter, totaling $104 million in each quarter.  

Continued loan growth and seasoning at Wells Fargo Financial, which has performed consistently with our risk-based pricing model, also resulted in increased losses. We would expect to see a reduced rate of increase in consumer finance charge-offs due to the adoption of the FFIAC method at Wells Fargo Financial earlier this year. It's also important to remember that the seasoning we have been seeing at Wells Fargo Financial has been consistent with our risk-based pricing models.  

Net-net, we are likely to see losses emerge in line with growth and at levels in line with pricing expectations. We have also been very disciplined in our credit practices, not offering negative amortizing mortgages, not doing non-prime interest-only mortgages, requiring higher down payments and tightening credit standards in some markets that have experienced unusually high real estate appreciation. We've never been a large player in the syndicated loan market and our commercial real estate group has limited exposure in higher risk real estate markets like condo conversions and has been focused on diversifying outside of California.  

The impact of Hurricane Katrina will primarily be on consumer loans which totaled approximately $2 billion in loan outstandings in the FEMA designated impacted areas. We believe the principal balance of loans subject to potential loss from Katrina-related damage is less than $500 million based on analysis to date of the existence of insurance coverage, type of loan, location and potential damage to collateral. Based on further analysis of the loss content of the $500 million of loans, we believe it is prudent to provide an additional $100 million related to this event to the allowance for credit losses. Many of the loans are the borrowers who are repayment prospects have not yet been determined to be diminished or are in areas where the properties may have suffered little if any damage or may not have even been inspected. We will continue to refine our estimates as more information becomes available.  

With the allowance for credit losses at nearly two times annualized credit losses and nearly three times non-performing assets, we consider our allowance adequate to cover losses inherent in our loan portfolio.  

Residential real estate secured loans represent 44% of our loans outstanding, down from 49% a year ago. I would like to update you on some key credit metrics that I have shared with you in the past with respect to these loans. As of September 30, approximately 25% of our $71 billion National Home Equity Group portfolio was in the first lien position and approximately 40% of the portfolio in a second lien position was behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage. The average FICO score was 726 and the average combined loan to value was 57% based on outstanding balances, down from 59% a year ago and 68% including unused commitments, down from 69% a year ago. 20% of the portfolio was fixed rate and of the 80% of the portfolio that was adjustable, over 60% have the option to convert to fixed rate.  

Our fastest-growing real estate secured portfolio was Wells Fargo Financial's $18 billion in receivables, which was up 41% from a year ago. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 642, up from 637 a year ago, and the average loan to value was 74%, down from 77% a year ago. 95% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position and the average loan size was $114,000. Approximately 20% of the portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed-rate debt and 80% on three-year ARMs. Wells Fargo Financial does not offer interest-only loans or no-doc loans.  

At quarter end, we had $69 billion in one-to-four family first mortgages on our balance sheet. Approximately 20% of this was originated at Wells Fargo Financial and approximately 25% were home equity loans that are in a first-lien position. Of the remaining portfolio, the vast majority were Prime loans which had an average FICO of 733. The average loan to value at time of origination was about 75% and all loans with a loan to value greater than 80% have mortgage insurance. Virtually all of this portfolio is five-year ARMs. Again, Wells Fargo does not offer negative amortizing loans, including option ARMs.  

Let me talk about our financial strength. We have always focused on maintaining a strong balance sheet. In the third quarter, we took a number of actions to further strengthen the balance sheet. The $100 million in provision and excess of charge-offs in order to allow for the current assessment of the effect of Katrina left our allowance at what we believe was a healthy level. Despite the 50 basis point backup in short-term and long-term rates during the quarter, we had $637 million in unrealized gains on debt securities available for sale at quarter end. We are one of the few large banks with unrealized gains because we refrain from buying securities in lower rate periods and in fact have been selling our lowest yielding longer-term securities.  

During the last six quarters, we realized $96 million in gross losses on our bond portfolio with a result that our 6.3% yield in the third quarter was one of the highest in the industry. Our private equity portfolio continued to generate gains and had a cost basis of $1.5 billion. This represented less than 4% of capital, the lowest level in over five years.  

At quarter end, we had $264 million of unrealized gains in our public equity portfolio. At 1.31% of loans serviced for others, we believe our $10.7 billion mortgage service right assets was conservatively valued. Our $930 billion in servicing portfolio had a weighted average note rate of only 5.71% versus the current 30-year fixed rate of over 6%, the highest since March. During the quarter, we accelerated our share repurchase, buying back 16.3 million shares of Wells Fargo stock with 23.8 million shares remaining available for repurchase under board authority at quarter end.  

We also announced an increase in our quarterly common stock dividend to $0.52 per share from $0.48 per share, and this marked the 18th consecutive year we have increased our dividend and it was our 23rd increase since 1988. During the last 12 months, we have returned 56% of net income after tax to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase net of new shares issued.  

We have been able to grow loans, buy back shares, increase dividends and maintain strong capital ratios because our earnings have been so strong and because of our discipline in managing the balance sheet.  

Although we continue to believe that stock options do not impact net income but only diluted earnings per share, we will expense stock options and reduced net income as required beginning January 1, 2006. Assuming our 2006 option grant will vest over a three-year period and the valuation and number of options equal our February 2005 grant, we anticipate this expense to reduce 2006 earnings per share by approximately $0.06.  

I also wanted to mention that we are pleased with the recent Federal District Court ruling confirming the OCC's exclusive supervisory role over national banks with respect to residential lending practices. As we have stated, we're confident in the quality of our lending practices and procedures and proud of our track record. Wells Fargo prices for risk, not race and markets to individuals, not neighborhoods.  

In conclusion, we once again realized double-digit top line and double-digit bottom-line growth which was broad-based and of very high-quality. The vision and values that have driven our business strategy and growth for nearly two decades were recently recognized by Barron's Magazine which ranked Wells Fargo the world's most respected financial services company and the 18th most respected company among the world's 100 largest public companies in stock value. The rankings were based on a survey of a number of factors, including management, business strategy, competitive edge, consistent sales and profit growth, ethical business practices and product innovation.  

Thank you for listening and if have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[Thomson Financial reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES THOMSON FINANCIAL OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY OR THE APPLICABLE COMPANY ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020051101e1ai000jo
  


 HD
 Q2  2005 Wells  Fargo  & Company Pre-Recorded Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
4,057 words
   PD
19 July 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo second quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR, IR, WELLS FARGO COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo second quarter 2005 earnings review pre-recorded call.  

   TD
Before we talk about our second quarter we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statements and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about the future competitive environment for commercial lending, the future recognition of additional equity gains, the impact on future earnings for the level of mortgage applications in the second quarter, future sales of mortgage loans, future mortgage servicing revenue, future credit quality and losses including the impact on consumer debt from increases in unemployment, and our expected tax rate for the last six months of 2005.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. The forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our second quarter results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now, I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO COMPANY: Thanks, Bob.  

We believe our second quarter results were exceptional, especially given the volatile market environment. Earnings per share grew 12% to a record $1.12 a share.  

We have now had the double-digit earnings per share growth in all but one of the last 12 quarters, and the one quarter that earnings per share growth was below 10%, the year earlier period had been exceptionally strong. Once again our record earnings and double-digit earnings growth were driven by strong revenue growth, coupled with positive operating leverage, and exceptional credit quality.  

For all of our businesses other than Wells Fargo home mortgage, revenue growth was 16%. Revenue in the second quarter of 2004, was reduced by $222 million, due to balance sheet repositioning actions taken in that quarter.  

The year-over-year decline in mortgage revenue was due to normal servicing revaluation, including a $304 million temporary servicing impairment charge, as mortgage rates declined significantly in the second quarter of 2005. In fact, with production volumes remaining strong and the owned mortgage servicing portfolio up 17%, the underlying mortgage business was quite robust in the second quarter.  

Apart from mortgage, revenue and profit growth was strong across the board, with particularly strong double-digit profit growth in regional banking, consumer finance, middle market and corporate lending, asset-based lending, capital markets, corporate trust, international and private equity investing. As we have said in the past, for a very long time, the strength and the consistency of our top line and bottom line results reflect the value of having and successfully executing one of the most diverse business models in financial services.  

Let me talk about some of our drivers. We had strong loan growth with average loans up 11% from the prior year and up 12% annualized on a linked quarter basis, despite the impact of approximately $35 billion in adjustable rate mortgages, and $1 billion in auto loans that were sold starting in 2004 as part of our balance sheet repositioning for higher yields and higher net interest income.  

In our wholesale and commercial businesses we once again saw solid commercial loan growth.  

Our C&I loans has now grown seven consecutive quarters with double-digit growth in each of the last three quarters. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew $11.5 billion or 13% from the second quarter of 2004, and $2.9 billion or 12% annualized on a linked quarter basis.  

In our Wholesale Banking group, which serves middle market and large corporate customers, average commercial loans grew 18% year-over-year and 12% annualized linked quarter. Commercial loan growth has been broad-based across product, industry, and geography.  

The commercial lending market has become increasingly competitive in pricing, structure, and terms, and they remain so if potential business borrowers remain highly liquid. We measure the profitability of our commercial customers on a relationship basis and will not participate in a line if it doesn't make sense for us in the overall relationship.  

We continue to refrain from deals with weak structures, since we are not prepared to compromise future credit quality just to put loans on the books.  

So how are we able to successfully grow our commercial loan business? Wells Fargo has historically grown commercial loans at a higher rate than the competition.  

The fact that we have been a consistent source of credit for many customers over a long period of time and did not pull back when other competitors did, has allowed us to build strong relationships that give us their lending business in times like these.  

Second, we have had just as much success with our cross-sell model in our commercial business as we have had in our consumer business. Cross-sell in wholesale is now has 5.3 products. When you earn more of your customers' business generally, you also tend to get more of their available lending business, specifically.  

Finally, we continue to selectively expand distribution in the wholesale commercial market with additional bankers and stores, including new offices to serve the commercial markets in Atlanta, Cleveland, Hartford, Indianapolis and Tampa.  

Consumer loan growth remains strong with average consumer loans up 9% from the second quarter of 2004, and up 12% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Reported consumer loan growth rates included the sale of approximately 35 billion in lower yielding ARMs and $1 billion in auto loans starting in 2004, and the transfer of about $8.5 billion of student loans held for sale to other revolving credit and installment loans in the first quarter.  

Growth in average consumer loans was driven by a 31% increase in home equity balances, 21% increase in credit card loans, and growth at Wells Fargo Financial, including 45% growth in real estate-secured loans and 35% increase in auto loans.  

The yield on our entire consumer loan portfolio has increased 99 basis points from a year ago from 6.18% to 7.17%, reflecting the fact that most of our consumer loans are adjustable and tied to short-term rates.  

In addition, the repositioning actions we've taken starting in 2004, in which we have now sold virtually all of our ARM loans with yields below 4.5%, has had a big, positive impact on our total portfolio yield. The weighted average coupon of the remaining ARMs on our balance sheet was 5.18% as of June 30, 2005.  

Finally, we continue to add new loan volume at higher rates.  

Average core deposits grew 6% from a year ago and 11% annualized from the first quarter. This growth was driven primarily by retail.  

Average retail core deposits grew 9% from the second quarter of 2004, and 13% annualized from the first quarter of 2005.  

Average consumer checking account balances grew $6.1 billion, or 13% in the second quarter of 2004, and $2.2 billion, or 17% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.6% from a year ago.  

Net interest income increased 7% year-over-year as well as 7% on a linked quarter basis annualized. The strength in net interest income reflects a continuation of solid earning asset growth and an improvement in the net interest margin, already one of the highest margins in the industry.  

Our previously disclosed balance sheet repositioning actions, which were designed to enhance long-term asset yields and to reduce long-term funding costs, have helped increase our net interest margin to 4.89%, up 6 basis points from a year ago, and up 2 basis points from the first quarter of 2005.  

With current ARM coupons around 5.5%, we have now begun to enhance net interest income as new ARMs are booked, although net interest margin could be dampened as new ARMs are added, even at the higher yields, depending on incremental funding mix going forward.  

Excluding mortgage banking, non-interest income increased 14% from the second quarter of 2004 as a result of our continued focus on sales, selling more of what our customers want to buy. Core product sales and regional banking increased 15% from a year ago to a record 3.97 million products, and the profitability of our retail banking households increased with profit up 18% from the second quarter of 2004.  

Our focus on selling Wells Fargo product packages, which include a checking account and three other products, such as a debit card, credit card, savings account, or home equity loan, resulted in packaged sale increases of 31% from a year ago, with pack penetration of our new household base reaching 42%. Our average retail bank household now has a cross-sell of 4.7, up from 4.3 a year ago.  

We've been very successful in selling debit and credit cards to our customers. Currently, 32% of our retail bank consumer households have a Wells Fargo credit card, and purchase volume on these cards was up 21% from a year ago with average balances up 12%.  

Currently 90% of our checking account customers have a debit card and purchase volume has increased by 23%. This increase in sales and usage in our retail banking households has contributed to total card fees increasing by 17% from the second quarter of 2004.  

All of this is organic growth. By selling core products to our customers while continuing to focus on the customer experience, retail household retention improved 5% from a year ago.  

We continue to invest in order to further improve the customer experience and grow our business. A number of retail bankers grew by 1,392 or 12% from a year ago. We have opened 28 new banking stores so far this year and renovated approximately 225 stores.  

This focus on sales and service, while continuing to reinvest in the business, resulted in double-digit year-over-year revenue growth in 19 of our 23 banking states, including all of our fast growing Western states and double-digit earnings growth in 20 of our 23 banking states.  

Small business has also been a focus and key driver of growth. We define small business as having annual revenues of less than $2 million. These customers are served through our banking stores.  

To give you a sense of the huge opportunity of this market, small businesses represent 99% of all employers, account for more than 20 million businesses nationwide that create more than 50% of the U.S. gross domestic product. We are the largest lender in the U.S. to this market.  

Loans to small businesses, primarily loans less than $100,000 grew 17% from a year ago. Quarterly sales to small businesses through our retail stores increased 27% from a year ago, and we had record sales to small business in May, the National Small Business month.  

Trust and investment fees were up 13% from a year ago. While much of this growth is due to the acquisition and successful integration of Strong, we continue to focus on retaining more of our current customers' investment business.  

On June 3rd, we announced new pricing for Wells Trade, our online brokerage offering, which benefits customers who have broad brokerage and banking relationships with Wells Fargo. Wells Fargo now offers customers the opportunity to qualify for some of the lowest commissions in the industry regardless of brokerage assets and number of trades.  

Commission levels are determined by combinations of bank checking and savings deposits, investments, IRAs, loans, credit balances, and 10% of mortgage balances. The offering also cuts commissions for online mutual fund investing, largely neglected by other brokers in their recent commission reductions.  

During the quarter we saw a continuation of strong equity gains, with $201 million in pretax gains from equity investments. About half of the gains we recognized this quarter were from our public equity portfolio and about half were from our private equity portfolio.  

We have a long and successful track record in private equities. We have been in the business since 1961, and the same experienced team has been leading this business for over 15 years.  

Equity investments are a small percentage of our total capital and have produced high returns and add good diversification to our overall securities portfolio.  

In the last ten years we have recorded gains in 31 out of 40 quarters, including gains in each of the last eight quarters. Cumulative equity gains in the last ten years have been $3 billion, and in the last eight quarters have been $867 million.  

Absent a significant market correction, we expect to recognize additional gains in future quarters, although not necessarily the same amount as we realized this quarter. At June 30th, we had $261 million in unrealized gains on our $630 million public equity portfolio, up from $162 million at March 31, 2005.  

At quarter-end our private equity portfolio had a cost basis of $1.5 billion, unrealized gains on our debt securities were $943 million at June 30th, up from $768 million at March 31, 2005.  

Let me now turn to our mortgage business.  

A little over a year ago, some industry observers and some market participants expressed concerns about the potential impact of rising interest rates on the mortgage industry. In fact, in the intervening period, our mortgage business has remained robust despite the actual increase in interest rates through the first quarter of this year, and business has picked up even more in the second quarter.  

During the last four quarters, our mortgage company originated $241 billion in mortgage loans, with $73 billion of loans originated just in the second quarter of 2005 alone. Retail mortgage originations accounted for 49% of Wells Fargo home mortgage originations in the second quarter of 2005, and we remain one of the nation's largest retail mortgage originators.  

We had a total of $85 million in residential real estate originations in the second quarter, including home equity in Wells Fargo Financial. We have also stated in the past that we run a relatively balanced mortgage business, with originations and servicing having relatively complimentary effects, as interest rates impact these two aspects of the business and approximately offsetting ways over time, although not necessarily in the same quarter.  

The second quarter was a good example of how this works. With the Fannie Mae current coupon declining from 5.48% at March 31, 2005 to 5% at June 30th, the servicing portfolio was revalued downward by $474 million, requiring a $304 million increase to the mortgage servicing right valuation allowance.  

But the same drop in mortgage rates produced substantially higher mortgage applications which will benefit future earnings. At June 30, 2005, the mortgage pipeline stood at $73 billion, up 24% from $59 billion at March 31, 2005, and up 28% from a year ago.  

During the second quarter we took $117 billion in mortgage applications, up 29% from last quarter, one of the highest quarters in our history. 42% of applications taken in the second quarter were for refinancing, up from 33% a year ago, and 41% in the first quarter of 2005. 42% of applications were ARMs.  

During the quarter, Wells Fargo home mortgage recorded $304 million in MSR impairment provision expense, which reduced mortgage servicing revenue to increase the mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance, compared with a $585 million valuation allowance release, which increased mortgage servicing revenue in the prior year.  

While the decline in mortgage revenue from the servicing valuation occurred in the second quarter, and while variable expenses increased in the second quarter to process the additional production, the revenue from the surge in applications will be recognized as mortgages are funded and sold, which will naturally occur in the third quarter.  

The owned mortgage servicing portfolio grew 17% from a year ago, and 16% annualized on a linked quarter basis to $874 billion. The MSR was $8.5 billion, the same as a year ago, despite the large increase in servicing, representing 1.12% of loans serviced for others versus 1.37% a year ago, and 1.24% at the end of the first quarter of this year.  

I'm going to spend some time discussing our three main real estate secured portfolios. One to our family first mortgages held on our balance sheet, home equity lines and loans, and Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio.  

Our home equity portfolio, including first and second liens has been one of our fastest growing portfolios. As of June 30th approximately one-quarter of this portfolio was in the first lien position and a third of the portfolio in a second lien position, is behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage.  

The average FICO was 725, and the average combined loan to value was 55% based on outstanding balances, and 67% including unused commitments. 20% of the portfolio was fixed rate, and of 80% of the portfolio that was adjustable, over 60% have the option to convert to a fixed rate.  

With an average loan size of $46,000, the payment impact of a 200 basis point increase in rates would only be $77 pretax a month. A relatively small increase in debt burden for most consumers, even after a relatively large increase in interest rates.  

The annualized loss rates on our junior lien loans for the entire company were only 16 basis points during the second quarter, down from 19 basis points a year ago, and 20 basis points linked quarter.  

Our fastest growing real estate secured portfolio is Wells Fargo Financial's $16.7 billion in receivables, up 45% from a year ago. The average FICO score on this portfolio was 640, and the average loan to value was 80%.  

95% of Wells Fargo Financial's real estate secured portfolio was in the first lien position and the average loan size was $104,000. Approximately 20% of the portfolio was fixed rate and funded with fixed rate debt and 80% are three-year ARMs. We do not offer interest-only loans at Wells Fargo Financial.  

The impact on monthly payments of rising rates was generally not an issue as the vast majority of these loans repay in two to three years.  

At quarter end we had $82 billion in one to four family first mortgages on our balance sheet. Approximately 20% of this was originated at Wells Fargo Financial, and approximately 20% were home equity loans [with a] first lien position.  

Of the remaining portfolio, the vast majority were prime loans which had an average FICO of 733. The average loan to value at time of origination was about 75%, and all loans with an LTV greater than 80% have mortgage insurance. Virtually all of this portfolio was five-year ARMs.  

The loss rate on the entire $82 billion of one to four family first mortgage portfolio loans has been very low with losses of 9 basis points this quarter, down from 16 basis points last quarter. For all of our residential real estate secured loans, we underwrite the borrower, not the collateral, and the properties cover a range of locations and uses.  

We do look at the economic health of major markets. At times we may identify a need and feel it's appropriate to modify our lending guidelines in a specific market relative to loan to values, FICOs and debt-to-income requirements.  

But clearly the most important economic factor that impacts consumer quality is employment. If a consumer has a job, they will continue to make the payment on their home because they need a place to live. We wouldn't expect to see some stress on consumer debt until unemployment reaches at least 6.5 to 7%.  

Loss rates throughout our portfolios continued at or near historical lows, as did non-performing assets. Total net credit losses for the entire Company were .62% of average loans outstanding during the quarter, compared with .59% a year ago. Total non-performing assets were .46% of total loans, compared with .6% a year ago.  

Wholesale banking non-performing assets were at all-time lows, and the slight increase in consumer non-performing assets were expected as our fast growing residential real estate and auto portfolios season.  

Delinquency rates on our consumer portfolios were stable. At June 30, 2005, the allowance for credit losses was $3.94 billion, essentially flat compared with both March 31, 2005 and year-end 2004.  

The allowance provided over two times annualized net credit loss coverage, and covered non-performing assets by almost three times. During the quarter we provided equal to charge-offs and unlike many of our peers, we have not released reserves.  

As a result of our normal focus on tax strategy, our year-to-date tax rate was adjusted from 34% to 33.57% during the quarter. Consequentially, the tax rate for the quarter declined to 33.15%.  

The adjusted year-to-date tax rate of 33.57% reflects our current expectation of the rate for the rest of the year.  

Global demand for our debt securities remained strong. In the second quarter, we raised $6 billion of new term debt, and we completed early in July a $1.5 million offering in Australia, the largest foreign corporate bond deal ever done in that country.  

Our capital ratios continue to increase with our total capital ratio at 12.17% and our leverage ratio at 7.28%, compared with 6.84% a year ago. During the quarter, we bought back 12.5 million shares, with 15.1 million shares remaining open under board authority at quarter end.  

During the last 12 months, we have returned 49% of net income after-tax to shareholders through dividend and share repurchase net of new shares, while at the same time, growing loans by 11%, and maintaining an ROE of just under 20%.  

In conclusion, we once again realized strong top line and double-digit bottom line growth, which was broad-based and of high quality.  

Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfce : FC&E Exclusion Filter | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050802e17j0008f
  


 HD
 Q1  2005 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,808 words
   PD
19 April 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
©oxant Inc. All rights reserved.    

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2005 earnings review prerecorded call.  

   TD
Before we talk about our first quarter, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statements and balance sheet items and other measures that future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about the expected benefits of certain actions taken in the quarter, expected occupancy cost run rates and the continuation of the practice of using strong current results to invest in long-term growth. Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results and to our most recent annual and quarterly reports and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, WELLS FARGO: Thanks, Bob. We started 2005 with continued strong results, including record earnings per share of $1.08 per share, record net income of $1.86 billion and double-digit revenue growth, up 13%. Once again, these outstanding financial results were achieved after taken into account the impact of actions that reduced current results but which we believe will benefit future earnings growth.  

There were three major actions taken during the quarter and a pretax cost totaling $410 million that reduced revenue, increased charge-offs or increased expenses, but which will provide tangible benefits in future periods.  

First in a step toward bringing our mortgage, home equity and consumer finance businesses onto common systems and conforming credit charge-off practices with a more stringent standard of the Federal Financial Institution's Examination Counsel, better known as just FFIEC, our consumer finance company, Wells Fargo Financial, recognized $163 million in credit losses in its portfolios.  

This is a non-cash charge to bring the timing of charge-offs in accordance with the FFIEC standards. For example, even though Wells Fargo Financial is not a bank, it will charge-off real estate secured consumer loans after 120 days delinquency, in line with the FFIEC standard rather than the less stringent 180 day practice in the nonbank consumer finance industry. The accelerated charge-offs generated a $62 million permanent tax benefit.  

Second, we recorded a $117 million expense in the first quarter upon shortening the estimated useful lives of certain depreciable assets, primarily building improvements in line with our existing policy. This expense is primarily reflected in higher occupancy costs in the first quarter. We would expect occupancy costs to decline in the second quarter, although they will remain at a slightly higher than normal run-rate until declining slightly below the historical run-rate beginning in 2006.  

Finally, we realized a $41 million loss on the sale of $1 billion of our lowest yielding auto loans, which had been yielding 3.76% and an $89 million loss on a sale of $17 billion and three to five-year adjustable-rate mortgages, which had book yield of around 4%. We began replacing the $35 billion in total ARMs and auto loans sold during the last year with newly originated ARMs carrying yields approximately 80 to 90 basis points higher than the rates on the loans that were sold. More on this later on this call.  

In addition to these actions, we continued to make investments in new stores, additional salespeople and major technology projects that reduced current earnings but which will benefit the future. As indicated, total revenue grew 13% year-over-year even after the impact of the ARM and auto loan sales. Each of our businesses contributed to this growth.  

In our wholesale and commercial businesses, we saw once again solid commercial loan growth. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans grew 12% from the first quarter of 2004, and loan growth accelerated to 15% annualized on a linked quarter basis in the first quarter of 2005. The sixth consecutive quarter of growth with double-digit annualized linked quarter growth in each of the last two quarters.  

In our wholesale banking group, which includes our middle market and large corporate borrowers, total commercial loans grew 18% year-over-year and 22% on a linked quarter basis. While this market remains very competitive and while average line utilization from existing borrowers has not increased, we have been able to increase outstandings by increasing the number of commercial businesses that now have banking relationships with us and by broadening these relationships with both loan and non-loan products.  

Our commercial credit (ph) ratio is now at 5.3 products, up from 5 a year ago. During the first quarter, we also increased commercial relationships in business by opening up four new middle market commercial banking offices in Boston, Atlanta, Grand Rapids and Nashville.  

We continued to make progress in the small business market. The optimism of small business owners is on the rise according to the Wells Fargo/Gallup Small Business Index, which is up 7 points from the third quarter of 2004 to 106. We are the number one lender to small businesses in loans under $100,000 nationwide, and also the number one lender to small businesses in low and moderate income tracts.  

Our loans to small business grew 17% year-over-year. Our cross-sell ratio for small business and business banking combined increased by 9% year-over-year to 2.7 products. Our small business cross-sell is below what we know from our experience in other segments we're able to achieve, representing a huge untapped opportunity for us.  

Trust and investment fees were up 13% from a year ago. This growth was primarily driven by the acquisition of $29 billion in assets under management from Strong Financial Corporation which closed on December 31, 2004.  

On April 11, we completed the merger of Wells Fargo Funds and certain former Strong Funds, creating a single fund family, Wells Fargo Advantage Funds. The new fund family offers an array of 120 mutual funds with load and no load options including stock, fixed-income, money market, municipal income and asset allocation funds representing more than $100 billion in assets under management.  

In the fourth quarter of last year, we indicated that we would have about $0.02 per share of integration cost during 2005 for Strong and First Community. Because the Strong name change did not take place until April, there was a minimal amount, roughly $8 million in integration expense, realized during the first quarter of 2005 as we postponed fund-related conversion costs such as client welcome kits until after the official name change.  

Excluding Strong, we continued to grow assets under management, increasing mutual fund balances and the number of 401(k) participants in our trust business, although investment fee income growth was moderated somewhat by relatively flat equity markets.  

In our consumer business, we continued to see strong sales, higher sales productivity and improved customer and business retention in the first quarter. The remarkable achievements of our banking team members continued with record core sales of 3.85 million products, up 18% from prior year. Our average retail bank household now has a core sale of 4.6 with 15% of our households having eight or more products on a long-term goal.  

While increasing sales, we also increased the profitability of our regional banking households with average profit up 17% from the first quarter of 2004. We also increased sales efficiency at the same time we were growing our sales force. The number of retail bankers grew 1700 or 16% from a year ago, while banker productivity remains strong at 5.02 core sales per day.  

By improving our service, we are also improving customer retention. Prior retention helped grow net consumer checking accounts 5.5% from the prior year. By continuing to focus on executing our vision, we grew both our top and bottom line with double-digit earnings growth in 15 of our 23 banking states, including California, Nevada and Arizona. We had double-digit revenue growth in 20 of our 23 banking states, including all of our fast-growing Western states.  

Average consumer loans in our community banking group were up 7% from the first quarter of last year, excluding one to four family mortgage loans which are down because of the ARM sales over the past year. Average consumer loans in our community banking group were up 25%. There was also strong consumer loan growth at Wells Fargo Financial with consumer loans up 44% from the first quarter of 2004.  

Wells Fargo Financial's loan growth was driven by 57% growth in real estate secured loans and a 42% increase in auto loans. While the percentage growth in consumer loans has declined somewhat on a linked quarter basis, excluding one to four family mortgages, we had a $20 billion year-over-year increase in all other consumer loans combined, the combination of home equity, credit card and personal consumer credit loans, one of the biggest year-over-year dollar increases in our history.  

While demand for home equity product has slowed somewhat from the record levels achieved last year, home equity balances still increased 38% from the first quarter of 2004 and 2.2 billion or 17% annualized on a linked quarter basis.  

In March the Federal Reserve increased the short-term interest rate by .25 for the seventh time since June of 2004. Our home equity group responded by continuing a successful national campaign to increase awareness of an innovative and unique SmartFit Home Equity Account. The SmartFit Home Equity Account gives consumers the option to secure a fixed interest rate for a specified period and make interest only payments.  

Increasing consumer awareness of rising interest rates and the SmartFit Home Equity Account have led to a shift in customer interest from variable-rate products to fixed-rate accounts. Consumers are opting for the certainty of payment in an uncertain interest rate environment.  

In February 2005 $3 out of every $10 of new funded balances was in fixed-rate products, up from $1 out of every $10 in August of 2004. Much of that was due to the success of the SmartFit Home Equity Account which has achieved growth of more than 60% per month since Wells Fargo began marketing the product in October of 2004.  

Now as consumers lock in home equity rates, our credit risk on home equity loans actually declines, but this does not add to our interest rate risk because we have been offsetting this through ARM sales and other actions.  

Home equity portfolio credit quality also remains strong with the average FICO for the portfolio at 722. The average combined loan to values of both the first mortgage outstandings and the second mortgages total committed amount was 68%. However, if you use only the amount outstanding under the first and second mortgages, the average combined LTV drops to 57%. 26.5% of the bank home equity portfolio is in the first lien position, and 39% of the portfolio of dollars in a second lien position were behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage.  

Loss and delinquency rates remained near historic lows, and this housing market remains strong, although growth is expected to slow somewhat in some markets. Home equity credit losses were 20 basis points annualized in the first quarter of 2005 compared with 19 basis points in the prior quarter and 26 basis points in the first quarter of 2004.  

Some industry observers do not expect home equity values to depreciate at 2004's record pace. Nonetheless, last year's growth in home values combined with continued growth in 2005 will provide good momentum from a credit perspective throughout 2005 and may also present new lending opportunities for this and future years.  

We also continue to see strong growth in card fees which were up 16% from last year. Purchased volume on our consumer credit cards was up 18% from the first quarter of 2004, and quarter-end balances were up 12%. Currently 89% of our checking account customers have a debit card, and purchase volume was up 20% from a year ago.  

In late January we launched My Spending Report, a free online tool that allows customers a daily consolidated overview of their personal spending organized by familiar expense categories. Wells Fargo is the first in the industry to offer such a tool which combines spending transactions from a customer's check card, credit card, checking account and bill-pay, accessed through a secured online banking session and updated automatically each day. As of March 31, we have had almost 1.5 million unique customers view their spending report.  

Our Enhanced Rewards program, which provides rewards for both credit and debit usage, has also been very successful. Introduced in April of last year, we enrolled over 200,000 customers by the end of 2004.  

Our mortgage company once again demonstrated its ability to grow in different economic and interest rate environments, as the industry transitioned from a refinance market to more of a purchase market.  

Refi is accounting for only 41% of mortgage applications in the first quarter, down from 56% a year ago. This trend actually plays to our strength as we are the nation's number one mortgage retail originator. We focus on serving our customers, builders and the more than 300,000 real estate professionals we directly conduct business with across the United States. We operate the largest mortgage network in the United States from more than 2300 mortgage and Wells Fargo banking stores and the Internet. We believe our success comes as a direct result of the relationships we build, and that is why more consumers choose Wells Fargo over any other retail lender.  

We had a very strong first quarter, funding about 600,000 residential mortgage loans with a volume of $65 billion, about the same as the first quarter of 2004 volumes. Despite higher interest rates, we took $91 billion of mortgage applications during the quarter, up 14% over fourth quarter of 2004. Our unclosed application pipeline was $59 billion at the quarter-end, up 18% from year-end. And we have continued to manage expenses very closely and tailored our expense base to reflect the transition to a purchase mortgage market.  

In addition, the mortgage servicing side of our business is now adding to profitability as expected in a rising interest rate environment. Net mortgage servicing revenues were up $290 million from a year ago and $22 million on a linked quarter basis. There are several reasons for this.  

First, our owned mortgage servicing portfolio stood at $840 billion at quarter-end, up 16% from the prior year and 17% annualized on a linked quarter basis. We have grown our mortgage servicing portfolio every year since we reentered the servicing business in 1990 even during major refi periods when others saw residential mortgage loan payoffs outpace originations.  

We also announced during the quarter the purchase of $10 billion of mortgage servicing from Commercial Federal of Omaha. We now serve over 5 million customers in all 50 states.  

Second,due to higher rates,the duration of the servicing portfolio increased to 5.1 years from 4.5 years at December 31, 2004. An increase in the life of the servicing means more servicing revenues for a longer period of time and lower MSR amortization costs.  

Finally, with 30-year mortgage rates increasing 26 basis points between year-end and March 31st of 2005, MSR values increased to 1.24% of loans serviced for others, thus triggering a required release of $271 million of MSR valuation allowance into mortgage servicing income.  

The allowance release of $271 million was up slightly from a 234 million release in the prior quarter and compared to a $400 million provision expense to add to the mortgage servicing right valuation reserve a year ago.  

Net derivative gains from hedging the MSRs were $85 million in the quarter compared with $135 million in the prior quarter and $538 million in the first quarter of 2004. So on a combined basis, the hedging gains and reserve releases contributed $356 million to the mortgage servicing revenue in the first quarter of 2005, down $13 million on a linked quarter basis but up $218 million from a year ago. We still had $1.3 billion in the valuation allowance at March 31, 2005.  

Being a financial intermediary, Wells Fargo's interest rate exposure is driven largely by ever-changing customer borrowing and customer depositing behavior. To regulate any evolving interest rate exposure, the Company maintains a portfolio of longer duration fixed-income securities as well as a portfolio of shorter duration adjustable-rate mortgages originated by our mortgage company. While these portfolios serve to offset the natural rate exposure created by our customers, the pacing of any increases and decreases in these portfolios is often driven by market opportunities to enhance long-term yield.  

As an example, during 2002 and 2003, when many other institutions were adding securities for short-term carry profit, Wells Fargo actually shrank its securities portfolio, and we have replenished securities only in those few subsequent quarters when yields were especially high. As a result, Wells Fargo has perhaps the highest investment portfolio yield, 6.26% of any large bank in the U.S. on $30 billion of debt securities. At March 31, 2005, this portfolio had an unrealized gain of $768 million, making us one of the few large banks that even have an unrealized gain.  

During the last year, we sold $35 billion of our lowest yielding previously booked adjustable-rate mortgages and auto loans. Following seven successive increases in short-term rates by the Fed, we began replenishing some of those sales late in the first quarter of 2005 by holding newly originated ARMs with yields 80 to 90 basis points above the book yield of the ARMs that were sold.  

As a result, by the first quarter of this year, we had increased the average yield on $85 billion of first mortgages on the balance sheet to 6%, up from 5.3% a year ago and 5.7% in the fourth quarter of 2004.  

Credit quality remains strong throughout our portfolios with historically low loss rates in most of our wholesale business units, and our consumer credit loss rates remain stable and at the lower end of historical ranges. Net credit losses increased $181 million from the first quarter of last year, but include $163 million in credit losses related to changes in the timing of when credit losses are recognized at Wells Fargo Financial as previously discussed.  

Nonperforming assets were down $167 million from year-end and $206 million from the first quarter of 2004. The 167 million reduction in nonperforming assets on a linked quarter basis primarily reflected lower consumer nonperforming assets due in part to the higher charge-offs at Wells Fargo Financial to conform its credit write-off practices with FFIEC standards and a continued decline in commercial nonperforming assets due to overall economic improvements.  

During the first quarter, we had $71.5 million in net gains from equity investments, down $98.9 million from the fourth quarter of 2004 and down 23.2 million from the first quarter of 2004. While our gains were lower, we still had $162 million in unrealized gains in our public equities portfolio, and we have a total of 1.5 billion invested in private equity securities, giving us many opportunities to recognize gains in the future.  

Our capital ratios continued to improve with our total capital ratio at 12.37% and our leverage ratio at 7.17%. Our capital strength allows us to do positive things for our shareholders -- stock buybacks, small fill-in high return bank acquisitions and over a 3% dividend yield which has grown at a compound annual growth rate of 17% over the past five years.  

During the quarter, we opportunistically bought back 10.4 million shares. With the Board's authorization of 25 million shares in January, 27.6 million shares remained open under board authority at quarter-end.  

In conclusion, we once again realized strong topline and bottom-line growth while taking actions to benefit the future, including continued investments in the franchise. We expect this practice of using strong current results to invest in long-term growth to continue as we improve on executing one of the most diverse customer-focused business models in financial services. This model has consistently generated double-digit revenue and profit growth.  

Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media, Inc.
   AN
Document FNDW000020050503e14j000e8
  


 HD
 Q4  2004 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,764 words
   PD
18 January 2005
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2005 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo fourth quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland and I want to thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo fourth quarter 2004 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our fourth quarter and full-year results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.  

   TD
In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statements and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions including statements about the projected funding needs of and expected funding sources for the Wells Fargo Foundation, the potential gain we believe is inherent in our equity portfolios, the amount of integration expense expected to be incurred in 2005 for the Strong Financial transaction and the pending acquisition of First Community Capital Corporation, the anticipated benefits of balance sheet repositioning actions taken in 2004, and investments made in 2004, the expected investments in 2005 for new stores and additional team members, and the projected time frame for profitability and cost recovery, the ability to continue to grow our home equity portfolio, the future level of mortgage expenses relative to mortgage production levels, and credit loss expectations for 2005.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our fourth quarter results and full-year to our most recent annual and quarterly reports, and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob.  

2004 was another outstanding year for Wells Fargo. Both annual revenue at $30 billion and annual earnings per share at $4.09 were new records for our Company.  

Revenue was up 6%, with combined businesses other than home mortgage up 11%. Our top line and bottom line results reflect a level of growth and a degree of consistency that we believe are unparalleled in our industry.  

We have achieved double-digit compound annual growth rates in revenue, earnings per share, and total stockholder return over the past 5, 10, 15, and 20-year periods. Our double-digit growth in earnings per share and revenue continued in the fourth quarter of 2004 with net income and revenue each growing 10% from the fourth quarter of 2003, and with quarterly revenue growth accelerating from prior 2004 quarters.  

The level and consistency of our growth are not accidental. They reflect the depth and breadth of our more than 80 businesses which tend to add to our competitive growth rate simply because this gives us more opportunities for growth. We have maintained all along that to achieve above-average levels of growth, it's necessary to reinvest in our businesses and in our people as opportunities materialize.  

In addition to incremental investments in new stores, additional sales people, and technology in the fourth quarter, fourth quarter results also included $292 million, or 11 cents per share of significant investments, including $217 million, or 8 cents per share, of special contribution expense for the Wells Fargo Foundation, $44 million, or 2 cents per share, for a special contribution of Wells Fargo common stock to the 401(k) plan for eligible team members, $19 million, or 1 cent per share, in integration expenses related to the Strong Financial transaction, and a $12 million loss connected with our strategy of reducing lower yielding adjustable rate mortgages.  

Let me quickly elaborate on each of these items.  

In the third quarter of 2003, we contributed $191 million of highly appreciated public stock to the Wells Fargo Foundation. And when that stock is sold, Wells Fargo does not pay taxes on the appreciation, it all stays at the Foundation.  

The additional $217 million contribution expense in the fourth quarter of 2004 reflects a commitment to fund the Foundation and is projected to keep the Foundation well funded for at least eight years and possibly much longer, given the potential appreciation of the Foundation's assets.  

This will allow us to continue to support the communities we serve to our mutual benefit well into the future. This commitment is expected to be funded with tax-advantaged securities, largely from our private equity investments, reflecting our confidence in the potential gain inherent in our equity portfolios.  

The total value of our public equity portfolio at year-end was $696 million, up $122 million from September 30, 2004, with most of the increase reflecting additional unrealized gains.  

To recognize the talent and dedication of our exceptional team members who continue to achieve our goal of double-digit earnings per share and revenue growth year after year, we made a special contribution of Wells Fargo common stock to a 401(k) plan for eligible team members equaling 1% of a team member's pay up to a maximum contribution of $750, a total benefit expense of $44 million, or 2 cents per share.  

Given the expensing of stock options, we believe this special 401(k) contribution is a more cost-effective way to ensure that our team members are stockholders, have a piece of the action, and personally benefit from increasing Wells Fargo stockholder returns.  

As previously announced, we also incurred $19 million, or 1 cent a share, in integration expenses related to the Strong Financial transaction that closed on the last day of the year.  

Wells Fargo is now the nation's 20th largest mutual fund company with 120 mutual funds with no load and load options. We currently have more than $650 billion in total assets under management and administration, including $100 billion in mutual fund assets under management.  

In 2005, we expect to incur integration expenses of approximately 2 cents per share to complete the integration of Strong and for our pending acquisition of Houston-based First Community Capital Corporation.  

Significant actions to reposition our balance sheet were undertaken in line with market opportunities in 2004. These actions, which reduced revenue growth by approximately one percentage point in 2004, and reduced earnings per share by 6 cents for the extinguishment of high rate debt alone, were designed to enhance asset yields and to reduce long-term debt costs.  

These actions have already begun to help stabilize the cyclical decline in net interest margin, one of the reasons we continue to have an industry-leading net interest margin. The $12 million loss was taken as part of the strategy early in the fourth quarter.  

During 2004 we made significant investments in new store openings, including 104 new retail banking stores and 73 new consumer finance stores, in adding more than 5,000 team members, including 1800 new retail bankers, and in new technology for electronic imaging, call center, and other tech projects, all of which will help us grow sales and serve our customers more efficiently and more effectively.  

Since these initiatives occurred progressively during 2004, or were skewed toward the latter part of the year, their cumulative impact was more pronounced on both year-over-year and linked quarter expense growth in the fourth quarter of 2004 than in previous quarters. We expect to continue to invest in stores and team members with customer contact in 2005.  

While some observers believe that significant investment spend and positive operating leverage are mutually exclusive, we believe that they go hand in hand. In view of our long history of making prudent investments for growth, while economizing on expenditures in non-growth activities, 2004 revenue grew 6% while expenses grew only 2% inclusive of all investment spending and repositioning impacts.  

Let me now turn to the key areas where we are experiencing such solid growth.  

Community bankings' sales growth continues to accelerate. Each month in 2004 our retail banking business sold at least one million core products, something we achieved in only five of the months during 2003. Strong monthly sales resulted in record annual core product sales of 13.9 million, up 18% from 2003.  

Our average retail bank household now has 4.6 products with us, increasing over 50% from the 1998 cross-sell ratio at the time of the Wells-Norwest merger, and up 6% from a year ago. And retail bank households, with eight or more products, our longer term goal, reached 14%. We also increased sales efficiency with sales per banker per day increasing to 4.8, up from 3.5 in 1999.  

Counting the number of products sold is an easy way of identifying sales success, but is not the most important way. All of our incentive programs focus on products and profit. If we are not selling our customers the right products, it will not benefit the customer or us.  

Our average household profit was up 17% in 2004 compared with 2003. We divide our customers into four profit tiers. The number of households in our most profitable tier increased by almost 20% during the year while our least profitable tier decreased by almost 5%.  

Besides growing sales and profits, we also grew our distribution channels opening up 104 new community banking stores, two new stores per week, up 55% from the 67 new stores we opened in 2003, and we expect to open approximately the same number of stores in 2005 as we did in 2004. Our new stores are typically profitable in 18 months, and the cost is fully recovered in 24 months.  

Additionally, we renovated 396 stores in 2004, up 21% from 2003. We also added over 1900 online Internet access computer stations within our stores during the year, helping us train and serve our customers so they can bank online when, where, and how they want to be served.  

Consumer online product sales were up 42% in 2004, and bill pay and presentment customers were up 35%. We also upgraded our ATMs during the year, 96% of which are now Web-enabled.  

And while improved technology will better serve our customers, it is our team members who determine our success. We added 1800 new retail bankers in 2004, up 18% from 2003, and we doubled the number of licensed [audio difficulties].  

But having more team members is not as important as having talented, motivated, and energized team members. Our team member engagement score is now in the 70th percentile in the Gallup database, up from the 56th percentile in 2003.  

This is so important for us because we believe improved team member engagement will result in improved customer service and attrition. We are already seeing results.  

In 2004 we reduced high-value checking account attrition by 6%. We also improved customer wait times by 25% in 2004. All of our consumer banking metrics, sales, average household profit, banker productivity, team member engagement, and customer retention, improved in the fourth quarter of 2004 compared with the fourth quarter of 2003.  

Now let's look at some of the products our team members and community bank are having the most success in selling.  

Purchase volume on our consumer credit cards was up 17% from 2003, and year-end balances were up 14%. Currently 31% of our retail bank's consumer households have a Wells Fargo credit card, up from just 21% in 1999.  

Purchase volume on our consumer debit card was up 21% from 2003. Currently 88% of our checking account customers have a debit card, and 65% of our debit card accounts are active.  

We had strong consumer loan growth throughout the year with average consumer loans up 35 billion, or 24% in the fourth quarter of '04 from the fourth quarter of 2003.  

One of the key drivers of this growth has been home equity. Portfolio growth for home equity increased 45% in 2004 and continued to increase a solid 39% annualized on a linked quarter basis in the fourth quarter of 2004.  

While interest rates have increased, Wells Fargo is well positioned to continue to grow its home equity portfolio. For example, in October we launched an advertising campaign to increase awareness of our Smart Fit Home Equity account which gives consumers the option to fix the interest rate on the account for a specified period of time.  

As a result, the number of accounts sold in November was double the average during the prior three months, and December's totals were nearly twice that of November's. There's about 8.6 trillion of untapped home equity available in the United States, and there is still substantial opportunity to cross-sell to existing Wells Fargo customers.  

Currently, only 13% of Wells Fargo home mortgage households have a home equity product with us compared with the national average of one in three U.S. homeowners with a home equity account. In 2004 cross-sell of home equity to mortgage customers, who also have a bank relationship, reached a new high of 43%.  

Wells Fargo customers who have a home equity account have an average of 8.8 Wells Fargo products, almost double that of non-home equity customers.  

Our home equity portfolio's credit quality remains strong with the average FICO for the portfolio at 724. At year-end average combined loan to value on total line was 70%, and only 59% on the unutilized line. 28% of our home equity portfolio was in a first lien position, and 37% of the portfolio dollars in a second lien position were behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage.  

During 2004 our mortgage company successfully transitioned from a refinance market to more of a purchase market. Given the increase in average adjustable rate and fixed rate mortgage interest rates between 2003 and 2004, mortgage originations in 2004 declined 37% from our industry record setting level of $470 billion in 2003.  

Despite this expected decline, mortgage revenues declined by only $807 million, or 16%, less than half of the origination volume decline demonstrating the benefit of our balanced mortgage business model in which our residential mortgage servicing business and our residential mortgage origination business compliment each other.  

The profitability of the servicing business significantly increased in 2004 due to lower MSR impairment provisioning, as well as growth in the servicing portfolio, which increased 14% during the year, in part due to moderation in prepayments from lower refinancings. In addition, the impact of declining originations and origination revenues was tempered by the mortgage company's ability to lower expenses during 2004, in fact, at a higher rate of reduction than the decline in revenues.  

In the fourth quarter the mortgage company released $234 million of reserves in order to fairly value the MSR asset. Despite the reserve release, the capitalized value of the servicing portfolio at year-end was 1.15% of loans serviced for others, 3 basis points lower than at the end of the third quarter 2004.  

In addition, mortgage expenses increased $75 million in the fourth quarter over the third quarter of 2004, including both production related expenses as well as stepped up technology investment spending in the fourth quarter. Should production levels decline in 2005, expenses can be brought down accordingly. The average note rate declined 15 basis points in 2005 to end the year at a record low 5.75%.  

Wells Fargo Financial, our consumer finance company, had a record year of net income of $507 million, up 12% from 2003. Earnings at our consumer finance company have doubled over the past five years.  

This tremendous growth has been driven by lower-risk real estate and auto secured lending. The real estate secured portfolio grew 63% in 2004 and ended the year at $13 billion.  

Over 90% of the real estate portfolio was in the first position, with average loan to value of 80%, and average FICO of 640. And while we have experienced strong growth in the non-prime real estate market, we still had only a 2% market share in a market that has grown at a 34% compound growth rate over the past six years.  

Auto lending grew 48% in 2004 and ended the year at $10 billion. The level of growth at Wells Fargo Financial is the result of moving from a generalist to a specialist operation and focusing business from smaller unsecured loans to larger secured real estate and auto loans.  

73 new stores were opened in 2004 and we expect to open about the same number in 2005. Wells Fargo Financial also added 2,579 team members, a 16% increase from a year ago.  

Loan losses at Wells Fargo Financial in 2004 were up 28% from a year ago reflecting the strong 39% increase in loans year-over-year. However, loss rates of 2.6% in 2004 actually declined from 3.1% in 2003 reflecting changes in customer and loan mix. We do expect to see losses to continue to increase in 2005 as this high growth portfolio seasons, which is reflected in how we price these products.  

2004 was a strong year for the consumer, but we also grew our small business and wholesale businesses. We increased our small business cross-sale ratio to 2.7, up 8% from 2003.  

At year-end, 49% of our business checking account customers had a business debit card, up from only 34% two years ago. Purchase volume on our small business debit cards was up 60% in 2004 from 2003, and small business credit card purchase volume was up 31% over this same period.  

For the sixth consecutive year, our Wholesale Banking Group had record earnings, and for the third consecutive quarter, commercial and commercial real estate loan growth was broad-based, up 10% from the fourth quarter of 2003, and accelerating to 13% annualized growth in the third quarter of 2004.  

Our middle market loan growth continued to be driven by new borrowers. Demand from existing borrowers stayed relatively flat with line utilization at around 50% at year-end. Loan increases were across a broad spectrum of industries with the manufacturing and wholesale sectors growing the most.  

In addition to growing loans, we were better at penetrating our wholesale customer with our broad commercial product line. Our average wholesale customer now has 5.3 products with us.  

There are a couple of other items I'd like to highlight. In the fourth quarter we successfully completed our solicitation to amend the indenture related to our floating rate convertible notes.  

The amendment eliminated a provision in the indenture that would have prohibited the Company from paying cash upon conversion of these debentures if an event of default existed at the time of conversion. As a result, none of the shares of common stock underlying the debentures currently would be considered outstanding for purposes of calculating earnings per share as the result of the new accounting rules, EITF-04-8.  

Our debt securities continue to trade at attractive levels. In 2004 we completed over $20 billion in debt issuance while capitalizing on market opportunities to reduce our funding costs. The debt was issued at the lowest credit spreads in our Company's history, and because of strong investor demand, five transactions were up-sized to $2.5 billion or larger during the year.  

In addition, we tendered for our high-cost debt in June, further improving our long-term funding costs. We ended the year with strong capital ratios. Our tier 1 ratio was 8.42%, total capital was 12.08%, and our leverage ratio was 7.08%, remaining well capitalized levels despite our strong earning asset growth and despite returning 52% of our annual earnings to shareholders through dividends and share repurchase net of new shares issued for benefit plans.  

Everybody seems to be interested in who holds Fannie and Freddy preferred stock. For some time we have not had an investment in any of the older Fannie or Freddy preferred stock which are currently underwater.  

Finally, although we believe that stock options should not be treated as an expense, we will expense stock options as required beginning this July 1st. Using the modified perspective method of adoption, we estimate the effect of expensing current outstanding options will reduce earnings per share by 3 cents per share for the second half of 2005.  

In summary, 2004 was an outstanding year with record net income, earnings per share, and revenue. These results were achieved while improving operating leverage and making significant investments throughout the year to benefit the future. We begin 2005 with good earnings momentum in our major businesses.  

Thank you for listening, and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020050201e11i00004
  


 HD
 Q3  2004 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,110 words
   PD
19 October 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Mr. Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo third quarter 2004 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our third quarter results, we need to make the standard Securities law disclosure.  

   TD
In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about our future mortgage expenses, the future financial impact on our mortgage business of the transition of the mortgage market from a refinance market to a purchase market, the future number of our commission based mortgage consultants, our growth potential in the home equity market and the future middle market loan demand. The forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our third quarter results, to our most recent annual and quarterly reports, and to information incorporated into those documents. Now, I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. Wells Fargo had another exceptional quarter with 12% earnings growth and earnings per share of $1.02, up 11% from a year ago. We have now achieved double digit earnings per share growth in 12 consecutive quarters, reflecting the continuation of solid performance trends in most of our businesses. As in prior quarters, market opportunities allowed us to build long-term value for our shareholders in the third quarter. Long-term treasury yields declined from over 4.5% at the start of the quarter, to below 4% near the end of the quarter, and corporate debt security spreads relative to U.S. Treasuries narrowed to historically low spreads.  

Taking advantage of these opportunities we sold just under $1 billion of debt securities, realizing a gain of $10 million, and also realized a loss of $35 million in connection with the sale of $3.5 billion of the lowest yielding 3 to 5 year ARMs on our balance sheet. In addition, as a result of the sizable decline in mortgage interest rates, we added $211 million to the MSR impairment allowance. This reduced mortgage servicing income by $130 million net of revenue from hedging ineffectiveness and derivative income excluded from hedge effectiveness. The net effect of all of these actions and items was to reduce third quarter earnings by 6 cents per share. We continue to invest in our businesses.  

We will add about 100 new banking stores and 80 new consumer finance stores this year. Over the past 3 years we have increased our sales force by over 10,000 people and it usually takes about 3 years for a new sales person to obtain a full book of business. The continuation of double digit earnings growth in the third quarter of 2004 is even more noteworthy this particular quarter, because it occurred despite the substantial drop-off from the record mortgage refinancing activity that positively impacted earnings a year ago when mortgage rates were at historical lows and from the second quarter of this year when we had a mini re-fi boomlet. Our ability to consistently achieve double digit earnings growth first and foremost reflects the breadth and the diversity of our business model.  

While important, mortgage is only one of many businesses and many opportunities for growth. To illustrate this point, while home mortgage revenue actually declined $623 million from a year ago, revenue from our businesses other than home mortgage increased 11%. Second, as we've said all along, the mortgage business itself is relatively balanced. While our home mortgage origination declined about 63% from the year-ago peak, revenue from home mortgage only declined 40%. In addition, almost 60% of the mortgage revenue decline from last year was offset by a reduction in mortgage expenses. Even though interest rates declined in the third quarter of 2004 from the second quarter of 2004, mortgage results were lower in the third quarter than in the second quarter. Since this may seem counterintuitive let me elaborate.  

The principal reason for this decline is the intra-quarter pattern of interest rates. Around a general upward trend in interest rates since the middle of 2003, mortgage rates dropped in March of 2004 then rose during the second quarter of 2004 and then fell again during the third quarter, although not back down to the March lows. The initial drop in rates in March produced a surge in mortgage applications which reached $119 billion by the end of the first quarter of 2004 leading to $96 billion in second quarter residential real estate originations. As interest rates increased during the second quarter applications fell to 100 billion by the end of the second quarter of this year resulting in a drop-off in mortgage originations to $68 billion in the third quarter of 2004.  

In addition to reducing origination revenue, the intra-quarter rate pattern also impacted servicing income. The rise in rates during the second quarter of 2004 resulted in an increase in servicing valuation for that quarter, realized through a $585 million release of impairment reserves, while the subsequent decline in rates in the third quarter of 2004 resulted in $211 million increase in the MSR impairment valuation allowance. As a result, the valuation allowance at September 30, 2004, rose to $1.8 billion. The MSR asset was valued at $7.8 billion at September 30, 2004, while 1.18% of loans serviced were others, compared with 1.37% at June 30, 2004. Given our long experience managing a mortgage business over many cycles, the expense base of this business has been intentionally structured so that costs can be reduced as volumes decline. Relative to last year's peak activity in the third quarter of 2003, mortgage expenses were reduced $370 million. On a sequential basis, however, expenses were held relatively flat on the possibility that the intra-quarter decline in mortgage rates would stimulate origination activity. Should this not occur, expenses will be brought down further. The mortgage market is now largely transitioned from a refinance market to a purchase market, which is how we are structuring our mortgage business. In a purchase market, retail originations become more important. Wells Fargo is already the largest retail home mortgage lender in the country, and in August we announced the goal of doubling the number of our commission days home mortgage consultants, currently numbering 10,000, in a move to double our retail market share. As I previously indicated, our other 82 businesses combined produced 11% revenue growth from the third quarter of 2003.  

Let me highlight a few key areas driving this growth. Average loans grew 27% in the third quarter compared to a year ago. Average loan growth was strong across all of our business segments, including 30% growth in community banking, 10% growth in wholesale banking and 45% growth in consumer finance compared with a year ago. Average loans increased 12% annualized on a link quarter basis, lower than the year-over-year rate, due primarily to the ARMs sold in the quarter.  

The loan growth in community banking was driven by residential mortgage, credit cards, home equity, and other evolving credit and installment loan products. Credit card balances were up 11% from a year ago and 16% annualized on a linked quarter basis. Credit card purchases increased 19% from the third quarter of 2003, driven by a 30% increase in new accounts. Currently 30% of our retail households have a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 26% a year ago, and just over 20% at the time of the Wells Fargo/Norwest merger. Average home equity balances were up 45% from a year ago and roughly the same on a linked quarter basis, up 42% annualized, indicating that growth is still strong for this product despite the recent increase in rates. This growth was driven by strong demand combined with lower account attrition.  

While interest rates have increased Wells Fargo is well positioned to continue to grow within the home equity marketplace due to three main factors; First, today's interest rates are still near historic lows and the tax deductibility for many homeowners makes home equity an attractive alternative compared to other forms of financing. Second, home values remain strong. Home equity now represents at least half of the net worth of most American households. Third, while more consumers are accepting home equity as a smart financing option, only 1 in 3 homeowners currently hold a home equity line or loan. Only 20% of Wells Fargo homeowners have a home equity product with Wells Fargo. This provides significant opportunities for continued quality growth.  

Commercial loan growth this quarter was once again broad-based across virtually all of our segments including small business, middle market, commercial real estate, leasing, trade finance, and asset based lending. The 12% year-over-year growth in middle market loans was primarily from new relationships, while line usage from existing customers remained virtually unchanged at 50%. The growth came primarily from California and the border states of Arizona and Texas, with no particular industry concentrations. Competition for loan volume is very intense. While this has put some pressure on pricing, we have maintained our high underwriting standards. We have added over 650 new middle market customers this year, making us the #1 provider of financial services to middle market companies in our footprint according to a leading independent research firm.  

The middle market loan pipeline remains active in October. Foothill, our leading asset-based lender, also had broad-based growth from new and existing customers in the third quarter. Wells Fargo Financial, our consumer finance company, continued to achieve strong loan growth in their real estate secured auto finance and credit card portfolios. This growth has been the result of changes that have taken place over the past few years. First, there is a continued focus on growth and acceptable ROAs. In the past Financial focused more on their higher ROA unsecured lending businesses and did not fully capitalize on growth opportunities in the lower ROA but faster growing, real estate and auto secured lending segments. Wells Fargo Financial implemented risk based pricing which enabled them to expand their customer base to near prime.  

Many operational changes were implemented which have enabled them to grow faster with the proper controls. For example, collections in underwriting, which were done in individual stores, are now done centrally. This allows sales people at the stores to concentrate more on sales and servicing the clients. Wells Fargo Financial has also been adding team members with an additional 2460 team members from a year ago, up 16%.  

In community banking, our retail banking businesses remain strong in the third quarter. Core product sales increased 17% year-over-year to a record 3.81 million products. We have now achieved 9 consecutive months of selling more than 1 million core products monthly. By comparison, in 2003, there were only 5 months in which we sold at least 1 million core products. Since last September we have increased the number of retail bankers by 1700, a 17% increase, while maintaining our sales productivity at 5.1 core sales per banker per day. Excluding mortgage escrow deposits, community banking grew average core deposits 11% from the third quarter of 2003 and 8% annualized from the second quarter of 2004. Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.5 billion or 13% from a year ago. Consumer checking accounts were up a net 6% from a year ago due to our focused selling efforts. We saw strong double digit annualized revenue growth on a linked quarter basis in our regional banking group. Virtually all regions reported strong revenue growth including California, border banking, Nevada, Texas, Great Lakes, Northwest, the desert mountain states and the rocky mountain regions.  

Let me conclude with a few remarks about the strength of our balance sheet. With respect to credit quality, nonperforming assets at $1.569 billion were down $150 million or 9% from a year ago, with $47 million of this decline occurring just in the past quarter. At quarter end, nonperforming assets were only 0.56% of total loans, the lowest level since the Wells Fargo/Norwest merger in 1998. Credit losses remained at the low end of expected ranges, with charge offs declining 4% from a year ago. Loss rates continued to track at historic lows and were among the best in the industry at quarter end. Consumer loan loss rates of 0.67% were flat with the second quarter of 2004 and down from 0.85% in the third quarter of 2003. Loss rates for our commercial and commercial real estate loans were 0.34% of loans, essentially flat with the second quarter of 2004 and down from 0.58% in the third quarter of 2003.  

Our fast growing home equity portfolio had lower losses, a loss rate of 12 basis points for the third quarter of 2003, compared with 19 basis points in the second quarter of 2004 and 13 basis points in the third quarter of 2003. This portfolio continues to perform better than expected with an average combined loan to value in the low 70s, assuming the entire home equity line is drawn down. Based only on the drawn portion of the line, the combined loan to value is in the low 60s. This marked the third quarter of exceptional credit results in our wholesale business units.  

Wholesale banking net charge offs for the third quarter of 2004 were only $7 million, down from $60 million in the third quarter of 2003, and $20 million on a linked quarter. Wells Fargo Financial's losses were higher than a year ago reflecting the strong 45% growth in loans at that business year-over-year. However, loss rates of 2.63% in the third quarter of 2004 declined from 3.06% in the third quarter of 2003 reflecting changes in customer and loan mix. The Company's net interest margin rose to 4.89% in the third quarter of 2004 up 6 basis points from the second quarter of 2004. This was the first time in the past 10 quarters that our net interest margin increased.  

Since we don't take a lot of interest rate risk with our balance sheet, trends in our net interest margin tend to be more influenced by our evolving business mix than by the direction of rates, although the repositioning actions we've taken in the past few quarters did have a positive impact on net interest margin in the third quarter. The unrealized gain on our bond portfolios at September 30, 2004, was $1.3 billion. We believe per dollar of bonds, that the unrealized gain was one of the highest in financial services at quarter end. After shedding our lowest yielding ARMs, the average yield on our $89 billion of residential mortgage loans on our balance sheet, largely adjustable rate mortgages with remaining durations of less than 3 years, was 5.5% at quarter end. Given the further narrowing of spreads for Wells Fargo debt securities in the third quarter, we accelerated our financing plan issuing $7.2 billion of intermediate and long-term debt in the third quarter of 2004 to lock in attractive costs. Our private equity portfolios cost basis declined to 1.5 billion at September 30, 2004, largely because we have realized more cash on prior investments than we've made in new investments. And the $482 million of public equity portfolio had an unrealized gain of $92 million at September 30, 2004.  

During the quarter we purchased about 5 million of our own shares bringing the year-to-date total of share repurchase to 24 million shares. We have over 17 million shares remaining in buyback authority at quarter end. In July, we increased our quarterly common stock dividend payment to 48 cents a share. Since 1998 our dividend payment has increased a compound annual growth rate of 16%.  

In summary we are pleased with another excellent quarter of solid results, the 12th consecutive quarter of double digit earnings per share growth. These results were driven by broad-based revenue growth in businesses other than home mortgage, improved credit quality, and strong deposit and loan growth, including double digit commercial loan growth in our middle market segment. Thank you for listening. And if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | nfact : Factiva Filters | nfcpex : FC&E Executive News Filter | nfcpin : FC&E Industry News Filter | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020041102e0aj000jo
  


 HD
 Q2  2004 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,390 words
   PD
20 July 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo's second-quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello and thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo second-quarter 2004 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our second-quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including statements about the expected benefits of the balance sheet, repositioning actions taken in the quarter; a possibility of future actions to improve asset yields or reduce long-term funding costs; the impact of interest rate changes on mortgage operations including originations, production costs, servicing rights and hedging losses; various statements about future credit losses and credit quality; and the impact of rising interest rates on the ability of consumers to pay higher interest costs.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our second-quarter results, to our most recent annual and quarterly reports and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now, I will turn it over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, EVP, CFO, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks Bob. Wells Fargo had another great quarter earning $1.7 billion or $1.00 per share in the second quarter of 2004. Earnings per share grew 11 percent from a year ago. We have now achieved double-digit earnings per share growth in 11 consecutive quarters. The quarter was characterized not only by double-digit earnings growth, but also by broad-based revenue growth, strong credit quality, and a long anticipated emergence of commercial loan growth. The $1.00 per share earned in the second quarter compared with $1.03 per share earned in the first quarter of 2004. Second-quarter results include just under 1 cent of combined bond and equity investment gains whereas the prior quarter contained 5 cents of market sensitive gains.  

As indicated in our quarterly press release, second-quarter earnings were negatively impacted by $398 million of pretax or 14 cents in earnings per share due to certain balance sheet actions we took during the quarter to enhance future yields on our earning assets and to further reduce the cost of our already very low long-term cost of funds.  

Let me liberate on why we undertook these repositioning actions and their impact on second-quarter results. Historically, Wells Fargo has enjoyed one of the highest earning asset yields among large U.S. banks and one of the lowest cost of funds. Our wide margin is a reflection of our business mix and financial strength, not a fundamental bet (ph) on interest rates. On the asset side of our balance sheet, we enjoy proportionally greater amounts of loans whose returns are high relative to their risk; and on the deposit side of our balance sheet, we have proportionally more noninterest checking in low-cost, low-interest core deposits in our overall funding mix the most thanks.  

Additionally, because of our consistent financial strength, as reflected in Wells Fargo Bank's singled AAA rating among U.S. banks, our new issuance debt costs are currently one of the lowest of any large financial institution. Every so often, opportunities arise in the market to take advantage of particularly volatile interest rates for the long-term benefit of our shareholders. Second quarter was one such period. The ten-year T-bond rate moved from a low of 3.7 percent towards the latter part of the first quarter of 2004, to an inter-quarter high of over 4.8 percent in the second quarter of 2004, before settling back down somewhat at the end of the second quarter. And mortgage asset spreads widened as rates generally moved up.  

During the quarter, we undertook several important actions to take advantage of that volatility. On the asset side of our balance sheet, we sold $3.5 billion of securities, largely mortgage-backed securities, with yields below 4 percent, and $10.5 billion of 3 and 5-year adjustable rate mortgages also with yields below 4 percent. These actions largely cleared out the lowest yielding mortgage related assets from our balance sheet. We were pleased about 80 percent of the sales with newer mortgage-backed securities yielding close to 6 percent, and retained some of the lower (ph) yielding adjustable rate mortgages, most recently originated by our mortgage company. Instead of replacing all of the assets that were sold with new securities, we repurchased our own debt securities after market rates ran up through a tender offer.  

As previously disclosed, this very successful transaction allowed us to retire $2.4 billion of previously issued long-term debt that had a weighted average coupon of 6.2 percent, well above the companies cost of new long-term debt; more than two percent above the yield on the securities and loans that were sold, and 5 percent above our core current short-term market funding costs.  

The impact in the second quarter of these various actions was a reduction in pre-tax income of $398 million comprised of $222 million on the assets sold, consisting of $61 million in bond losses and $161 million in losses on mortgage loans sales, reflected in mortgage fee income. And a $176 million loss to complete the tender offer on our long-term debt reflected in non-interest expenses. These particular actions represented an extremely effective way from a tax and capital perspective of enhancing future asset yields and further reducing our long-term average cost of funds.  

In combination with continued growth in core checking deposits, as well as actions taken between mid 2003 and early 2004 to lengthen funding maturities, the second quarter balance sheet repositioning transactions left the Company overall with little net change in its essentially neutral economic interest rate profile. To the extent markets remain as volatile as they were in the second quarter, we may take advantage of additional opportunities to further improve asset yields and/or reduce long-term funding cost in future quarters.  

As we have discussed with investors in the past, a rising rate environment resulting from an improving economy will benefit many businesses at Wells Fargo. Commercial loan growth is just one example. On a linked-quarter basis, average commercial and commercial real estate loans were up $2.3 billion, or 11 percent annualized. Our commercial loans outstanding have been relatively flat for several years, but still outpaced the overall industry which declined during this period. This is the first quarter we have seen strong commercial loan growth in nearly 3 years. This growth came from virtually all commercial customer segments including middle market, commercial real estate, leasing, trade finance, asset base lending and small-business.  

Loans to midsize companies have grown 10 percent annualized since year-end 2003. This growth to middle market companies was broad-based by geography and industry.  

We continued to see signs of improvement in business sentiment and the economy across our region. The May 2004 Wells Fargo Gallup Survey of small business sentiments showed increased optimism among small business owners with the index rising from 93 to 100. To put the latest results in context, a score of 0 reflects an equal number of small business owners who are optimistic and pessimistic about their company's situation. The index tracks 6 key measures for both current and future expectations; current financial situation, revenues, cash flow, capital spending, number of jobs, and credit availability.  

Net income in our wholesale and commercial banking business grew 12 percent in the second quarter compared with the second quarter of 2003, and for the quarter represented 22 percent of Wells Fargo's overall profits, driven primarily by a 10 percent increase in fee income and improved credit quality.  

Cross-sell in this business now stands at 5 products for middle market and large corporate customers. Let me highlight a cross-sell success story. Revenue from Acordia, our commercial insurance brokerage business, was up 8 percent in the second quarter of 2004, compared with the second quarter of 2003. Roughly 15 percent of this revenue growth was the result of cross-selling Acordia products to our existing Wells Fargo commercial customers.  

Recent surveys also indicate we continue to gain market share in our treasury management business. Within our 23 banking states, our leading market share of middle market treasury management business increased from 22 percent in the year 2000 to 26 percent currently. Among upper middle market companies, we were the only bank among our peers to grow market share nationally between 2002 and 2004.  

During the quarter, we agreed to purchase $27 billion in mutual fund assets and 7 billion in institutional investment accounts from Strong Financial. The asset management businesses of Strong Financial includes 70 mutual funds and serve 870,000 active accounts. The expanded investment products and capabilities we will gain with Strong will increase fee revenue and cross-sell opportunities for Wells Fargo.  

We now turn to Community Banking. Our retail banking businesses remained strong in the second quarter. Core product sales increased 16 percent in the second quarter, year-over-year to a record 3.45 million products. Since last June, we've increased the number of retail bankers by 1600, up 17 percent while we maintained our strong sales productivity at 4.9 core sales per banker per day. Excluding mortgage escrow deposits, Community Banking grew average core deposits 12 percent in the second quarter of 2003, and 14 percent annualized from the first quarter of 2004.  

Average consumer checking account balances grew $5.5 billion, or 13 percent from a year ago, and $2.4 billion or 21 percent annualized on a linked-quarter basis. This strong deposit growth was driven by a favorable combination of our success in sales of new checking accounts, higher balances per account and improved customer retention. Specifically, consumer checking accounts were up a net 4.7 percent from a year ago, due to our focused selling efforts. Despite higher interest rates and improved stock market performance, average balances per account increased 8 percent from the second quarter of last year, in part reflecting our success in building higher net worth customers and growing relationships. And our continued focus on customer service and reducing the attrition of team numbers and customers resulted in lower checking account attrition which was down 20 percent from January 2002 among high-value customers; attrition has improved nearly 33 percent.  

The level of team member engagement helps reduce customer attrition. We know that without engaged team numbers we will not have engaged customers. In California in 2000, we had 2 actively engaged team numbers for one -- every 1 actively disengaged team number. In 2003, we had almost 5 actively engaged team numbers for every 1 actively disengaged, a huge improvement and much better than the Gallup National Financial Industry database average of two actively engaged employees for every 1 actively disengaged.  

Our consumer debit and credit card businesses saw solid growth in the second quarter. 87 percent our checking account customers now have a Wells Fargo debit card and they increased their purchases made on their debit cards by 23 percent during the second quarter compared to a year ago. 29 percent of our consumer households have a Wells Fargo credit card, up from 26 percent a year ago. Credit card purchases increased 12 percent over the same time period.  

Consumer loan growth remained strong in the second quarter. Credit cards, home equity, home mortgage, revolving credit and installment loan products all grew in the quarter. On a consolidated basis, average consumer loans increased 7.3 billion or 18 percent annualized on a linked-quarter basis.  

We continue to bring customers online with 48 percent of our consumer customer base now using wellsfargo.com and approximately 65 percent of our middle market and large corporate customers using our online portal to commercial electronic office. At quarter end, we had 5.6 million active online customers, up 30 percent from a year ago; and 1.9 million bill pay customers, up 36 percent from a year ago. We had 485,000 active online small business customers, up 37 percent from last year. These customers also bought more online with consumer product sales up 62 percent, small business product sales up 50 percent, and revenue from wholesale products up 36 percent year-to-date through May compared with the same period last year.  

Mortgage banking revenue and mortgage banking expenses were up in the second quarter. Despite the increase in interest rates during the second quarter, mortgage production revenue actually increased somewhat as the $72 billion in application pipeline at the start of the quarter was processed and funded during the second quarter.  

At quarter end, the application pipeline had declined to a still relatively high $57 billion and despite the decline in refinancing activity during the second quarter, we continued to see strong purchase mortgage demand through our retail system. In addition to somewhat higher production revenue, servicing income was also up during the quarter due to growth in our servicing portfolios and due to higher interest rates.  

Servicing fees net of amortization and provision increased $295 million in the quarter, including a net $375 million impact from a $585 million release of the MSR valuation allowance, net of $210 million of hedge in effectiveness.  

The servicing side of our mortgage business became even more valuable in the second quarter. Total owned servicing at quarter end stood at $749 billion and has grown consistently each quarter, up 18 percent from $633 billion in servicing a year ago, and up 13 percent annualized from the $725 billion in servicing at the end of the first quarter.  

The duration of the servicing portfolio increased to approximately 6 years from 4.1 years at the end of the first quarter. The weighted average note rate of our owned servicing declined to a record low of 5.75 percent, with a very narrow range of note rates around that weighted average.  

At quarter end, the MSR valuation allowance remained at a relatively high $1.6 billion, and if rates continue to go up, we would expect lower hedging losses on our servicing and many of our competitors since we do not hedge the entire servicing portfolio. Should interest rates decline again, servicing values could decrease, but in that environment, we would expect increased refinancing demand and higher origination revenue.  

Mortgage expenses increased in the second quarter, due to higher production costs on originated volume, and increased temporary support to process the $96 billion in second quarter 2004 organizations. Should origination volume decline, production expenses will also decline, and we expect to be able to reduce temporary support expenses well. In fact, temporary help has already declined from an intra-quarter peak of approximately 3200 FTEs to 2600 FTEs at quarter end.  

Credit losses remained at the low end of expected ranges and among the best in the industry. With total chargeoffs declining by $25 million or 6 percent from a year ago, and nonperforming assets for the Company declining $140 million or 8 percent from a year ago, given the growth in our loan portfolios and large lower chargeoffs, loss ratios have declined to 0.59 percent of average total loans, the lowest loss rate since prior to the 1998 Norwest Wells Fargo merger. However, as we have said in past quarters, we could see some seasoning of our high-growth consumer portfolios including home equity and consumer finance.  

While we remain very comfortable with the performance of our credit, it was necessary to increase the allowance for loan losses at Wells Fargo Financial by $50 million during the quarter, given the sustained growth in their consumer loan portfolios. Wells Fargo Financials loan portfolio has grown 46 percent from the second quarter of 2003, while their net loss rate has declined from 3.11 percent in the second quarter of 2003, to 2.28 percent in the second quarter of 2004.  

With the recent FED rate increase, there has been a lot of media coverage concerning consumer's ability to pay higher interest charges on their variable-rate borrowings. We believe that if the rising rates are associated with an improving economy and stronger employment, personal disposable income will also be increasing, minimizing the impact of monthly payment increases. For example, Wells Fargo's Home Equity line bank customers have an average loan balance of around $40,000. A 100 basis point increase in rates would result in only a tax-deductible $33.00 increase in monthly payments, a manageable increase if employment remains strong.  

Furthermore, our bank home equity portfolio has good credit metrics with an average FICO of 720 and an average combined first and second mortgage loan to value of around 70 percent. This assumes that the entire home equity line is drawn. If you only look at actual outstanding balances drawn on the home equity line, the combined loan to value is around 60 percent. In addition, 27 percent of the bank home equity portfolio is in a first lien position. And 34 percent of the portfolio dollars in a second lien position are behind a Wells Fargo first mortgage.  

Finally, our private equity portfolio's cost basis remained at $1.7 billion at June 30, 2004, and the $468 million public equity portfolio had an unrealized gain of $289 million at June 30, 2004, up from $163 million at March 31, 2004. Unrealized gains on our debt securities were $864 million at June 30, compared to 1.46 billion at March 31, 2004.  

In summary, we are pleased with yet another excellent quarter of solid results, the 11th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth. These results were driven by broad-based revenue growth, improved credit quality, and strong deposit and loan growth including commercial loan growth in the middle market segment. We believe the balance sheet repositioning opportunities we realized in the second quarter will help improve profitability going forward.  

Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | gussec : Securities and Exchange Commission | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | gcat : Political/General News | ginda : Independent Agencies/Regulatory Bodies | gpir : Politics/International Relations | gpol : Domestic Politics | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040803e07k0008h
  


 HD
 Q1  2004 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
2,930 words
   PD
20 April 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo first-quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR OF IR, WELLS FARGO CORPORATION: Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo first-quarter 2004 earnings review prerecorded call. Before we talk about our first-quarter results we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions including statements about future gains on our private and public equity securities portfolio; second-quarter 2004 mortgage originations and average mortgage loans held for sale; the expected benefits from investments in our business; various statements about future credit losses and credit quality; and California and other regional economic trends.  

   TD
Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future; they are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today which includes the press release announcing our first-quarter results to our most recent annual and quarterly reports and to information incorporated into those documents. Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, EVP, WELLS FARGO CORPORATION: Thanks, Bob. I am pleased to report that Wells Fargo earned a record $1.8 billion or $1.03 per share in the first-quarter of 2004. Earnings per share grew 17 percent from the 88 cents per share earned a year ago. The first quarter was the 11th consecutive quarter of record profits and earnings per share. We also now achieved double-digit earnings per share growth in 10 consecutive quarters with a compound annual growth rate of 17.5 percent over this time period.  

The quarter was characterized not only by higher double-digit earnings growth but also by improved operating leverage, stronger credit quality, higher returns and an ever stronger balance sheet. Operating leverage improved year-over-year with revenue growing at 7 percent and expenses at only 2 percent resulting in an efficiency ratio of 56.4 percent, an improvement from the 60.5 percent last quarter and 59.2 percent a year ago.  

Credit quality remained among the best in the industry with charge offs declining to $404 million from $415 million a year ago and nonperforming assets declining 9 percent from a year ago. Given the growth in our loan portfolios and lower charge offs loss ratios have declined to .63 percent of average total loans, the lowest loss rate since prior to the 1998 Norwest/Wells Fargo merger. Our return on assets was 1.84 percent and return on equity was 20.31 percent; the highest returns we've realized since the Norwest/Wells Fargo merger, and reflecting our solid growth, wider risk adjusted margin and capital management efficiency. Even with the 10 percent annualized growth in our total assets since December 31, 2003, and even after repurchasing 13 million Wells Fargo shares during the quarter, our capital position strengthened with tangible leverage ratio increasing to 7.1 percent at March 31, 2004, up from 6.9 percent at year-end 2003.  

We are beginning to see clearer signs in our business flows of an improving economy across our products across our regions. UCLA's latest economic forecast for California concludes that the worst is over and that the California economy is improving. State's residential market continues to grow with rising prices and new construction permits at their highest level in more than a decade. Unlike recent quarters which were led primarily by mortgage and consumer lending, our first-quarter 2004 results were broader-based; in part because of the improving economy and, more importantly, because of our successful cross sell efforts. Apart from home mortgage, which I will discuss in a moment, combined revenue growth from all our other businesses accelerated to 15 percent in the first quarter from a year ago.  

Let me mention a few key business producing this growth. Average commercial and commercial real estate loans increased $1.4 billion or 6 percent annualized from the fourth-quarter of 2003. Approximately $550 million of that increase was due to the first full quarter of the Pacific Northwest Bank acquisition completed late last year. Most of the same-store loan growth came from new customers as we increased our share of business relationships.  

While credit demand from our existing wholesale customer base has been more modest, generally speaking our customers seem to have more confidence on the economy. Commercial real estate loans, equipment leasing and construction loans were all up again in the quarter. We are encouraged by the loan growth in our small-business group, Business Direct, which serves businesses with revenue under $2 million.  

Total loans outstanding were up 17 percent during the first-quarter compared to the first-quarter of 2003. The dollar volume of new loan commitments made by the Business Direct were up 48 percent during the same period reflecting better economic activity as well as our renewed focus on cross sell in the small-business segment. Merchant card transaction volume picked up sharply in the quarter. Business debit card volume was up 69 percent and credit card volume was up 34 percent year-over-year, although both on a relatively small base.  

Trust and investment management fees increased 16 percent to $535 million from $460 million a year ago and fee income accelerated on a linked quarter basis. In part this reflected the recent strength of the stock market and in part it reflected the success we've had in integrating the several small acquisitions we've made in the past few years like Montgomery Asset Management last year. More fundamentally though, growth entrusted investment management fees reflected the more recent success we've had in building and managing our private client service business.  

Overall in private client services revenue was up 20 percent from a year ago. Private client deposits were up 53 percent and private client loans up 18 percent. Insurance revenues of $317 million in the first-quarter were up 19 percent from a year ago reflecting a continuation of expanding cross sell of insurance products by Accordia agents through to our commercial customers as well as increased demand for crop and other loan based insurance products, yet another potential indicator of a stronger economy in our regions.  

Trade finance and foreign exchange services expanded in the quarter due to greater export/import activity, growth in new relationships using our foreign exchange services, and greater usage of our online product set. In fact, over 90 percent of our import/export customers now use online services products, up from 75 percent last year.  

Indeed online banking continued to help all of our businesses grow. At quarter end we had 5.2 million active online customers, up 33 percent from a year ago, and 1.8 million bill pay customers, up 34 percent. We had 450,000 active online small-business customers, up 44 percent from last year. These customers bought more online with consumer product sales up 78 percent, small-business product sales up 40 percent, and revenue from wholesale products up 37 percent in the first-quarter, all compared to the first-quarter of last year.  

Our consumer businesses remained very strong. Core product sales increased 23 percent in the first-quarter to 3.24 million products. In part this sales growth was the result of increasing our retail bankers by 10 percent or an additional 1,000 bankers from a year ago while at the same time our banker productivity measured by sales per banker per day increased 10 percent to 4.88 core product sales per day.  

We continue to have strong growth in the number of net new consumer checking accounts, a foundational product in building customer relationships which were up 5 percent from a year ago. We are selling more deposit products and saw increased average deposit balances. Excluding mortgage escrow balances, which were down due to lower origination volumes, community banking grew average core deposits 11 percent from the first-quarter of 2003 and 8 percent annualized from the fourth-quarter of 2003. Average consumer checking account balances grew 12 percent both from first-quarter 2003 and on a linked quarter basis annualized. Despite the increase in stock prices we have not yet seen signs of this intermediation. In fact, deposit inflows in the month of March were a record for that month and were the fifth highest monthly amount ever.  

We also had strong growth in both our consumer debit and consumer credit card businesses. 87 percent of our checking account customers now have a debit card and they increased their purchases made on their debit cards by 24 percent during the first-quarter compared to the first-quarter of 2003. 28 percent of our consumer households have a Wells Fargo credit card up from 25 percent a year ago. Credit card purchases increased 14 percent over this time period. Consumer loan growth remained strong in the first quarter. In addition to credit cards, home equity, home mortgage, revolving credit and installed load products all grew in the quarter. On a combined basis these consumer loan products increased $57 billion or 52 percent from the first-quarter of 2003.  

While we have had substantial growth in consumer loans, consumer credit quality remains strong with all categories having performed better than expected. If interest rates continue to increase we would expect less turnover and therefore more normal seasoning of our loss rates and our high-growth home equity and consumer finance portfolios as these loans remain outstanding for longer periods instead of being refinanced as they have in the last two years. We're also seeing lower credit and residual losses on auto leases as used car prices have firmed and as our underwriting standards have tightened.  

Current and future growth should benefit from investments we have made in our businesses. For example, during the past three years we have increased total salespeople by 8,700, mostly in community banking. We have completed about 25 percent of the net new 100 stores planned for 2004 and we are on plan to finish most of this effort in the third-quarter this year. These stores will primarily be in Southern California, Texas and other high-growth markets.  

We also have plans to remodel over 260 of our existing banking stores this year. During the first-quarter we spent an additional $27 million in software expenses to improve the functionality and customer service at the phone bank and to reduce ongoing administrative costs throughout the company. We continued to focus on training, retraining, and incenting our tellers so they can better identify the financial needs of the customers they serve. Currently one-third of our core sales to our consumer banking customers are the result of teller referrals.  

Let me now turn to mortgage banking. After record mortgage originations in the second-quarter of 2003, mortgage applications slowed late last year as higher interest rates reduced refi activity and this slowdown in volume continued into the early part of the first-quarter of 2004. As a result the average mortgage warehouse declined $33 billion from a year ago and mortgage origination fees declined to $178 million in the first-quarter from $276 million a year ago. Given our extensive experience in managing the mortgage business over many cycles, we were very prepared for these expected declines and had already taken steps in the latter part of 2003 to maintain profitability by reducing staff and expenses.  

As mortgage rates dropped again by the end of the first-quarter our mortgage servicing right valuation policy led us to increase temporary provision for servicing impairment by $400 million. As a result the combination of servicing income and net gains on mortgage origination and sales was $86 million in the first-quarter of 2004 compared with $326 million in the fourth-quarter of 2003 and $194 million a year ago. As a result of the $400 million temporary impairment as well as a $169 million permanent impairment MSR write-down we took in the quarter, the MSR valuation allowance stood at $2.2 billion at March 31st. The ratio of mortgage servicing rights to related mortgage loans serviced for others was reduced to 1 percent down from 1.15 percent at year and the weighted average note rate on our owned servicing portfolio was at a record low of 5.84 percent.  

The decline in mortgage rates during March also led to yet another round of refi activity. Our mortgage company took $60 billion in applications during March, the fifth highest month ever. With an unclosed mortgage pipeline of $72 billion at quarter end, the third highest quarter and pipeline in our history, mortgage originations and average mortgage loans held for sale in the second-quarter should be higher than in the first-quarter. Our MSR and pipeline hedging programs continued to work very effectively throughout the quarter despite the volatile interest rate environment and strong refi activity. Home mortgage expenses continued to decline in the first-quarter, down $115 million from a year ago and down $250 million on a linked quarter basis. And despite higher application volume, temporary staff was indeed reduced by 800 people from year end.  

As interest rates have risen since the end of the quarter, I would like to remind investors that for the last two years we have substantially reduced the size and the duration of our investment portfolio. In addition, we took steps to lengthen our funding at the low point in rates last year and additional steps to lengthen our funding in the first-quarter of 2004.  

Debt to capital market demand for our long-term debt instruments remains very strong. During the first-quarter we completed a $6 billion global debt offering which was the first true global offering issued by Wells Fargo and the largest financing ever done by a financial institution. Non-U.S. participation in this offering was almost 25 percent, double the normal rate, indicating that Wells Fargo is earning an international reputation for quality and growth. In addition, earlier this monthly we issued $500 million of retail preferred securities at 5.625 percent, one of the lowest rates ever issued for such securities.  

During the quarter we realized $95 million of pretax gains on our equity investments; approximately half of these gains were from our private equity portfolio and half from our public equity portfolio. Given the strength of the equity markets and the significant actions we have taken in the last two years to write down both our private and public equities, we are encouraged by the quality of the portfolio and would expect additional gains going forward although not necessarily the same amount each quarter as we realized in the first-quarter. Our private equity portfolio had a cost basis of $1.7 billion and the $577 million public equity portfolio had an unrealized gain of $163 million at quarter end.  

In conclusion we are very pleased with another quarter of extremely solid results. The emerging strength from the economy and our continued focus on satisfying all of our customers' financial needs while helping them succeed financially has once again resulted in double-digit earnings per share and profit growth. Our growth record was recently recognized by Forbes magazine when it ranked Wells Fargo 25th among the world's leading companies based on revenue, profits, assets and market value. Thank you for listening and if you have any questions please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. ]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media
   AN
Document FNDW000020040504e04k0005q
  


 HD
 Q4  2003 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Presentation - Final  
   WC
3,061 words
   PD
20 January 2004
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2004 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
BOB STRICKLAND, INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo fourth-quarter 2003 earnings review call. Before we talk about our fourth quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including statements about the expected benefits from certain actions taken in the quarter, the potential value of our mortgage servicing portfolio, future expense reductions if mortgage originations remain at lower levels, future gains on our private and public equity portfolio, and regional economic trends. Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of these factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our fourth-quarter results and our most recent annual and quarterly reports, and to the information incorporated into those documents. Now, I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AND EVP, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. I am pleased to report that Wells Fargo earned $1.6 billion or 95 cents per share in the fourth quarter of 2003, up 10 percent from the 86 cents per share earned a year ago. The 95 cents per share represents another record result, and is the tenth consecutive quarter of record earnings per share. Once again, the Company's earnings per share growth was driven principally by year-over-year revenue growth of 12 percent. For the year, we earned a record $3.65 a share, up 10 percent. Topline revenue grew 12.4 percent on top of 13 percent last year. Our return on equity was 19.4 percent. Although revenue growth in the fourth quarter slowed somewhat on a linked-quarter basis due to the anticipated impact of higher interest rates on mortgage refinance activity, earnings per share growth on a linked-quarter basis actually accelerated somewhat, proving once again the value of our diversified business model. Indeed, our double-digit earnings per share growth occurred despite a number of actions we took in the quarter that reduced the quarter's earnings per share by 5 cents, but which will benefit future earnings. I will highlight those actions throughout this call.  

Let me illustrate the diversity of our earnings sources by highlighting trends in a few of our businesses. First, mortgage. Mortgage originations peaked in the third quarter. With the subsequent increase in mortgage rates, mortgage originations, as anticipated, slowed down from a record $151 (ph) billion in the third quarter of 2003 to $71 billion in the fourth quarter. While originations fell from lower refinance activity, the purchased mortgage market continues to be strong, and our business model continued to produce the results we anticipated in terms of bottom-line contribution. Given our balanced mortgage banking model, we have said all along that should refi activity diminish in a higher rate environment, revenues from the servicing side of our mortgage business would expand as mortgage pre-payments slowed. And we've also said all along that mortgage expenses would be brought down as volumes decreased. This is exactly how things played out in the fourth quarter. The cyclical nature of the mortgage origination business is not new to us, and we have structured the business model with a dynamic cost structure through the use of a commissioned sales force and the use of temporary and contract labor to meet the peaks in demand.  

We are already realizing the expense savings we have been anticipating. Mortgage non-interest expenses were down $181 million from the third quarter, primarily due to lower commissions paid to mortgage originators, which is directly tied to the level of origination volume, and a reduction in temporary and contract labor. At the peak of the refi cycle, we had about 10,000 temps working at the mortgage company. As of December 31, 2003, that number was down to 2,500. If origination volume remains at these lower levels, we would expect further expense reduction over the next several quarters. Although with the recent dip in interest rates, mortgage originations have begun to pick up again. The natural offset to the decline in originations is an increase in servicing income, which increased by $394 million in this quarter over last quarter, significantly offsetting a $531 million decline in origination-related non-interest income. As the average note rate of our portfolio declined to 5.9 percent and the duration of our servicing portfolio increased to 51 months, the mortgage servicing right amortization expense decreased to $459 million, down $113 million from the third quarter. Given the increase in the size and duration of the $710 billion of our servicing portfolio, the potential value of this servicing asset has increased substantially.  

Mortgage revenue and profitability in the quarter were negatively impacted by two decisions we made. First, we decided to hold instead of sell approximately $7 billion of higher-yielding short and intermediate maturity mortgages as part of our corporate asset liability strategy. This has the effect of reducing the amount of gains we would normally have immediately recorded on the sale of these types of mortgages. Second, we decided to change the way we record income on interest rate lock commitments on mortgages held for sale. We now recognize the business margin associated with interest rate lock commitments at the time of sale instead of at the time of funding. While we expect the SEC to require implementation of this change for the industry beginning in April of this year, we made the change effective December 31, 2003. The result of this change was a onetime $77 million reduction in non-interest income recorded as net gains on mortgage loan origination sales activities. In other words, gains we would have recorded in the fourth quarter if our recognition method had not changed from the third quarter. Again, our balanced mortgage banking business model is working exactly as anticipated.  

Apart from our residential mortgage business, total revenue growth in the rest of the Company was 13 percent year-over-year. Almost all of our other 80 or so businesses are contributing to this double-digit growth. Our consumer banking group, for example, continues to better penetrate our customer base. Core product sales increased 15 percent in 2003 to 2.85 million products. That's over 11,000 products per day or 23 core product sales per minute.  

We continue to add more bankers and stores to better serve our customers. In the fourth quarter, we completed our first two banking acquisitions of the year, Pacific Northwest Bancorp and the Bank of Grand Junction. These deals added 60 stores and over 700 team members in Washington, Oregon and Colorado.  

Consumer loan growth remains strong across virtually all types of consumer lending products. To cite a few, home equity loans grew 30 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002, while credit card loans increased 12 percent. In addition, small-business direct loans were 17 percent and SPA (ph) loans increased 31 percent. Merchant card services and Internet services also had double-digit revenue growth.  

Deposit growth has also been strong. Average core deposits, excluding a $10 billion decline in mortgage escrow deposits related to mortgage refi activity, increased 11 percent from the fourth quarter of 2002. We note that the latest U.S. money-supply figures showed a decline in the fourth quarter on a seasonally-adjusted basis. We would attribute this in part to the mortgage escrow deposit declines occurring in the industry, as well as a reduction in average balances held by businesses. Indeed, we ourselves have recently seen small-business account deposit balances decline somewhat. Since we are also seeing an increase in small-business loan demand, it's quite possible that the balance decline and increase in borrowings is reflective of an increase in spending on the part of small businesses.  

We are also starting to see increasing optimism from small businesses. The Wells Fargo Gallop Small-business Index, which measures business confidence and overall market confidence, jumped 24 points from 69 to 93 in the January 2004 survey, which was just released on January 14. All regions of the U.S. reported higher scores. These results revealed stronger revenues and increased cash flow among small-business owners. Most of the firms surveyed also pointed to improved financial situations, higher capital spending and more credit availability as key factors underlying their rebound in confidence. Hopefully if this trend continues, we could see a further increase in orders for new goods and services, leading to job creation among small businesses. Consumer credit quality remains strong in the fourth quarter. However, with over 16 billion in consumer loans outstanding -- added in 2003 alone -- it would not be unreasonable to assume there would be upward movement in the future in our dollar losses and our high-growth retail loan portfolios as these portfolios season.  

Operating results in our consumer finance business, Wells Fargo Financial, remains solid. Both revenue and earnings grew over 20 percent for the year. This growth was driven by a $3.5 billion increase in real-estate secured lending, and a $2.6 billion increase in auto-secured financing. This receivable growth was achieved while attracting proportionately more prime and near-prime customers, and credit losses remained within expected levels. To achieve the growth potential inherent in this business, Wells Fargo Financial added 1400 store salespeople during the year, increasing the total in-store U.S. sales force by 46 percent. Our wholesale banking group had double-digit revenue and income growth in the fourth quarter of 2003 compared with the fourth quarter of 2002. Offsetting sluggish loan growth, non-interest income was up 19 percent for the year, reflecting in large part our success in cross-selling more to our existing customers and adding new relationships. Although it is too early to call a rebound in commercial loan demand, we are encouraged to have seen some modest growth in the quarter. Average commercial loans were 2.2 billion from the third quarter of 2003. $1.1 billion of this increase was due to the acquisition of Pacific Northwest Bancorp. The same store increase in commercial loans reflected continued strong growth in asset-based lending and some modest increase in lending activity now in our commercial real estate, middle market and small-business direct businesses.  

While the technology sector is still weak, agriculture, manufacturing, wholesaling and foreign trade export sectors showed signs of improvement during the quarter. Many other segments within wholesale banking produced solid results in the quarter, including capital markets, managed partnerships, insurance, trade finance and foreign exchange, asset-based lending and commercial real estate. During the quarter, we realized 143 million of pretax gains on our equity investments, mostly from realized gains in the private equity portfolio. This is the first quarter in which we have had meaningful private equity gains since 2000. Given the actions we have taken to write down these investments during the past two years, and assuming the IPO, M&A and buyout markets remain healthy, we would anticipate additional gains over time on these investments.  

During the quarter, we took a number of actions that reduced earnings per share by 5 cents, but which will help earnings over time.  

These included the following items -- first, we again took advantage of interest rate volatility to reposition the bond portfolio, selling low-yielding securities and adding to the portfolio at higher yields intra-quarter. This resulted in $12 million of bond losses but will help the portfolio yield going forward. Given the historically low level of interest rates, we decided to sell a subprime credit card portfolio, and a $30 million credit loss was recorded to provision expense. In the third quarter, we contributed a substantial amount of highly appreciated equity securities to the Wells Fargo Foundation. And in the fourth quarter, we contributed a small amount, as well, resulting in a $7 million charitable contribution expense. As part of our effort to streamline operations, we incurred integration, consolidation and severance costs largely associated with re-sizing the mortgage business for lower origination volumes. We also incurred additional expenses related to the implementation of our strategy to consolidate a multiple bank charter. The impact of our streamlining efforts resulted in a net reduction in net income before tax of $62 million. Finally, we consolidated certain company-owned properties and wrote down certain leased space in order to reduce future occupancy costs. These actions reduced net income before taxes by $19 million. In total, the actions taken during the quarter reduced revenue by 14 million, increased expenses by 115 million and had a bottom-line impact reducing net income after all taxes and tax benefits by $84 million or 5 cents per share.  

I wanted to briefly mention one other accounting change that we reported on Friday through amendments of previous SEC filings. Based on prior fine guidance from the Emerging Issues Task Force, we determined it was appropriate to present certain auto leases as operating leases in our financial statements instead of as direct financing leases. This change reduced loans and increased other assets on our balance sheet by $3.7 billion dollars. It had no impact on diluted earnings per share for any year after 2000 and only a 1 cent reduction in diluted earnings per share during 2000.  

Just a few words on current regional economic trends. Much of our 23-state banking franchise is near recovery or already in recovery. All areas are improving. In California, overall conditions seem to be improving, including now in the northern part of the state. The unemployment rate declined to 5.7 percent in December, the lowest level since early 2002. Nevada and Las Vegas, in particular, remain growth leaders. We are blessed with high population growth areas. And as indicated in my earlier comments, small-business activity and optimism seems to be picking up.  

In conclusion, we not only had a great quarter, we had a great year, highlighted by our double-digit earnings per share and double-digit revenue growth. By executing on our vision of satisfying all of our customers' financial needs, we have also achieved double-digit earnings per share and double-digit revenue growth over the past ten years. Since 1993, our earnings per share have grown at a compound annual rate of 13 percent and our revenue has also grown at a compound annual rate of 13 percent. Recognizing this consistent double-digit growth in earnings and revenue, our stock price reached a record high in the quarter, resulting in a total market capitalization exceeding $100 billion for the first time. Only about 20 other U.S. companies have a market cap exceeding $100 billion.  

As we begin 2004, our 152nd year of serving our customers' financial needs, we are optimistic that we will earn even more of our customers' financial business by selling them the products they need and providing them with outstanding customer service.  

Thank you for listening and if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, the Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2004, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2004 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2004 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | niwe : IWE Filter
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   AN
Document FNDW000020040203e01k000gv
  


 HD
 Q3  2003 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,188 words
   PD
21 October 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings recorded call. At this time, I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, director of Investor Relations.  

   TD
BOB STRICKLAND, INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO: Hello. This is Bob Strickland, and thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo third quarter 2003 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our third quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure. In today's call, we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items, and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition, including -- statements about the expected benefits from certain strategic actions taken in the quarter; mortgage servicing income and the potential value of our mortgage servicing portfolio; commercial loan growth; our target capital ratios; and the impact of the adoption of FIN 46. Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees, and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our third quarter results; our Form 10-Q for the second quarter 2003 and Form 10-K for 2002, and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, WELLS FARGO: Thank you, Bob. I'm pleased to report that Wells Fargo earned $1,561,000,000, or 92 cents per share, in the third quarter of 2003, up 10 percent from the 84 cents a share earned a year ago. Third quarter results were negatively affected by 10 cents per share due to certain actions we took in the quarter to take advantage of interest rates and equity markets, which will benefit future earnings. We'll discuss these strategic actions in a moment. The 92 cents per share represents another record result, and is the 9th consecutive quarter of double-digit earnings per share growth. We are pleased with both the strength and the consistency of these results.  

As indicated in the quarterly press release, the Company's earnings per share growth was driven principally by year-over-year revenue growth of 19 percent. Revenue growth continued to be driven by strong consumer loan growth across virtually all types of consumer lending products. In addition, the deposit inflows remain strong, with average core deposit growth of 17 percent year-over-year, including 32 percent growth in consumer and business non-interest-bearing checking accounts. Excluding all mortgage escrow accounts, these deposit growth rates were 12 percent and 18 percent, respectively. With mortgage applications at record levels at the end of the second quarter, we expected and got strong mortgage results in the third quarter. While mortgage activity has slowed since the midyear refinancing peak, applications are still running at reasonably high levels, with an application pipeline of $62 billion at the start of the fourth quarter.  

Our asset management business is now growing nicely. Trust and investment fees were up 9 percent year-over-year and 29 percent annualized, on a linked quarter basis -- in line with the recent rally in equity markets -- as well as our ongoing success building our investment management business organically and through fill-in acquisitions. So far this year we've added over 100 private bankers and almost 400 Series 7 licensed bankers, and we are well on our way toward achieving the staffing goals in these areas. The newly acquired Montgomery Asset Management has begun to contribute to overall investment management results, as well. We continue to have great success cross-selling insurance into our middle market customer base. Insurance brokerage fees at Acordia, the largest bank owned insurance holding company in the United States, were up were up 9 percent year-over-year. Credit cards, merchant card business, capital markets, foreign exchange, real estate brokerage and asset-based lending all benefited from increased activity in each of these businesses.  

Consumer finance earnings were up 32 percent year-over-year, driven by 36 percent receivable growth within our same prudent underwriting disciplines and prudent business practices. The one soft spot in our business mix continued to be commercial loans, which remained essentially flat. Despite recent evidence of a pickup in business activity in many of our regional markets, we have yet to see that translated into renewed commercial loan demand. We believe our commercial loan portfolio has substantial upside potential, perhaps more so than at comparable stages in previous economic cycles. Average commercial line utilization is about 5 percent below average usage two years ago, and during that same period we've been adding to the number of commercial relationships doing business with Wells Fargo. Should national commercial loan demand pick up, we believe the competition of increased line usage on a higher base of accounts could be very powerful in terms of the quality commercial loan growth.  

I would like to concentrate my remaining remarks on two important aspects of our third quarter results. First, I'll describe in some detail the strategic actions we took during the quarter to take advantage of current markets, especially interest rates and equity markets. Second, I'll separately go over a number of important aspects of our residential mortgage banking business.  

Wells Fargo has always tried to take advantage of market conditions that, although they may hurt short-term results, will be more than made up for by benefits in the longer term. In the third quarter we took a number of important strategic actions consistent with this approach. First, we repositioned our bond portfolio for higher yield and we repaid previously issued high-cost term debt. Taking advantage of unusually volatile interest rate movements during the quarter, we repositioned the bond portfolio by selling approximately 4 billion of intermediate and longer duration mortgage-related securities, with an average yield of about four percent, and when rates were higher intra-quarter, buying mortgage-backed securities at substantially higher yields. By undertaking this action, we realized $23 million in bond losses, eliminating substantially all of the publicly traded mortgage-related securities in the available for sale fixed-income portfolio with embedded losses at the time of the sale. And enhancing the yield on our bond portfolio above what it would have been if we had retained those securities. As of September 30, the net unrealized gain on the bond portfolio overall was just under $1.4 billion. Also taking advantage of interest rate movements, we retired $1.8 billion of previously issued intermediate term debt with an average cost of just under 5 percent. This particular action reduced fourth quarter non-interest income by $125 million, but it will also enhance near-term net interest income and net interest margin.  

Secondly, with the rapid run-up in the stock market since midyear, we decided to contribute selected highly appreciated stocks -- approximately 40 percent of our public equity portfolio -- to the Wells Fargo Foundation. This is a very tax efficient way of funding our charitable giving and will reduce the need to incur expenses to fund the Foundation going forward, while significantly reducing our investment exposure to public equities. This action impacted a number of different aspects of our income statement. It generated $48 million of equity gains -- in other words, most of the $58 million in total equity gains earned by the Company in the quarter; it also resulted in $191 million of donation expense, since the stock is contributed at current market value; and in total, it reduced the Company's pre-tax earnings by $143 million and net income after tax in the third quarter by $48 million -- inclusive of all net tax benefits. Given the very low tax bases of the donated stocks relative to market, the tax benefit realized on the donation of these particular stocks had the effect of reducing our corporate effective tax rate in the quarter and for the year. Again, this tax benefit is already included in the net reduction in earnings reported from all of the strategic actions we took.  

Next, a number of important actions were taken to improve operating efficiency going forward by consolidating facilities and operations. One of our partially leased corporate facilities in Southern California was sold on favorable terms and an accrual was established for the announced closing of one of our processing sites in Texas, which was part of a strategy to consolidate processing operations in fewer locations. These actions will reduce the amount of owned facilities by approximately 1.7 million square feet. We also incurred systems and other expenses in the quarter to implement our strategy to consolidate our multiple bank charters into a much smaller number of legal entities. We expect to incur additional expense to complete this effort in the next few quarters. The charter consolidation will lead to a reduction in overhead and regulatory expense. Taken together, the impact of all of these actions to consolidate facilities and operations amounted to a net reduction in net income before tax of $23 million. Finally, several vendor contracts were renegotiated to more favorable terms. The cost of renegotiating contracts added $19 million to expenses in the third quarter, and will result in ongoing reductions to equipment and software licensing going forward.  

In total, the strategic actions taken during the quarter reduced revenues by $100 million, increased expenses by $233 million and had a bottom-line impact of reducing net income after all taxes and tax benefits by $171 million, or 10 cents per share. As reported, 4 percent of the third quarter efficiency ratio was attributable to these actions.  

Let me now turn to the mortgage business. Our residential mortgage business remained robust in the third quarter. We entered the third quarter with record applications, which resulted in record originations of $151 billion in the third quarter. With the recent backup in mortgage interest rates, application volumes have declined, but even at September 30, 2003 (indiscernible) the level of $62 billion, the fourth quarter started with a relatively high level of applications in the pipeline. We would expect to see a slowdown in applications due to the sharply reduced refinancings if interest rates continue to rise from current levels. Residential mortgage banking growth since last year has had a significant impact on the Company's total revenue growth, but a much smaller impact on consolidated net income growth. About 58 percent of the Company's total year-over-year revenue growth -- in other words, 11 percentage points of the reported 19 percent growth -- was due to residential mortgage. This was driven by strong residential mortgage banking fees, which were up 302 million, or 64 percent, since last year, and an increase in the mortgage warehouse. The average volume of mortgage loans held for sale rose $31 billion from the third quarter of 2002 to the third quarter of 2003. Since we substantially reduced the amount of mortgage securities in our bond portfolio during the last year as the mortgage warehouse was growing, we have significant capacity to add to the securities portfolio should the warehouse mortgage decline.  

72 percent of the year-over-year increase in residential mortgage revenue was offset by increased mortgage company expenses, which accounted for 47 percent of the consolidated company's year-over-year expense growth. These mortgage expenses, which supported the record volume of originations, include production bonuses, sales commissions, overtime and temporary help. They are largely variable costs which would be expected to come down should application and processing volumes slow. Residential mortgage net income growth from a year ago was $108 million -- in other words, less than the $171 million after-tax impact of the strategic actions taken in the third quarter. Both the residential mortgage results and the impact of the strategic actions are included in our community banking business, and are only two of the many drivers of profitability in that business. If interest rates remain high and income from the origination part of our mortgage business slows, not only would we expect to see a reduction in origination-related expenses but we would also expect to see an increase in income from the servicing part of our mortgage business. Indeed, mortgage servicing income has already begun to increase, with the third quarter servicing income up about $76 million from a year ago. With the average life of the servicing portfolio doubling from 21 months to 43 months between the second and third quarters of 2003, we would expect to see a continuation of reduced servicing amortization and reduced need for further impairment provisioning if interest rates remain at or above September 30 levels. The carrying value of mortgage servicing rights on the balance sheet increased from 3.8 billion at June 30, 2003, to 5.8 billion at September 30, 2003. Of this $2 billion increase, $1.7 billion was attributable to real growth in the servicing book of business. The 1.7 billion was comprised of purchased servicing, newly originated servicing, less the amortization of existing servicing. The remaining increase in the capitalized mortgage servicing right reflected a $238 million required reversal in the impairment valuation reserve, due to the impact of higher interest rates on the value of the MSR offsetting in the profit and loss statement $206 million of net hedge losses that were also due to higher interest rates. Our total owned servicing portfolio now stands at $674 billion, up 18 percent from a year ago. Due to the record refinancing volume in the last several quarters, we have replaced higher note rate loans with lower note rate loans. The average coupon (technical difficulty) 5.98 percent at the end of the quarter, the lowest average note rate we've ever had. The cost (indiscernible) servicing portfolio is comprised of servicing originated at the lowest mortgage rates in 40 years, and because long-term rates have began to increase, the expected duration of our servicing portfolio doubled to 43 months. And the reserve for our potential mortgage servicing impairment stood at $1.8 billion after all required and appropriate charges to the reserve in the third quarter. Given the increase in size and duration of the servicing portfolio and given our disciplined approach to hedging, the potential value of this asset has increased substantially. So in sum, mortgage banking had a great quarter in the third quarter, but should we see a slowdown in origination income from that business line, we would expect to reduce variable costs and we would expect to see enhanced servicing income from a larger and more valuable servicing portfolio.  

Some final comments. As previously reported, Moody's upgraded Wells Fargo Bank to AAA in the third quarter. We are the only large bank in the United States to have the highest Moody's rating. Even though Wells Fargo debt already traded at a premium to virtually every other large issuer financial institution, our debt costs have actually improved another 3 to 5 basis points following this upgrade. We believe the upgrade reflects the value of our business model, and we are very pleased with the distinction accorded to Wells Fargo. Standard & Poor's also upgraded our debt rating in early October. Second, the Company increased its common stock dividend in the third quarter by 50 percent to 45 cents per share. We do not anticipate changing our overall well-capitalized target capital ratios and we have continued to buy back shares. During the quarter, we bought approximately 7 million shares, netting approximately $31 million under open board authority. On October 16, Wells Fargo received approval from the Federal Reserve Board to complete the announced acquisitions of Pacific Northwest Bancorp and Two Rivers Grand Junction. These are important bank acquisitions in our footprint and we welcome the employees and customers of those banks to Wells Fargo. Finally, with respect to FIN 46, FASB announced a delay in implementing FIN 46 several weeks ago. Our third quarter results have not been adjusted, but we will adopt FIN 46 when it is finalized. As previously disclosed, its adoption will not have a material impact on our financial statements.  

Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020031104dzal0005l
  


 HD
 Q2  2003 Wells  Fargo  & Company Earnings Conference Call - Final  
   WC
3,906 words
   PD
15 July 2003
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
(c) Copyright 2003 CCBN and FDCH e-Media.  

   LP
OPERATOR: Good morning and welcome to the Wells Fargo second quarter earnings recorded call. At this time I would like to turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations.  

BOB STRICKLAND, DIRECTOR OF INVESTOR RELATIONS, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello. Thank you for calling into the Wells Fargo second quarter 2003 earnings review recorded call. Before we talk about our second quarter results, we need to make the standard securities law disclosure.  

   TD
In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial conditions, including statements about the likelihood of future losses on our equity investments, the value of our mortgage servicing rights and the amounts of our mortgage loans held for sale relative to changes in interest rates, credit quality of our loan portfolios, including the adequacy of our allowance for loan losses, the expected third quarter 2003 level of our mortgage warehouse and the expected earnings growth of our consumer finance company.  

Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees and results may differ from expectations. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made, and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date.  

For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings, including the 8-K filed today, which includes the press release announcing our second quarter results, our form 10-Q for the first quarter 2003, and our form 10-K for 2002 and to information incorporated into those documents.  

Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins.  

HOWARD ATKINS, CFO, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thanks, Bob. The big news this quarter is we did it again.  

Double-digit top line revenue growth, double-digit bottom line earnings per share growth and improved credit quality. We believe we are one of the few large banks whose growth accelerated in the second quarter while its risk profile continued to improve.  

In an uncertain economy, that kind of strong and consistent growth is quite an achievement. It reflects the diversity of our businesses, the value of our customer centric business model and the increasingly successful efforts of our 139,000 team members to cross-sell and serve the more than 20 million customers that do business with Wells Fargo.  

Wells Fargo earned 90 cents per diluted share in the second quarter. That is the eighth consecutive quarter of record earnings per share, up 10% from a year ago. Revenues were up a solid 12% for the quarter.  

Before explaining how and why we are achieving such strong growth, let me mention several things that were done in the quarter to further strengthen our overall financial position. First, the 90 cents of earnings per share earned included a net loss of 1 cent on debt and equity investments comprised of $47 million net loss on equity investments and $20 million in bond gains.  

During the last eight quarters, the book value of our private and public equity portfolios was reduced from a peak of $4.1 billion to $2.2 billion at June 30th, 2003, which is now less than 1% of total Wells Fargo assets. Given the actions we have already taken, we believe we may be at the end of the line, so to speak, with respect to any remaining issues in the equity portfolios.  

And baring a significant reversal in the equity markets, we do not anticipate the need to take any additional losses. The public equity portfolio of $527 million at the end of the second quarter had an unrealized gain of $83 million.  

Second, we took a $620 million provision for mortgage servicing rights impairment during the quarter that reduced our capitalized mortgage servicing rights by almost $400 million from $4.2 billion at the end of the first quarter to $3.8 billion at the end of the second quarter. Since the beginning of 2002 we reduced mortgage servicing rights by $2.4 billion.  

At quarter end mortgage servicing rights net of the mortgage valuation allowance of $2.6 billion were .73% of related mortgage loans serviced for others, down from 1.6% in the first quarter of 2002. If long-term interest rates continue to rise as they have in the last month, we could actually see mortgage servicing right values increase, which could reduce or even eliminate the need for more such provisioning at a time when mortgage refi activity may be slowing.  

Third, in order to keep our interest rate profile relatively neutral, we continue to reduce our mortgage backed securities portfolio and lengthen the duration of our funding somewhat during the quarter. The total available for sale securities portfolio stood at $24.6 billion at quarter end, down $19 billion, or 43%, from a peak of $44 billion in early 2000.  

Should long-term interest rates continue to increase, we will have increased our capacity to grow net interest revenue from the investment portfolio at a time when the mortgage warehouse might be declining.  

The bond portfolio had a $1.5 billion unrealized gain at quarter end. During the quarter the company significantly improved its long-term liquidity through the issuance of $11 billion of long-term debt and bank notes.  

Included in that amount was the placement of a one of a kind $3 billion, 30-year convertible debt security. This was the largest convertible with the highest conversion premium ever issued by a financial institution.  

Wells Fargo's debt now trades at a premium to virtually every other large financial institution in the world, reflecting investors' confidence in the consistency and financial strength of the company. Both Moody's and S&P have placed our debt on watch for possible upgrade and for the third consecutive year Euro "Money" magazine named Wells Fargo the best financial global borrower.  

Before returning to our growth story, let me mention one other key aspect of our strong balance sheet. Our credit quality remains within satisfactory ranges, and if anything, improved during the second quarter.  

While net chargeoffs were essentially flat with the first quarter of 2003, our loss rates improved from both the first quarter of 2003 and the second quarter of 2002. Second quarter losses of .81% of loans were down from .87% of loans in the first quarter of 2003 and are at the lowest level since the second quarter of 2000.  

Net credit losses on commercial loans declined $7 million, or 6% on a linked quarter basis and declined $20 million, or 15% year-over-year. Consumer loan losses were essentially flat on a linked quarter basis despite the continued double-digit growth in various consumer loan portfolios. Consumer loss rate and delinquencies remained within ranges that we view as expected and manageable.  

Non-performing assets for the company were down $102 million, or 5% from a year ago and were flat from the first quarter of 2003. The $49 million linked quarter decline in commercial non-performing assets was due to the active management and resolution of four problem credits.  

The $41 million linked quarter increase in non-performing assets in the commercial real estate portfolio was due primarily to a single non-accrual office building located on the East Coast. And the $22 million increase in non-performing assets for our home equity portfolio was due to normal seasoning in this high growth portfolio and was within normal expected quarterly variances.  

As mentioned last quarter, given our strong loan growth, it is helpful to view non-performing assets as a percent of total loans. Non-performing assets as June 30th, 2003 were .82% of total loans, down from 1.01% at June 30th, 2002 and down from .86% on a linked quarter basis. And again, the lowest level since the third quarter of 2000.  

In our consumer loan portfolio, 30-day delinquencies improved from the second quarter of 2002 and were consistent with first quarter results.  

Our loan loss reserves remain very strong. At the end of the second quarter our $3.9 billion loan loss reserves were 1.8% of total loans, 249% of non-performing loans and 230% of annualized second quarter net chargeoffs.  

We remain very pleased with the performance of our well diversified loan portfolio and credit quality metrics remained within expected and manageable ranges and consistent with current economic conditions.  

Returning to our growth trends, total revenue grew 12% year-over-year. In fact, despite the equity losses and the mortgage impairment provision and the actions taken to lengthen funding, year-over-year revenue growth actually accelerated in the quarter from year-over-year revenue growth during the first quarter of 2003 and linked quarter revenue grew 15% annualized.  

Revenue growth was once again broad-based with revenue increasing solidly in virtually all of our businesses, both spread income and fee income expanded in the quarter.  

Let me discuss the principal sources of growth during the second quarter.  

First, community banking. Community banking revenues grew 14% year-over-year. Core sales to banking households increased to 4.3 products during the quarter. Our target is 8 products per household, and already 12% of our customers have 8 or more products and 35% have 5 or more.  

Let me give you a few examples of the key product sales to consumers during the quarter. Average total loans in our community banking group were up $26 billion, or 23% year-over-year and up $8 billion or 24% annualized on a linked quarter basis.  

Home equity loan and line balances were up 28% from the second quarter of 2002. Once again they led community banking loan growth. We maintained our number one national ranking in home equity, which has become, as many of you know from personal experience, the consumers debt consolidation product of choice. Home equity is abundant, easy to access, and has relatively low after tax cost.  

We continue to make great progress in selling home equity to both our mortgage and banking customers. About 10% of our 4 million mortgage customers now have a home equity product with Wells Fargo. And that's up from 7% in March of 2002 and up 9% from the beginning of this year.  

Through our banking stores we now have sold a home equity product to approximately 16.5% of our traditional banking customers who own homes, up from about 14% a year ago. We also now sell more home equity loans through the Internet than any other provider in the country. Internet profitability is comparable to that of the other home equity chance.  

Other consumer lending products are also strong. For example, credit card outstandings in our community bank increased 9% from a year ago. This growth is all from our own customers and is not a function of one off national marketing campaigns, which we do not do.  

We added 241,000 new credit card accounts in the second quarter of 2003, a 23% increase over the second quarter of 2002 new credit card accounts. Only one in four of our 10 million banking households have a Wells Fargo credit card, while three of four have a debit card. So, we've got a huge opportunity to increase fee revenue by putting a credit and debit card in every customer's wallet.  

We've also increased our direct consumer installment debt in community banking by $3.5 billion or 26% from second quarter 2002, primarily due to recent acquisitions of some high quality secured loan portfolios with an average remaining maturity of less than two years and with rates of return in the high teens.  

Also, our residential adjustable rate mortgages increased $4 billion on average from the first quarter of 2003. Most of these prime adjustable rate mortgages are relationship loans to high cross-sell customers and the rest are short duration ARMs originated by our mortgage company and held instead of being sold for gain in lieu of holding longer term fixed rate securities in the investment portfolio.  

Through new product introductions and more effective sales focus, we increased our personal lines and monthly loans to customers by 46% from the second quarter of 2002. Although this is from a small base, it represents renewed growth in this business.  

Another key factor that helped us achieve record growth in the quarter was our mortgage business. Let me mention a few key points.  

We had a record $204 billion in mortgage applications in the quarter, up 30% from the previous high in the first quarter of 2003. A record $135 billion in originations, 20% higher than the former record in the fourth quarter of 2002.  

Retail originations, our most profitable channel, had a higher growth rate in the quarter than correspondent and wholesale originations on both a linked quarter and year-over-year basis. Due to our successful marketing and sales efforts and our larger retail sales force.  

The mortgage warehouse increased $7 billion on average from the first quarter of 2003, ending the quarter at $58 billion. June was our busiest application month ever, and we head into the third quarter with a record application pipeline of $120 billion up $31 billion from this year's first quarter.  

Accordingly, we expect the mortgage warehouse to be at least as high in the third quarter as it was in the second quarter. The record originations in the quarter will translate into more mortgage market share and then even larger owned residential mortgage servicing portfolio.  

The servicing portfolio now stands at $582 billion, up about $100 billion from a year ago. Also, the average note rate on our owned residential servicing portfolio dropped from 6.49% to 6.23% at quarter end.  

This average note rate is at historic lows, and we've reduced capitalized mortgage servicing rights as a percent of related mortgage loans serviced for others to 73 basis points. Accordingly, the incremental value of the servicing portfolio in a rising rate environment has increased from prior periods.  

As interest rates rise, we would anticipate getting an even larger revenue contribution for mortgage servicing as the need for impairment provisioning and accelerated MSR amortization goes away.  

We are extremely pleased with the solid growth in consumer deposits. Community banking core consumer and small business deposit balances were up approximately $22 billion, or 14%, from the second quarter of 2002.  

Excluding savings certificates, community banking, core consumer and small business interest and non-interest bearing savings and checking average balances were up $26 billion or 19% year-over-year. About 40% of the 19% second quarter growth in core deposits was due to mortgage escrow account balances.  

Overall the terrific growth in deposits in the second quarter came from higher average balances, increased sales of primary checking and savings accounts and our effort to reduce customer and depositor attrition.  

In our wholesale banking business revenues increased 1% year-over-year and accelerated to a 4% annualized increase on a linked quarter basis. We continue to increase market share in wholesale banking.  

New relationships in our wholesale banking area increased 6% from the same period a year ago. And this helped boost fee income in our wholesale banking group by 4% in the second quarter of 2002 with virtually all sources of fee-based income growing year-over-year, including capital markets, foreign exchange, cash management, asset-based lending, real estate brokerage and commercial insurance brokerage.  

The growth in foreign exchange revenues reflects the success in selling our foreign exchange online product to our commercial customers. Approximately 6,000 active customers now use our online product to satisfy their foreign exchange needs. This represents a 30% growth in new customers in the past year.  

While improving value to the equity markets and successful efforts to grow customers, the combination of personal and institutional investment management and trust fees increased 9% annualized on a linked quarter basis.  

During the second quarter Wells Fargo completed the acquisition of 11 mutual funds with $1.4 billion of assets under management for Montgomery Asset Management. This acquisition rounded out our fixed income and equity fund lineup and further strengthened our investment management capabilities.  

Company-wide average commercial loans increased a modest 2% from the second quarter of 2002, but were up $477 million or 4% annualized from the first quarter of 2003 due primarily to loan growth in our small business and asset-based lending groups.  

We believe the increased number of middle market commercial accounts we've gained and the deeper relationships we've developed to effective cross-sell positions us well competitively for commercial loan growth with stronger aggregate commercial loan demand eventually materializes.  

Revenue at our consumer finance business increased 20% both year-over-year and linked quarter annualized. Profits in this quarter of $110 million were up 47% from the second quarter of 2002. Profits of $212 million for the first six months increased 33% over the same period last year.  

Receivables in our consumer finance business grew a record $1.7 billion, or 9% unannualized from the first quarter of 2003. More than half of this growth, about $1.2 billion, was from real estate secured and auto secured receivables. In addition, our Canadian consumer finance operation grew its receivables $133 million or 13% from the first quarter of 2003.  

Demand for consumer finance remains robust and our loan growth was assisted by the addition of several new channels of indirect auto loan sourcing, by the implementation of risk based pricing for real estate secured products and the addition of over 1,000 new sales and service team members. Now that irrational competitors are out of the business, we expect Wells Fargo Financial to produce solid double-digit earnings growth in the years ahead.  

Turning to expenses, non-interest expenses were up 17% from the second quarter of 2002. About 70% of the increase in year-over-year expenses and about 80% of the increase in linked quarter expenses supported the strong growth in our residential mortgage products, both first mortgage originations and home equity loans and lines.  

Our consumer finance company, another business experiencing very strong growth, accounted for an additional 9% of the expense growth year-over-year and 6% on a linked quarter basis.  

We remain committed to efficient expense management, particularly in non-labor cost management. But we are also spending wisely and investing for the future. Just a few examples.  

First, in our effort to win the wealth management business of our customers, we are investing heavily in licensing bankers to sell investment products to the mass affluent and hiring new private bankers to serve the affluent in our retail stores. We will license close to 500 personal bankers and add up to 100 private bankers in our stores.  

Second, we have added about 500 Internet access online stations in our retail stores to help us activate more online accounts and teach customers how to use online banking and our bill pay products at Wells Fargo.com.  

And we have recently made our website more accessible to Hispanics when we introduced a Spanish language version of our sight, as well as for the blind and visually impaired. We were recently accorded a National Federation of the Blind Online Seal of Approval for extending a helping hand to visitors who can't see what's on our computer screen. It's all about serving the customer how, when and where they want or need to be served.  

Third quarter, second quarter expenses also included costs to expand or complete a number of technology initiatives to improve customer service and productivity.  

Second quarter included costs for imaging infrastructure to image items at the point of deposit, whether at the teller line or at the ATM, included costs for creating electronic delivery of loan documents for home equity and mortgages, replacing paper and physical delivery, and costs for rolling out a new platform in our stores which provides improved teller efficiency, improved risk controls and improved sales tools and performance monitoring.  

So, in summary, we did it again. Broad-based, double-digit revenue growth, double-digit earnings per share growth and improving credit quality, all while in the Wells Fargo tradition strengthening our financial position.  

Our business model is working. We are meeting the changing financial needs of our customers, we're increasing customer cross-sell and we are improving market share. In view of the strength and consistency of our results as well as recent changes in tax laws, we are evaluating our dividend policy.  

Thank you for listening. And if you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations, at 415-396-0523.  

[CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes.  

In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized.  

THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2003, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.]  

[Copyright: Content copyright 2003 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2003 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.]  

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
c151 : Earnings | ntra : Transcript | c15 : Performance | ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types
   RE
usa : United States | namz : North America
   PUB
FDCH e-Media--Format B
   AN
Document FNDW000020030730dz7f005ha
  


 HD
 Q3  2002 Wells  Fargo  Earnings Pre-Recorded Conference Call - Final 
   WC
3,555 words
   PD
15 October 2002
   ET
12:30 PM GMT
   SN
FD (FAIR DISCLOSURE) WIRE
   SC
FNDW
   LA
English
   CY
 (c) CCBN and FDCH e-Media. All Rights Reserved. 

   LP
 OPERATOR: Welcome to the Wells Fargo third quarter earnings release call. I will now turn the call over to Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations. 

 BOB STRICKLAND, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Hello, this is Bob Strickland. Thank you for calling in to the Wells Fargo third quarter 2002 earnings review pre-recorded call. Before we talk about our third-quarter results we need to make the standard security law disclosure. 

   TD
 In today's call we will make forward-looking statements about specific income statement and balance sheet items and other measures of future results of operations and financial condition including statements about the credit quality of our loan portfolios and the expected fourth quarter level of our mortgage warehouse. Forward-looking statements give our expectations about the future. They are not guarantees. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are made and we do not undertake any obligation to update them to reflect changes that occur after that date. 

 For a discussion of some of the factors that may cause actual results to differ from expectations, refer to our SEC filings including the 8-K filed today, which places on file our third-quarter results, the form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30th, 2002 and the Form 10-K for the year 2001 and to the information incorporated into those documents. 

 Now I will turn the review over to our Chief Financial Officer, Howard Atkins. 

 HOWARD ATKINS, CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER, EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, WELLS FARGO & COMPANY: Thank you, Bob. 

 As indicated in our press release today, Wells Fargo reported another quarter of solid financial performance despite the challenging economy and financial markets. This performance included double-digit growth and diluted earnings per share, the fifth consecutive quarter of record earnings. The sixth consecutive quarter of double-digit revenue growth excluding market sensitive revenue and acquisitions, disciplined and focused expense management and improvement in credit quality. 

 Wells Fargo earned a record 84 cents in diluted earnings per share in the third quarter of 2002, up 12 percent from the 75 cents earnings per share on a comparable basis earned in the third quarter of last year. Excluding the transitional goodwill impairment charge of $276 million after tax, taken in the first quarter of 2002, and also excluding the $1.16 billion of non-cash impairment and other special charges taken in the second quarter of 2001, year-to-date Wells Fargo has earned $2.46 earnings per share an increase of 12 percent from the $2.20 earned in the first nine months of 2001. 

 The results for all periods just described on this call are on the same basis of accounting for goodwill expense. In other words, goodwill amortization is excluded from both 2001 and 2002 in all periods. 

 Before I expand on our consolidated financial performance, I'd like to quickly go over the trends we saw in our key business lines during the third quarter. 

 First community banking. Our community banking business has remained relatively robust despite the recent period of low economic growth. Net income in that business segment increased 15 percent from the third quarter of 2001. Let me provide you with several of the key drivers behind the community banking group's performance. Loan growth, product sales, total revenue and credit quality. 

 First, consumer loan demand was generally strong again in the third quarter, consumer loans in our community banking business increased by $10.5 billion or 26 percent from September 30th, 2001 and $3.4 billion or 28 percent annualized from June 30th, 2002. Home equity loans and lines continue to be very popular with our customers. Home equity loan and line balances in our community banking business grew $2.9 billion or 45 percent annualized from June 30th, 2002. 

 We continue to increase our market share in home equity loans and lines and have the number one market share in the country including number one in California. We are successful in selling home equities through multiple channels at Wells Fargo including our mortgage company which now originates more home equity loans and lines than our banking stores. And through the Internet where we are the number one home equity originator in the country. 

 In addition, credit cards issued in our community banking business increased 13 percent annualized since the second quarter 2002. Our card sales are focused on our 10 million retail households. We currently have a penetration rate of about 23 percent. 

 During the quarter we added 235,000 new credit card accounts and fees were up over 8 percent unannualized from the second quarter of 2002. We also continued to seem good growth in consumer checking and savings products with third quarter unit sales up 14 percent over the prior year. 

 Consumer and small business interests and non-interest bearing checking, market rate, and other savings balances were up approximately $5.3 billion or 16 percent annualized from the second quarter 2002. Reflecting our efforts to increase our customer base and to increase balances among the households and small businesses we already serve. About half of the third quarter growth in core deposits was due to increases in escrow balances associated with the exceptional mortgage activity in the quarter. 

 Apart from being our lowest cost source of funding, primary checking and saving accounts are key to our efforts to increase cross sales because these are the first of several products that customers are likely to buy from Wells Fargo. On a same store basis, sales of retail products from through our banking stores were 16 percent from the third quarter of 2001 to the third quarter of 2002. 

 We also sold one million total products in August. While August is typically a strong sales month because of Back-to-School financial needs, the one million sales this August is particularly noteworthy in view of the weak economic backdrop this year. Excluding market sensitive income and special items, revenue for our retail businesses, including mortgage, home equity, small business banking and private client services increased 18 percent from third quarter 2001 and 16 percent annualized from second quarter 2002. Growth in revenue reflect strong loan demand and increased fee income over this period. 

 In addition to solid and consistent revenue growth consumer credit quality remains remarkably stable despite the soft economy. While the recent deceleration in economic growth or prolonged economic downturn could lead to additional deliquencies or losses at some point, we are encouraged by the quality at consumer portfolio at quarter end. Net credit losses of $210 million in the third quarter in 2002 declined 19 percent from the third quarter of 2001. 

 Moving on to our mortgage business which is part of our community banking group. I'm sure that many of you have already or plan to refinance your mortgage and take advantage of lowest long term rates in 30 years. The average 30-year fixed rate mortgage rate is currently under 6 percent, down approximately 50 bases points from the second quarter of 2002 and about 180 bases points from the peak during the last two years. 

 As you might expect our mortgage business is booming. Last year Wells Fargo mortgage set an industry record with total originations of $202 billion, a market share of just over 9 percent. This year, given record low interest rates, we surpassed that record in only nine months with total refinanced driven mortgage originations of $221 billion. 

 For the third quarter 2002 total mortgage originations were $89 billion , an all-time record of $27 billion from the second quarter of 2002 and we expect more to come in the fourth quarter as our mortgage application pipeline at September 30th, 2002 was a company record $89 billion. Nearly double the $48 billion mortgage application pipeline at June 30th, 2002. 

 Our mortgage model continues to work well. We continue to grow our mortgage servicing portfolio despite the potentially adverse impact of very low mortgage rates on servicing. The reason for that is that we are gaining share by making it simpler and more convenient for existing and new customers to refinance with us rather than someone else. Our own mortgage servicing portfolio has increased 20 percent from December 31st, 2002 to $510 billion at September 30th, 2002. 

 During this same time period and reflecting lower interest rates, we reduced the mortgage servicing rights on our balance sheet by $1.8 billion from $6.2 billion at December 31st, 2001, to $4.4 billion at September 30th, 2002. And the average note rate on our servicing portfolio has dropped from 7.18 percent at December 31, 2001 to 6.87 percent at the end of the third quarter. Mortgage banking revenues including production, servicing and net interest income on the mortgage loan warehouse increased 14 percent unannualized in the third quarter of 2002 from the second quarter of 2002, due to the increase in origination activity and 11.8 billion increase in average mortgage and sales for sale. We expect that the mortgage warehouse will remain high throughout the fourth quarter because of the record 89 billion mortgage application pipeline at the end of the third quarter. 

 At quarter end the mortgage warehouse stood at 42.3 billion, up 17.6 billion from the 24.7 billion mortgage warehouse at June 30th, 2002. Mortgage products are a very important core consumer product for us. First mortgage or home equity product sold to a banking customer increases the retention of that customer and the likelihood of additional product cross sells. 

 We just unveiled our Home Asset Management Account, a product that combines a mortgage and home equity line and a variety of unique features that allows a homeowner to manage the equity in their home much like any other financial asset. A highly respected nationally syndicated journalist who covers the housing industry has called this product as possibly the most significant innovation in the American home mortgage field in more than two decades. 

 Let me now turn to wholesale banking. Growth and profitability of our will commercial and wholesale banking business continued to be challenged by the weak economy and difficult financial market conditions in the third quarter of 2002. Third quarter 2002 revenues, expenses and net income for this business line were essentially flat reletive to a year ago. Commercial loan demand was flat at about $49 billion of outstandings and the weak and volatile financial markets had a slight negative impact on our capital markets and investment management businesses. 

 On the bright side, demand for operating services remain relatively brisk at Wells Fargo driven in part by our market leading Internet product offerings. More than 16,000 of our commercial customers now actively use the commercial electronic office or C.E.O., our online portal providing a single point of entry for all wholesale services. Internet revenues from middle market and large corporate internet customers was up nearly 45 percent from a year ago. As a result, despite the flat loan demand, total revenues from middle marking and large corporate banking customers increased 11 percent year-over-year and 5 percent on a linked quarter basis. 

 We continue to view the commercial market as an opportunity to attract new banking clients and cross sell to existing relationships. As a result of an increase in the number of book referrals between our wholesale business units the average cross sells for our commercial customer improved from 4.6 products in the third quarter of 2001 to 4.8 products in the third quarter of 2002. The number of commercial customers with a cross sell of 8 or more increased 13 percent since the third quarter of 2001. 

 We continue to be encouraged by the credit quality in the commercial and asset base lending portfolios. Nonperforming assets declined $63 million during the third quarter of 2002, and chargeoffs decreased $13 million from the $73 million in the second quarter of 2002 to $60 million in the third quarter of 2002. 

 With that as background now let me turn to the corporate financial results. Net income for the quarter was a record $1.44 billion, or 84 cents per diluted share, versus $1.3 billion or 75 cents per diluted share from a year ago. Net income for the quarter was up 10 percent from last year, earnings per share for the quarter was up 12 percent from last year. The difference in the two growth rates is due to share repurchase activity. 

 In the third quarter of 2002 the company repurchased 16.6 million shares of its common shares. Included in the 84 cents reported to the third quarter is a net loss of $31 million pre-tax for bond and equity investments. 

 With respect to bonds, we realized $121 million in gains in the quarter on the sale of certain longer duration securities, we felt were at slightly extra risk to accelerated prepayments at par if interest rates continued drop. The sale of these securities in the near term has a slight diminishing effect on current interest margin that would, of course, protect the margin in the future if interest rates increase. Offsetting this gain, the company also recorded a $152 million net writedown on equity investments. By contrast with the prior few quarters, in the third quarter the majority of this equity writedown was marking down publicly traded equity securities due to the depressed equity market at quarter end. We believe these securities represent good long term value from current prices. 

 At September 30th, 2002, the combined bond and equity available for sale portfolio had a net unrealized gain of $1.7 billion, up from $1.3 billion at June 30th, 2002. The private equity portfolios stood at $1.65 billion, essentially flat with the June 30th, 2002 level and down from the $1.7 billion at year end 2001. 

 Earnings growth at Wells continues to be driven by three important factors: strong double-digit revenue growth, prudent core expense growth and improvements in credit quality. Let me take you through these in turn. 

 Excluding market sensitive income of acquisitions, total revenue, net interest income and fee income combined, grew 10 percent year-over year for the quarter and 13 percent year-to-date versus last year. Net interest income was up 15 percent from last year. On a linked quarter basis, net interest income was up 6 percent annualized. 

 While commercial loan demand remains flat, and we sold an average of $4.5 billion in fixed income securities in the quarter, average earning assets actually increased $10 billion driven by a $12 billion increase in mortgages held for sale and a $4 billion increase in other customer loans. 

 The exceptional volume of mortgage activity also contributed to a decline in the net interest margin from 5.66 to 5.52 percent since the new mortgage loans held for sale in the third quarter yielded 45 bases points less on average than the mortgage loan held for sale in the second quarter. Based on our record mortgage pipeline of 89 billion at September 30th, 2002, we expect mortgages held for sale to remain high throughout the fourth quarter of 2002. 

 Excluding market sensitive income and acquisitions, fee based income grew 4 percent on a year over year basis. Fee will growth was solid in many of our product lines including deposit service fees, credit card fees, mortgage banking and home equity loans and lines. Despite continued growth in many of these categories, excluding market sensitive revenue, fee based income was essentially flat on a linked quarter basis with the growth in consumer product fees, offsetting weak trust and investment fees and a seasonal decline in insurance revenues from our crop insurance business. 

 Let me now turn to operating expenses. Non-interest expenses, excluding goodwill amortization and the impact of acquisitions, were up about 10 percent from the third quarter of 2001 and essentially flat compared to the second quarter of 2002. Third quarter expenses included $8 million for merger integration. Most of the increase in non-interest expense is attributable to the robust growth in our mortgage and home equity businesses. 

 Excluding expenses in these two businesses, the increase in expenses for the rest of the company from third quarter of 2001 was only 2.6 percent and linked quarter expenses were actually down $93 million. Despite the upward pressure on expenses from healthcare costs and other employee benefits, expense growth at Wells has been contained by our efforts to restrict expenditures to our higher growth businesses. Excluding market sensitive revenue and acquisitions, the efficiency ratio, total expenses divided by total revenue, improved modestly to 54.6 percent in the third quarter of 2002 from the 55 percent in the second quarter of 2002. Let me now turn to credit quality. 

 All of our credit quality metrics improved in the third quarter. Nonperforming assets decreased $126 million in the quarter, principally due to reduced nonperformers in the commercial and real estate construction portfolios. At $1.737 billion, nonperformers were down 7 percent from the second quarter of 2002 ,are now lower than a year ago and are below 1 percent of total loans. The decline in nonperforming assets reflects chargeoffs in the quarter as well as pay downs and restructurings. 

 Net charge off of $415 million in the quarter included $21 million of charges due to the adoption of new delinquency and loss recognition policies in our consumer finance businesses. If you exclude these charges, which were disclosed and already provided for in the second quarter of 2002, net chargeoffs for the third quarter were $394 million, essentially flat with the second quarter and were equal to the $395 million provision taken during the quarter. Net chargeoffs a year ago were $454 million. The total allowance for loan and lease losses of $3.86 billion was 2.1 percent of total loans at September 30th, 2002. 

 While we are pleased with the performance of our diversified loan portfolio, it is, of course, possible that losses could increase if the economy remains weak for a prolonged period of time. 

 So in summary, we are pleased with yet another quarter of double digit growth in both top line revenues and earnings per share. The sixth consecutive quarter of double digit revenue will growth, excluding market sensitive revenues and acquisitions, and the fifth consecutive quarter of record earnings reflecting the diversity and breadth of our businesses and the terrific work of our team members. We are pleased with the improving credit quality in our loan portfolio but recognize that we're still in the midst of a uncertain economy. 

 Thank you for listening. If you have any questions, please call Bob Strickland, Director of Investor Relations at 415-396-0523. 

 [CCBN reserves the right to make changes to documents, content, or other information on this web site without obligation to notify any person of such changes. 

 In the conference calls upon which Event Transcripts are based, companies may make projections or other forward-looking statements regarding a variety of items. Such forward-looking statements are based upon current expectations and involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those stated in any forward-looking statement based on a number of important factors and risks, which are more specifically identified in the companies' most recent SEC filings. Although the companies may indicate and believe that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could prove inaccurate or incorrect and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the results contemplated in the forward-looking statements will be realized. 

 THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN EVENT TRANSCRIPTS IS A TEXTUAL REPRESENTATION OF THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL AND WHILE EFFORTS ARE MADE TO PROVIDE AN ACCURATE TRANSCRIPTION, THERE MAY BE MATERIAL ERRORS, OMISSIONS, OR INACCURACIES IN THE REPORTING OF THE SUBSTANCE OF THE CONFERENCE CALLS. IN NO WAY DOES CCBN ASSUME ANY RESPONSIBILITY FOR ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS MADE BASED UPON THE INFORMATION PROVIDED ON THIS WEB SITE OR IN ANY EVENT TRANSCRIPT. USERS ARE ADVISED TO REVIEW THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S CONFERENCE CALL ITSELF AND THE APPLICABLE COMPANY'S SEC FILINGS BEFORE MAKING ANY INVESTMENT OR OTHER DECISIONS. Copyright 2002, CCBN, Inc. All Rights Reserved.] 

 [Copyright: Content copyright 2002 CCBN, Inc. ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. Electronic format, layout and metadata, copyright 2002 FDCH e-Media, Inc. (f/k/a Federal Document Clearing House, Inc.) ALL RIGHTS RESERVED. No license is granted to the user of this material other than for research. User may not reproduce or redistribute the material except for user's personal or internal use and, in such case, only one copy may be printed, nor shall user use any material for commercial purposes or in any fashion that may infringe upon CCBN's or FDCH e-Media's copyright or other proprietary rights or interests in the material; provided, however, that members of the news media may redistribute limited portions (less than 250 words) of this material without a specific license from CCBN and FDCH e-Media so long as they provide conspicuous attribution to CCBN and FDCH e-Media as the originators and copyright holders of such material. This is not a legal transcript for purposes of litigation.] 

   CO
nwbc : Wells Fargo & Company
   IN
i814 : Banking | i81402 : Commercial Banking | i81501 : Credit Types/Services | i8150103 : Mortgages/Real Estate Credit | ibnk : Banking/Credit
   NS
ccat : Corporate/Industrial News | ncat : Content Types | ntra : Transcript
   RE
namz : North America | usa : United States
   AN
Document fndw000020021024dyaf0033h
  
Search Summary

 Text
rst=fndw and (hd=q1 or hd=q2 or hd=q3 or hd=q4) and hd=fargo not hd=event and co=wfc
   Date
All Dates
   Source
All Sources
   Author
All Authors
   Company
All Companies
   Subject
All Subjects
   Industry
All Industries
   Region
All Regions
   Language
English
   Results Found
54
   Timestamp
6 December 2016 8:55 AM GMT
  
